 Case Number:  24STCV03875    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



CHRISTOPHER ROSALES,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants. 


Case No.:


  24STCV03875




Hearing Date:


November 8, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
METRO’S DEMURRER
  TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT; 
 
METRO’S MOTION
  TO STRIKE THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Christopher Rosales (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February
15, 2024 against a number of defendants, including Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) assault, (2) battery, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(4) negligent hiring, supervision and retention, and (5) negligence. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or
about March 3, 2023 Plaintiff was lawfully attempting to board a train at
Defendants’ Pico/Aliso Station and was stopped by the train operator, Defendant
JOHN DOE. Defendant JOHN DOE denied Plaintiff the ability to board the train
due to items in his possession. As Plaintiff attempted to explain that he had
been able to board the trains on prior occasions with the items in his
possession, Defendant JOHN DOE, suddenly and without warning, physically
attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered
injuries and damages.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Metro”) now demurs to the fourth cause of action of the Complaint and moves
to strike the fourth cause of action from the Complaint. Plaintiff opposes
both. 
Demurrer 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f)¿.) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to
label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant
cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2¿.) However, “¿[a]
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.¿” (¿Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿.)¿¿ 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent
Hiring, Supervision and Retention of an Unfit Employee 
In
the fourth cause of action of the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “Defendants LOS
ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, a public entity; CITY OF
LOS ANGELES, a public entity; COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, a public entity; STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, a public entity; CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, a public
entity; and Does 1 to 50, inclusive, knew or should have known that Defendant
JOHN DOE was incompetent and unfit and that his incompetence and unfitness
created a particular risk to others, including Plaintiff…Defendant JOHN DOE’s
incompetence and unfitness harmed Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶¶ 37-38.) Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY, a public entity; CITY OF LOS ANGELES, a public entity; COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES, a public entity; STATE OF CALIFORNIA, a public entity; CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, a public entity; and Does 1 to 50, inclusive,
negligence [sic] in hiring, supervising and/or retaining Defendant JOHN DOE was
a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.” (Compl., ¶ 40.) 
In the demurrer, Metro
cites to Government Code section 815, subdivision (a),
which provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute: (a) A
public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an
act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.”
((See also
Fox v. County of Fresno (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 1238, 1241,
“[i]n California, governmental tort liability must be based on statute.”) Metro
argues that here, “[t]he Complaint does not contain statutory authority
required against a public entity as to the Fourth Cause of Action…” (Demurrer
at p. 4:9-10.) 
But the fourth cause of
action alleges that “[p]ursuant to Government Code
Section 815.2(a), Defendants LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, a public entity; CITY OF LOS ANGELES, a public
entity; COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, a public entity; STATE OF CALIFORNIA, a public
entity; CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, a public entity; and Does 1 to
50, inclusive, and each of them, are vicariously liable for injuries to
Plaintiff CHRISTOPHER ROSALES caused by the acts, omissions, and/or breach of
the duty of care of its employees, including Defendant JOHN DOE.” (Compl., ¶
41, emphasis added.) As noted by Plaintiff, Government
Code section 815.2, subdivision (a) provides that “[a] public entity is
liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of
the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission
would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against
that employee or his personal representative.”
The fourth cause of action
also alleges that “[p]ursuant to Government Code
Section 815.4, Defendants LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY, a public entity; CITY OF LOS ANGELES, a public entity; COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES, a public entity; STATE OF CALIFORNIA, a public entity; CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, a public entity; and Does 1 to 50, inclusive, and
each of them, are vicariously liable for injuries to Plaintiff CHRISTOPHER
ROSALES caused by the acts, omissions, and/or breach of the duty of care of its
independent contractors, including Defendant JOHN DOE.” (Compl., ¶ 42.) As
noted by Plaintiff, Government Code section 815.4
provides that “[a] public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by a
tortious act or omission of an independent contractor of the public entity to
the same extent that the public entity would be subject to such liability if it
were a private person. Nothing in this section subjects a public entity to
liability for the act or omission of an independent contractor if the public
entity would not have been liable for the injury had the act or omission been
that of an employee of the public entity.” 

Plaintiff also cites to C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist., supra, 53 Cal.4th at pages 865-866,
where the California Supreme Court noted that “[o]n review, the question
presented is whether the district may be found vicariously liable for the acts
of its employees (Gov. Code, § 815.2)—not for the
acts of the counselor, which were outside the scope of her employment…but for
the negligence of supervisory or administrative personnel who allegedly knew,
or should have known, of the counselor’s propensities and nevertheless hired,
retained and inadequately supervised her. We conclude plaintiff’s theory of
vicarious liability for negligent hiring, retention and supervision is a
legally viable one. Ample case authority establishes that school personnel
owe students under their supervision a protective duty of ordinary care, for
breach of which the school district may be held vicariously liable…If a
supervisory or administrative employee of the school district is proven to have
breached that duty by negligently exposing plaintiff to a foreseeable danger of
molestation by his guidance counselor, resulting in his injuries, and assuming
no immunity provision applies, liability falls on the school district under section 815.2.” The California Supreme Court also noted
as follows: 
 
“The statutory framework upon which the
District’s vicarious liability depends is easily set out. Section 815 establishes that public entity tort
liability is exclusively statutory: “Except as otherwise provided by
statute: [¶] (a) A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such
injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public
employee or any other person.” Section 815.2, in
turn, provides the statutory basis for liability relied on here: “(a) A
public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of
an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act
or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of
action against that employee or his personal representative. [¶] (b) Except as
otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury
resulting from an act or omission of an employee of the public entity where the
employee is immune from liability.” Finally, section
820 delineates the liability of public employees themselves: “(a)
Except as otherwise provided by statute (including Section
820.2), a public employee is liable for injury caused by his act or
omission to the same extent as a private person. [¶] (b) The liability of a
public employee established by this part (commencing with Section 814) is subject to any defenses that would be
available to the public employee if he were a private person.” In other
words, “the general rule is that an employee of a public entity is liable
for his torts to the same extent as a private person (§
820, subd. (a)) and the public entity is vicariously liable for any injury
which its employee causes (§ 815.2, subd. (a)) to
the same extent as a private employer (§ 815, subd. (b)).”
 (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist., supra, at page 868, emphasis added.) 
In its reply, Metro argues
that C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist., supra, is “distinguishable
from the case here, as it concerns a special relationship between a school and
its students.” (Reply at p. 2:23-24.) In C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist., supra, at page 877, the California Supreme Court
noted that “[t]urning to the duty element, we have explained that the potential
legal responsibility of District administrators and supervisors for negligently
hiring or retaining Hubbell arises from the special relationship they had with
plaintiff, a student under their supervision, which relationship entailed the
duty to take reasonable measures to protect plaintiff from injuries at the
hands of others in the school environment. Absent such a special relationship,
there can be no individual liability to third parties for negligent hiring,
retention or supervision of a fellow employee, and hence no vicarious liability
under section 815.2 (or, for private organizations,
under common law respondeat superior principles).” 
But Metro’s demurrer does
not contain any argument that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action fails because
the Complaint does not allege the requisite “special relationship.” Rather, the
demurrer only argues that “[a]s to the Fourth Cause of Action, Plaintiff has
failed to plead any statutory liability against Metro under the Government
Claims Act…” (Demurrer at p. 5:12-13.) Metro fails to acknowledge in the
demurrer that the fourth cause of action cites to, inter alia, Government Code section 815.2. (Compl., ¶ 41.) As to
the arguments raised by Metro for the first time in the reply, the Court notes
that “[p]oints raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not
be considered, because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity
to counter the argument.¿” (American Drug Stores,
Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453¿.)
Metro also argues in the
reply that “Plaintiff’s Opposition’s argument is based on the contention that
Metro could be held vicariously liable for its employees’ negligence. This
argument is irrelevant as it fails to dispute the fact that while there is
statutory authority for a cause of action against Metro for the negligence of
their employees, there is no statutory authority for any direct cause of action
against Metro as a result of its own actions.” (Reply at p. 2:14-18, emphasis
omitted.) As an initial matter, the Court does not see how this argument shows
that Plaintiff failed to state a cause of action for negligent hiring,
supervision, and retention of an unfit employee. The argument appears to concede
that Plaintiff may allege such a cause of action under a vicarious liability
theory. As discussed, the fourth cause of action cites to, inter alia, Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a), which
provides that “[a] public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an
act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given
rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.”
(Compl., ¶ 41.) 
The Court does not find
that Metro has shown in the demurrer that the fourth cause of action fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
The Court notes that Metro
also states in the demurrer that “Metro demurs to Plaintiff’s Complaint in its
entirety on the grounds that the Complaint fails to state a cause of action
upon which relief may be granted and is uncertain.” (Demurrer at p. 3:5-6.) The
Court notes that Metro’s demurrer does not contain any arguments as to any
causes of action other than the fourth cause of action of the Complaint. In
addition, Metro’s demurrer does not appear to contain any arguments as to why
the Complaint is uncertain. The Court does not find that Metro has shown that
the Complaint is uncertain. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court overrules Metro’s demurrer in its entirety. 
Motion to Strike
A
court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or any part of a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
Metro
moves for an order striking the fourth cause of action from the Complaint.
Metro argues that “the motion to strike should be granted as there is no
statutory authority for negligent training or supervision, as against a public
entity such as Metro for the operation of a vehicle.” (Mot. at p. 4:1-4.) As an
initial matter, the Complaint does not appear to contain any allegations
against Metro “regarding
negligent operation of a vehicle by a METRO employee,” (Mot. at p. 4:21-22),
and Metro does not cite to any such allegations. Rather, as discussed, the
Complaint alleges that “Defendant JOHN DOE
denied Plaintiff the ability to board the train due to items in his possession.
As Plaintiff attempted to explain that he had been able to board the trains on
prior occasions with the items in his possession, Defendant JOHN DOE, suddenly
and without warning, physically attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such
force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
 Moreover, as discussed, the fourth cause of
action alleges, inter alia, that “[p]ursuant to Government Code
Section 815.2(a), Defendants LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, a public entity; CITY OF LOS ANGELES, a public
entity; COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, a public entity; STATE OF CALIFORNIA, a public
entity; CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, a public entity; and Does 1 to
50, inclusive, and each of them, are vicariously liable for injuries to
Plaintiff CHRISTOPHER ROSALES caused by the acts, omissions, and/or breach of
the duty of care of its employees, including Defendant JOHN DOE.” (Compl., ¶
41, emphasis added.) As discussed, this provision provides that “[a] public
entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or
omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action
against that employee or his personal representative.” (Gov.
Code, § 815.2, subd. (a).) Like Metro’s demurrer, Metro’s motion to strike
does not appear to acknowledge that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action cites to
Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a). 
In light of the foregoing,
the Court denies Metro’s motion to strike. 
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, Metro’s demurrer to the Complaint is overruled in its
entirety. Metro’s motion to strike is denied. 
The
Court orders Metro to file and serve an answer to the Complaint within 10 days
of the date of this Order.¿¿ 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this Order.¿¿ 
 
DATED:  November 8, 2024                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court