 Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
6-3-24 (a/f 12-4-24 via 4-3-24 stipulation)
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
QUASH SERVICE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Specially Appearing Defendant, Cosentino Group, S.A.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. The complaint names a multitude
of parties comprised of suppliers, sellers, etc. The case was deemed
non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to Department 68 on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of MS International, Inc. to
the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. On November 2, 2023,
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory relief
and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
RULING: Continued.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted in Part/Denied in Part
·        
The court takes judicial notice of the denied writs of mandate
from the Second Appellate District to the extent it reflects and impacts the
same parties in the subject action. 
·        
The court declines to take judicial notice of the email regarding
the rejection of the writ of certiorari from the California Supreme Court.
 
Specially
appearing defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. (Cosentino Group) moves to quash
service of the summons and complaint on grounds of improper service, or
alternatively lack of general or specific jurisdiction. Plaintiff both opposes
the motion on grounds of invalid service, and requests a continuance of the
hearing on the jurisdictional issues. Cosentino Group in reply represents that
the further discovery confirms a lack of jurisdiction. Cosentino Group submits
substantial discussion on the holding company relationship between Cosentino
Group and C & C North America. 
 
On
December 8, 2023, the court issued a 12-page order denying the motion of
Cosentino Group to quash service of the summons and complaint based on improper
service of Eduardo Cosentino in British Columbia Canada. The court also
deferred consideration of the minimum contacts challenge to a future hearing
date in order to allow Consentino Group to take up a writ of mandate on the
proof of service issue. Upon resolution of the appeal, the parties also agreed
to allow Plaintiff to conduct discovery into jurisdictional support, if
applicable.
 
The
Court of Appeal denied the writ on March 20, 2024. The parties subsequently agreed
to a deposition of a person most knowledgeable regarding jurisdictional issues for
April 30, 2024, and the subject June 3, 2024, hearing date.
 
The
original motion was filed on October 12, 2023. Following the December 8, 2023,
and denial of the appeal on March 20, 2024, Plaintiff represents both the denial
of certiorari from the California Supreme Court, and
the deposition of the person most knowledgeable for Cosentino Group taking
place on May 6, 2024. Notwithstanding the completed deposition on May 6, 2024,
however, Plaintiff requests a continuance in order to allow for time to review
the deposition transcript and draft an opposition. Plaintiff filed the request
on May 20, 2024, the opposition due date.
 
The
court acknowledges the reply arguments challenging any finding of general or
specific jurisdiction, but declines to consider the substantive merits of the
challenge to jurisdiction regarding Cosentino Group at this hearing. The court
adheres to a policy of robust adjudication of legal argument on the merits, and
therefore elects to allow Plaintiff an opportunity to review the deposition
transcript and present a substantive opposition on the remaining jurisdiction
challenge. 
 
While the court advanced the instant hearing pursuant to the
parties’ April 3, 2024, stipulation, the court finds no prejudice in continuing
the hearing in order to allow full briefing on the general and specific
jurisdiction arguments. The court therefore continues the hearing to July 2, 2024,
in order to be concurrently heard with the Case Management Conference and OSC
re: Sanctions. The opposition on the remaining jurisdictional issue and any
new, revised reply are due in conformance with statutory deadlines. Wednesday
June 19, 2024, is a court holiday, and therefore not counted as a court day for
purposes of determining the opposition filing deadline. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
12b.)


Cosentino Group, S.A. to give notice to all parties. 
 