  Case Number:  20STCV34289    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BRUCE E. FISHMAN, M.D., et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PATRICK NAZEMI, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV34289
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
Date: 
  September 27, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
 



AND RELATED CROSS
ACTION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants MLA Defined Benefit Pension Plan (“DBPP”) and MLA Money
Purchase Pension Plan (“MPPP”), by and through their successor Administrator
Med-Legal Associates, LLC (“MLA LLC”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
On
September 9, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging: (1)
intentional fraudulent transfer; (2) fraudulent transfer; (3) transfer
resulting in debtor’s insolvency; (4) common law fraudulent transfer; (5)
aiding and abetting fraudulent transfer; (6) declaratory relief; and (7) unjust
enrichment. 
 
On
May 31, 2023, DBPP filed a cross-complaint (the “XC”) seeking declaratory
relief regarding the fraudulent transfers alleged in Plaintiffs’ Complaint.  On May 31, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a
motion for summary judgment and/or adjudication (the “Motion”) to the Complaint
and XC on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material fact on the
claims asserted in the Complaint and XC.[1]
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            Moving Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion for summary judgment
or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party
cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence,
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense.  (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts
liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  
 
Moving Defendant’s
Evidence
            In relevant part, the Complaint alleges that Nazemi made
numerous money transfers into a DBPP and MPPP to avoid paying Plaintiffs an
arbitration award.  (See Complaint
¶¶ 32-33.)  Moving Defendants provide
evidence that the DBPP was created in 2013 in order to provide retirement
security for three employees of MLA LLC’s predecessor, Med-Legal Associates,
Inc. (“MLA”).  (Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts (UMF”) 1-3, 7.) 
MLA contributed $300,000 to the DBPP in 2013.  (UMF 8.) 
MLA contributed an additional $269,700 to the Pension Plan on July 9,
2015.  (UMF 11.)  In May 2016, a separate IRS tax
identification number for the DBPP trust was obtained, and the funds were transferred
into a new designated segregated account. 
(UMF 14-15.)  On September 14,
2016 and September 15, 2016, MLA transferred an aggregate of $225,000 from its
operating account into the newly segregated account.  (UMF 16.) 
This amount was borrowed from a third party for the purpose of
satisfying MLA’s 2016 contribution.  (Id.)
 
An
interim arbitration award (the “Arbitration Award”) against MLA in Plaintiffs’
favor was entered on September 22, 2016. 
(UMF 20.)  The final Arbitration
Award was entered on February 2, 2017. 
(UMF 25.)
 
On
October 31, 2016, MLA provided employees with a Notice of Intent to Terminate
the DBPP based on the adverse impact of the Arbitration Award.  (See UMF 21-22.)  As of January 1, 2017, the DBPP was converted
into the MPPP, which did not require additional contributions from MLA.  (UMF 23.) 
Neither the DBPP nor MPPP has ever commingled assets with other
Defendants.  (UMF 34.)  DBPP and MPPP were not involved in MLA’s
transfer of $247,000 to US Risk Insurance Company on December 30, 2015.  (UMF 33.) 

 
Claims in the Complaint
and XC
The
Uniform Voidable Transfer Act (the “UVTA”), formerly known as the Uniform
Fraudulent Transfer Act, permits defrauded creditors to reach property in the
hands of a transferee.  (Lo v. Lee
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1065, 1071.)  A
transfer of property by a debtor is voidable if the debtor made the transfer
with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any creditor of the debtor.  (Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (a)(1).)  A determination of
fraudulent intent is generally a factual issue; relevant factors include, but
are not limited to, whether: (1) the debtor made the transfer to an “insider”;
(2) the debtor retained possession or control of the property after the
transfer; (3) the debtor had been sued before making the transfer; (4) the
debtor removed or concealed assets; (5) the value of the consideration received
by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset transferred;
and (6) the transfer occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial
debt was incurred.  (Civ. Code § 3439.04,
subd. (d); Aghaian v. Minassian (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 447, 456.)  The “badges of fraud” do not matter when
value is given, such as satisfaction of antecedent debt.  (Universal Home Improvement, Inc. v.
Robertson (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 116, 127.)
 
A transfer made or obligation incurred by a debtor is
voidable as to a creditor whose claim arose before the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the
obligation without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the
transfer or obligation and the debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor
became insolvent as a result of the transfer or obligation.  (Civ. Code § 3439.05.)
 
The
Court finds that Moving Defendants have satisfied their burden to show that
they are entitled to judgment on the first through third causes of action of
the Complaint.  Each of the transfers to
the DBPP and MPPP was for the purpose of satisfying an antecedent debt—MLA’s
required contribution to the DBPP and the subsequent retention of employee
retirement funds in the MPPP.   Moving
Defendants have also demonstrated that they have not aided and abetted in any
fraudulent transfers and that they are distinct entities from other
Defendants.  Moving Defendants’ evidence
also demonstrates that DBPP is entitled to judgment on its declaratory relief
claim in the XC based on the evidence concerning the fraudulent transfer claims.
 
Procedural Issues with
Plaintiffs’ Opposition Papers
An
opposition to a motion for summary judgment shall be served and filed not less
than 14 days preceding the noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the
court for good cause orders otherwise. 
(CCP § 437c, subd. (b)(2).  The
opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice shall or may be taken.  (Id.)  The opposition papers shall include a
separate statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the
moving party to be undisputed, indicating if the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed.  (CCP § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  The statement also shall set forth plainly
and concisely any other material facts the opposing party contends are
disputed.  (Id.)  Each material fact contended by the opposing
party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting
evidence.  (Id.)  Failure to comply with this requirement of a
separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court's
discretion, for granting the motion.  (Id.)
 
            On August 4, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ ex
parte application to continue the hearing on the Motion to allow them extra
time to file an opposition brief.  The ex
parte application requested an extension due to the ongoing health issues
of Plaintiffs’ counsel Howard A. Kapp (“Kapp”) and recent retention of
co-counsel Daniel S. Rubin (“Rubin”).  
 
 
 
            Plaintiffs filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) on
September 15, 2023.  The Opposition
consists of a declaration from Kapp and some attached exhibits.  There is no Separate Statement that disputes
specific facts presented in the Motion or a memorandum that recites applicable
legal authority.  The Opposition
reiterates Kapp’s ongoing health issues that have previously been raised with
the Court and refers to an undisclosed personal emergency that prevented Rubin
from performing work on the Opposition. 
(See Declaration of Howard A. Kapp (“Kapp Decl.”) ¶¶ 32-46.) Notably,
Plaintiffs did not seek any additional leave to prepare an opposition due to
any exigencies caused by Rubin’s personal emergency.  The Court has previously advised Plaintiffs
of the necessity of retaining other counsel if Kapp’s personal health prevented
him from being able to sufficiently participate in the litigation of this
case.  
 
            The Opposition argues that a pending federal case
warrants the stay or denial of the Motion, but does not present any legal
authority to support this proposition.  Where
a point is merely asserted without argument and authority for the proposition,
it is deemed to be without foundation and requires no discussion.  (Central Valley Gas Storage LLC v. Southam (2017)
11 Cal.App.5th 686, 695.)  The Opposition
further contends that a declaration submitted by Nazemi in another case wherein
he alludes to a medical condition affecting his memory contradicts the
declaration offered by Nazemi in support of the current Motion.  (See Kapp Decl., Exhibit A ¶
14.)  The Court observes that the Nazemi
Declaration presented in support of the Motion also refers to a medical
condition and states the basis for his knowledge of the facts stated within the
declaration.  (See Nazemi Decl. ¶
1.)
 
            
Based
on the foregoing, the Opposition fails to raise a triable issue of material
fact with respect to any claim.  The
Court therefore GRANTS the Motion.  
 
            Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
       Dated this 27th day of September 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



 
 


