  Case Number:  23STCV04372    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  11 Marotta (23STCV04372)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
 
Date:                           11/21/24
 
Time:                          10:30
am
 
Moving Party:           4045 Vineland Avenue Partners and
E&S Ring Management Corp. (collectively “Defendants”) 
 
Opposing Party:        Michelle Marotta (“Plaintiff”)
 
Department:              11
 
Judge:                         David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to all three causes of action.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative class action. 
The second amended complaint (“SAC”) alleges:
 
1. Plaintiff brings
this action as a class action, on behalf of herself and all other California
residents residing on Arch Drive, in Studio City, California, similarly
situated, relating to Defendants’ public and private nuisances, and negligence,
and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Defendants and each of them, are alleged herein, to have installed but
failed to adequately maintain or secure at least one overly-mature Pine tree on
the SUBJECT PROPERTY on and before February 24, 2023, causing said tree to
collapse and remain on Arch Drive on and after February 24, 2023 and creating
and thereafter maintaining a dangerous condition that Defendants, and each of
them, refused to remedy timely at any time. 
This constituted a danger to the public due to the risk of immediate
physical harm from the collapsed tree and its branches that blocked the public
road and alley way, the lack of access due to the road blockage caused by the
fallen tree, and the unsafe conditions and resulting damage to utility services
that hindered, prevented and interfered with repair crews and repair equipment
from the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (“LADWP”) or any other
government agencies, from making repairs needed to restore services to
Plaintiff and those similarly situated, within a reasonable time.  [Citations.] Defendants also refused
reasonable requests to access or to allow access onto their property so that
emergency repairs needed to restore power could be made in a reasonable and
safe manner  Such access was needed for
reasons including to initiate repairs to power lines and power poles on and
near the TREE FALL area including portions of the tree that fell into and out
of the SUBJECT PROPERTY.  Also, access to
the SUBJECT PROPERTY was needed for anyone to remove the Defendants’ fallen
tree or any parts thereof which extended from the SUBJECT PROPERTY to and
through Arch Drive and the abutting public alley which was left inaccessible
and a continuing dangerous condition as alleged herein. Simply removing the
portions of the tree not on the SBJECT PROPERTY would not allow the harm
addressed herein to be remedied.  As
These acts left an estimated number of over 500, individuals, denizens,
residents, tenants or occupants living in or on Arch Drive, to suffer the
special and unique personal harm, 
emotional distress, inconvenience, and/or deprivation of use of their
residences/ouster, actually or constructively, without light, power, heat
and/or hot water of any kind, as well as lack of security and dark and unsafe
conditions, for an unreasonable amount of time (more than 3 nights and four
days as more detailed below in ¶¶ 8-17) (“BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS”).  The BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS also resulted in
Plaintiff and those similarly situated incurring general and special damages
and entitling them to a permanent injunction against Defendants and each of
them, restraining or prohibiting Defendants from installing and failing to
adequately maintain, or otherwise refusing to timely remove fallen trees or any
portion thereof, they own or manage, or which obstruct or prevent ordinary use
of public streets or sidewalks or threatening to or actually downing powerlines
in and around Arch Drive.
 
* * *
 
8. At all times
relevant Plaintiff and those similarly situated were residents (including as
tenants and owners and with property rights) of Arch Drive, in Studio City,
California.  The rear of the SUBJECT
PROPERTY is located on Arch Drive with an iron fence lining the street as well
as various trees including several mature pine trees of 30-50 feet or taller
planted and installed several years before February 24, 2023 on the SUBJECT
PROPERTY. 
 
9. On February 24,
2023, one of those trees had overgrown to such size, weighing several tons and
more than 40 feet in height, that it had uprooted and fell through the SUBJECT
PROPERTY’s iron fencing and onto the public road and alley.  This created a dangerous condition, including
without limit, several limbs protruded like dangerous spikes (including into
areas where people walked), debris from the tree was scattered, the length of
the enormous tree (while still having the base on Defendants’ property) blocked
the public road and alley way and prevented access for equipment and crews
needed to make repairs to power lines and poles; and the fallen tree and debris
therefrom made it unsafe and too dangerous for repair crews to commence repairs
without first removing the fallen tree and accessing the SUBJECT PROPERTY (as
noted above) for those the needed emergency repairs.  Further, as addressed above, during February
24 to 27, 2023, Defendants did not permit, prevented, refused, or otherwise
would not readily permit equipment or repair crews from LADWP onto the SUBJECT
PROPERTY which was needed to make those emergency repairs to restore power and
services to Plaintiff and those similarly situated.  Moreover, the alleyway entrance and egress
was blocked, including one-end of Arch Drive was entirely blocked and
completely obstructed.  Upon information
and belief, the over-grown tree collapsed and fell due to the lack of lateral
support and subjacent support at the point where the tree was abutting the
public road, and due to its overgrowth without the needed additional support or
securing of that tree and improper maintenance, causing its insufficient
rooting to destabilize the surrounding dirt and land during the rainstorm on or
about February 24, 2023, and causing Defendants’ tree to fall onto nearby
electricity poles and break several powerlines and bend others along Arch Drive
and the alleyway, and which, Defendants knew or should have known, would and
did cause all or substantially all of the tenants, residents and apartment
buildings on Arch Drive to be left entirely without any power for longer than
reasonable, and such that the easternly entrance to Arch Drive was completely
blocked and untraversable, dangerous and hazardous, during that time.  (the allegations in this paragraph are
referred to as the “TREE FALL”).   
 
10. On and between
February 24, 2023 to February 27, 2023, the SUBJECT PROPERTY, operated in the
ordinary course of business as a fully functioning apartment rental property
fully serviced with onsite staff consisting of a property manager and staff and
offsite property or asset managers, engineering and landscaping managers and
staff.   
 
11. By the late
night of February 24, 2023, Plaintiff and those similarly situated (including
other tenants, residents, neighbors, and/or persons suffering from the BAD
NEIGHBOR ACTS) and others began to make complaints to Defendants, and each of
them, and/or their managers in charge and on the property, to remove the fallen
tree and obstructions on the public road, and about their persistence to
refusal to stop the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS or remedy the TREE FALL.  This includes as early as late night on
February 24, 2023 through the early morning February 25, 2023, and continually
until and through February 27, 2023.   
 
12. In fact, during
that time, Defendants, and each of them, were informed and advised of the
unsafe and dangerous conditions created by the TREE FALL and there was a
growing number of tenants, residents, occupants and/or persons working for
LADWP, who physically appeared outside the SUBJECT PROPERTY’s front entrance in
person to complain and/or request that Defendants and each of them, remedy the
dangerous conditions created by the TREE FALL as well as to grant access to
LADWP repair crews and equipment to areas on the SUBJECT PROPERTY needed to
restore power and services damaged by the TREE FALL .  Defendants’ managers and employees, refused,
and instead argued with these individuals, threatened to call the police and
did call police or the sheriff during that time, and would not allow LADWP access
to the SUBJECT PROPERTY to remedy to 
make emergency repairs to restore power or to to remedy the dangerous
condition created by the TREE FALL (or do so itself), and continued to engage
in the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS.  Defendants’
managers and employees also ignored Plaintiff, those other tenants, residents,
and occupants and interested persons. 
Defendants continued to reject and refuse to comply with multiple
requests from LADWP for reasonable and safe access to the SUBJECT PROPERTY so
as to allow LADWP to safely make repairs to the downed power lines and broken
or bent power poles during the relevant time period.  
 
13. Further, upon
information and belief, on or about February 25 or 26, 2023, in response to
request to remove the tree as requested by LADWP so power could be restored,
one of Defendants’ on-site managers publicly stated in the neighborhood, “F@@@
the tenants” and that Plaintiff or tenants could take care of it themselves, or
words to that effect.  The BAD NEIGHBOR
acts continued throughout the time, and by the morning of February 26, 2023, at
or about 8 am, when LAWDP attempted to make repairs to restore power, they were
refused entry onto the SUBJECT PROPERTY by Defendants’ on-site managers and/or
staff. 
 
14. At all times
relevant, Defendants, and each of them, knew or should have known of the TREE
FALL, that it caused the power outages, and that the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS would
and did harm Plaintiff and those similarly situated, but Defendants ignored the
problem and refused or failed to repair, correct, or remedy the problem or
remove the fallen tree or obstructions, despite knowing and being requested to
do so urgently, including by putative class members and LADWP, and despite
Defendants, and each of them being aware of the ongoing and increasing harm and
danger to Plaintiffs, and those similar situated, by the persistence of the
TREE FALL and BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS. Yet, they would not attempt to remedy the
obstructions, TREE FALL, or discontinue the BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, nor would
Defendants agree to pay to have their fallen tree removed, or actually ensure
it was removed at any time or otherwise engage in any act to remedy it or the
damages caused by their actions 
 
15. By the morning
of February 26, 2023, after Plaintiff and those similarly situated had been
three nights without any power/electricity/light and were living in squaller,
without convenient showers, hot water, electrical stoves, televisions,
chargers, and were living in darkness or otherwise ousted, constructively or
actually, out of their own homes or apartments, and/or were increasingly
suffering intolerable inconveniences, humiliation, emotional distress, and
rapid deterioration in habitable living conditions.  Defendants acts continually deprived
Plaintiff and those similar situated, of the value of the rents/mortgages and
homes or apartments for that time, as Defendants OWNER and PROPERTY MANAGERS
were indifferent to Plaintiff and those similarly situation, and they allowed
their nuisance to persist including, without limit, continuing to engage in the
BAD NEIGHBOR ACTS, continuing to ignore the TREE FALL, and refusing to allow
removal and instead permitting the fallen tree to obstruct the public road and
damage the power supply in the area.  Nor
did Defendants otherwise abate the nuisance or nuisance activities so as to
allow for the LADWP to lawfully remove Defendants’ fallen tree and, in fact,
continued to prevent LADWP from lawfully making the repairs needed to restore
power.  
 
16. By the night of
February 26, 2023, LADWP was still unable to access or affect repairs, and did
not have authority from Defendants to remove Defendants’ fallen tree, and
Defendants, and each of them, still refused to pay for or otherwise remove the
fallen tree on their own and they prevented LADWP from taking such action.  After LADWP was turned away and prevented
from making repairs, for yet another night, several tenants gathered near the
TREE FALL, including Plaintiff and others similarly situated, to protest
Defendants’ nuisance and refusal to remedy the nuisances as alleged herein,
including calling a tree removal company to remedy the TREE FALL and BAD
NEIGHBOR ACTS, and this was observed by at least one Sherriff’s Deputy
on-scene.  After approaching Defendants’
on-site managers or staff to pay for the removal that night and being rejected,
the tenants (including Plaintiff) engaged in peaceful self-help, by collecting
community funds and through a Good Samaritan, to pay the approx. $3,000 to
remove and dispose of Defendants’ fallen tree so LADWP could start working on
repairs to restore power to Arch Drive so they could return to normal use of
their residences, and to permit Plaintiff and those similarly situated to use
of the road and sidewalk on Arch Drive without Defendants’ obstructions and
debris. 
 
17. On February 27,
2023, after four days without power and ordinary and reasonable use of their
homes and apartments and without habitable living conditions, the LADWP was
able to restore the electrical service and power to Arch Drive at or about 1:30
pm that day as a result of the class members and Good Samarita having the tree
removed after Defendants continued to refuse to do so and prevented the
removal.   
 
18. However, large
pieces of the fallen tree from the TREE FALL were a continuing and persistent
nuisance to Plaintiff and those similarly situated, because Defendants, and
each of them, refused to remove their debris and continued to ignore the TREE
FALL, which persisted to be a nuisance and blocked parts of the sidewalk of and
adjacently to Arch Drive for several days or weeks after February 27, 2023. . .
. 
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 8-18.)
 
At issue here is Defendants’
demurrer.
 
DISCUSSION
 
The SAC contains three causes of
action: 
 
(1) public nuisance; 
 
(2) private nuisance; and 
 
(3) negligence and negligent
infliction of emotional distress.
 
Defendants
 
Defendants assert that the causes
of action fail because Plaintiff fails to allege duty and breach.  Particularly, Defendants claim:
 
* “no court has recognized a duty
of private citizens to aid electric utilities to restore power” by “removing
trees entangled in powerlines” (Demurrer, p. 15, capitalization and emphasis
deleted; see also id. at pp. 12-14, 16-17);
 
* Defendants had a right to
exclude DWP from their property and did not have a duty to allow DWP to enter
their property (see id. at pp. 17-18);
 
* the SAC fails to allege that
“Defendants[] actively interfered with DWP’s duty to repair their public
powerline” or that Defendants denied access to DWP (id. at p. 18,
capitalization and emphasis deleted; see also id. at pp. 19-20); and
 
* Plaintiff relies on
distinguishable cases.  (See id. at pp.
20-22; see also id. at p. 23.)
 
Plaintiff
 
Plaintiff disagrees.  She claims:
 
* independent of LADWP’s duty to
restore power, Defendants had a duty to plant the tree, and maintain it, in a
reasonable manner pre-fall (see Opposition, pp. 4-12); 
 
* Defendants are liable for
interfering with LADWP, and failing to remove the tree, post-fall (see ibid.
[arguing that Defendants prevented LADWP from entering the property to make
repairs]);
 
* leaving the tree in the street
for three days and nights caused a nuisance (see id. at pp. 12-13);
 
* the duty allegations satisfy
the Rowland factors (see id. at pp. 13-16);
 
* Defendants’ purported right to
exclude LADWP from their property was “limited by the harm being caused” (id.
at p. 16, capitalization and emphasis deleted; see also id. at p. 17); and 
 
* the SAC alleges facts showing
post-fall bad acts.  (See id. at pp.
17-18.)
 
Reply
 
In reply, Defendants contend:
 
* the duty to fix the powerline,
and remove the tree, belonged to LADWP (see id. at pp. 5, 7-9);
 
* it is undisputed that
Defendants were not required to give LADWP access to their property (see id. at
pp. 5-6, 10-11);
 
* Plaintiff fails to highlight
facts that show interference with LADWP’s repair efforts (see id. at pp.
11-12); and
 
* Plaintiff must allege a
cognizable duty for the nuisance causes of action.  (See id. at p. 12.)
 
Analysis
 
Last time, the Court noted that
the original complaint appeared to allege “one main duty with respect to the
nuisance claims and at least two main duties with respect to the negligence
claims.”  (4/19/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer,
p. 4.)  “The main duty for the nuisance
claims was the duty to abate the nuisance by removing the fallen tree to make
it possible to restore power and to allow residents to enter and exit both
sides of Arch Drive.  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
“The main duties for the negligence claims were to install (and
maintain) the tree in a reasonable, safe manner pre-fall and to remove the tree
post-fall.  [Citations.]”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court sustained the demurrer
to the nuisance claims because “Plaintiff alleged[] that [LA]DWP asked
Defendants to remove the tree and that Defendants refused and prevented [LA]DWP
from making repairs.  [Citations.]”  (Ibid.) 
The Court found that those “allegations, if true, arguably would support
the recognition of a duty against Defendants.” 
(Ibid.)  The Court granted leave
to amend because the allegations were vague and conclusory, and the Court
“need[ed] to see more details regarding the communications and what happened
between Defendants and [LA]DWP.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court also granted leave to
amend as to the negligence claims.  (See
ibid.)  Although “the pre-fall duty
allegations appear[ed] sufficiently alleged,” the Court found “it [] appropriate
to give Plaintiff a chance to strengthen the post-fall duty allegations.”  (Ibid.)
 
The SAC is similar.  Same as the original complaint, it alleges
pre-fall and post-fall theories. 
 
The pre-fall theory is a viable
theory.  The Court finds that the demurrer
to the negligence cause of action should be overruled because planting and
maintaining the tree in a negligent manner is an adequate basis for liability
at the pleading stage.  (See, e.g., SAC,
¶¶ 1, 9, 54.)
 
Turning to the post-fall theory,
the SAC states that Defendants’ tree fell on “electricity poles and [broke]
several powerlines[,]” causing a power outage and “creat[ing] a dangerous
condition[.]”  (Id. at ¶ 9.)  Plaintiffs’ continue to theorize that
Defendants were responsible for removing the tree so that LADWP workers could
enter the area to restore power.  (See,
e.g., id. at ¶¶ 1, 9, 14.) 
 
Plaintiff’s theory is
overbroad.  The effect of Plaintiffs’
theory would be to require the private owner of an obstruction, which arose
during a storm, to remove the obstruction while it is still entwined with
exposed powerlines that are owned and maintained by a public utility.  Contact with the exposed powerlines could
create an extreme risk of harm, perhaps death, not only to the private owner,
but also to private neighbors.  Plaintiff
would have the private owner – and the private neighbors – incur the extreme
risk of harm before the public utility acts to eliminate the extreme risk.  None of the cases cited by Plaintiffs goes
this far.  (See Carson v. Facilities
Development Co. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 830 [finding that city and condominium
association could be liable for dangerous condition created by private sign
that obstructed view at public intersection]; see also Gibson v. Garcia
(1950) 96 Cal.App.2d 681 [finding that the complaint stated a claim against
transit company where injuries stemmed from car crashing into transit company’s
rotten pole]; Krongos v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 387 [in a wrongful-death case concerning construction
worker who was electrocuted when his boom truck contacted power line, lessor of
construction yard’s motion for summary judgment reversed because lessor knew
that the power line ran across the property and posed a foreseeable threat of
electrocution]; City and County of San Francisco v. Ho Sing (1958) 51
Cal.2d 127 [following a slip-and-fall case, county and city allowed to bring
indemnity claim against defendant who had installed a defective skylight in
public sidewalk]; Mattos v. Mattos (1958) 162 Cal.App.2d 41 [judgment
against defendant for nuisance where defendant’s trees fell onto plaintiff’s
property and restricted grazing]; Barton v. Capitol Market (1943) 57
Cal.App.2d 516 [in a slip-and-fall case, nonsuit judgment reversed because the
evidence was sufficient to permit the jury to decide whether defendant’s
spraying of the sidewalk caused plaintiff’s injury]; Kopfinger v. Grand
Central Public Market (1964) 60 Cal.2d 852 [in a slip-and-fall case,
nonsuit judgment reversed because the evidence indicated that defendants knew
meat deliveries to market made sidewalk slippery, and, after deliveries,
defendants did not clean sidewalk]; Schaefer v. Lenahan (1944) 63
Cal.App.2d 324 [in a case where plaintiff was injured when she stepped in a
hole on the sidewalk, judgment granted in favor of defendant who owned property
abutting the sidewalk]; Sexton v. Brooks (1952) 39 Cal.2d 153 [in a
slip-and-fall case, judgment against owner of building next to sidewalk
reversed due to erroneous jury instruction]; Peters v. City and County of
San Francisco (1953) 41 Cal.2d 419 [similar – erroneous jury instruction in
a slip-and-fall case against abutting landowner; judgment against city affirmed
because the evidence supported the jury’s finding that city had constructive
notice of defective sidewalk]; Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th
1149 [in a case where plaintiff was injured by stepping on a broken water meter
on strip of city land, the evidence established a triable issue regarding the
landlords’ control of the city land]; Lussier v. San Lorenzo Valley Water
Dist. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 92 [finding that the water district was not
negligent when it failed to remove natural debris from its watershed and that
the nuisance claim against the water district necessitated a finding of
negligence]; Parker v. Larsen (1890) 86 Cal. 236 [finding the defendant
liable where irrigation water from his land seeped onto the plaintiff’s
land].)   
 
The question is whether Plaintiff’s
interference allegations change the result. 
On balance, the answer is yes.  The
SAC alleges: 
 
. . . a growing
number of tenants, residents, occupants and/or persons working for LADWP, who
physically appeared outside the SUBJECT PROPERTY’s front entrance in person to
complain and/or request that Defendants and each of them, remedy the dangerous
conditions created by the TREE FALL as well as to grant access to LADWP repair
crews and equipment to areas on the SUBJECT PROPERTY needed to restore power
and services damaged by the TREE FALL . 
Defendants’ managers and employees, refused, and instead argued with
these individuals, threatened to call the police and did call police or the
sheriff during that time, and would not allow LADWP access to the SUBJECT
PROPERTY to remedy to  make emergency
repairs to restore power or to remedy the dangerous condition created by the
TREE FALL (or do so itself), and continued to engage in the BAD NEIGHBOR
ACTS.  Defendants’ managers and employees
also ignored Plaintiff, those other tenants, residents, and occupants and
interested persons.  Defendants continued
to reject and refuse to comply with multiple requests from LADWP for reasonable
and safe access to the SUBJECT PROPERTY so as to allow LADWP to safely make
repairs to the downed power lines and broken or bent power poles during the
relevant time period.
 
(SAC, ¶ 12; see also, e.g., id.
at ¶¶ 1 [Defendants “prevented and interfered with [LADWP] repair crews and
repair equipment” and “refused reasonable requests to access or to allow access
onto their property”], 9 [“Defendants did not permit, prevented, refused, or
otherwise would not readily permit [LADWP] equipment or repair crews . . . onto
the SUBJECT PROPERTY”], 14 [Defendants “refused or failed to repair, correct,
or remedy the problem or remove the fallen tree or obstructions, despite
knowing and being requested to do so urgently, including by putative class
members and LADWP”], 15 [Defendants “continued to prevent LADWP from lawfully
making the repairs needed to restore power”], 16 [Defendants “prevented LADWP
from taking [] action” and “turned LADWP away”].)  Taken as true, the allegations show that
Defendants rejected LADWP’s in-person requests to enter the property to remove
the tree, make repairs, and restore the power. 
In fact, a reasonable reading is that Defendants’ obstructed LADWP’s response
to an emergency.  The Court believes the
allegations suffice to allege duty and breach and that the interference
question is a factual question that should be fleshed out via discovery.[1]
 
Defendants’ argument about their
right to exclude LADWP from the property is unpersuasive.  The argument is based on Cedar Point
Nursery v. Hassid (2021) 594 U.S. 139. 
(See Demurrer, pp. 17-18; see also Reply, p. 10.)  A California regulation authorized union
organizers to enter “an agricultural employer’s property” “for up to three
hours per day, 120 days per year” “to solicit support for unionization.”  (Cedar Point Nursery, supra, 594 U.S.
at 143.)  The United States Supreme Court
held that the regulation “constitute[d] a per se physical taking under the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.”  (Id.
at 144, 162.)  Here, however, the SAC
alleges an emergency scenario; there was a fallen tree ensnared with exposed
powerlines, and Defendants impeded LADWP’s efforts to respond to the danger.  Cedar Point Nursery does not apply to
these facts.
 
Nor does Defendants’ other non-emergency case, Bounds v. Superior
Court (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 468.  (See Reply, p. 10.)
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
overruled in full. 
 
 
 
 
 
             
 
 
 


