  Case Number:  22VECV02019    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
PATRICIA
  ANN MENDEZ,
 
Plaintiff.
 
       
   v.
DONG HAI
  LE, ET AL., 
Defendants.
 


 
   Case Number             Department
22VECV02019             107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO HAVE REQUESTS FOR
  ADMISSION DEEMED ADMITTED OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE COMPELLING RESPONSES TO THE
  REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE
 
 
 
                              



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an automobile collision case. On November
15, 2022, Plaintiff Patricia Ann Mendez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Dong Hai Le (“Le”), Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. (“Home Depot”), and Does
1 to 50, inclusive, asserting one cause of action for negligence. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On or about
November 24, 2020, Plaintiff was driving a motor vehicle on the I-405 Freeway
near Seal Beach, California, when Defendant Le, driving in an unsafe manner and
at high speed, collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle, causing Plaintiff to sustain
injuries. At the date and time of the incident, Le was driving a vehicle owned,
operated, and maintained by Home Depot as its agent and/or employee. 
 
On November 29, 2023, Home Depot filed the
instant motion, seeking an order “deeming [its] Requests for Admission, Set One
admitted, or in the alternative, ordering Plaintiff to respond to the Requests for
Admission, Set One, without objections, and for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff in the amount of $1,000.00.” (Notice of Motion, p. 3:20-23.)
 
As of January 17, 2024, no opposition to the
motion has been filed. 
 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.’s motion. The truth
of the matters specified in the defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set One,
are deemed admitted. Plaintiff Patricia Ann Mendez is ordered to pay the
defendant sanctions of $600. 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
If a party
to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, a
“party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the
truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as
for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
Home Depot
moves for an order deeming the truth of the matters specified in its Request
for Admissions, Set One (“RFAs”) admitted. 
Defense
counsel testifies as follows in support of the motion. On May 30, 2023, the
defendant propounded the RFAs on Plaintiff, and responses were due on July 5,
2023. (Motion, Declaration of Sarah G. Denis (“Denis Decl.”), ¶¶ 4-5;
Exhibit 2 – a copy of the RFAs.) Plaintiff did not request or receive any
extensions to serve the responses. (Denis Decl., ¶
6.) On August 30, 2023, counsel sent Plaintiff a meet and confer letter to
Plaintiff, requesting the responses. (Denis Decl., ¶
7.) However, as of the date counsel signed her declaration on November 29,
2023, Home Depot had not received the responses. (Denis
Decl., ¶ 8.)
The RFAs at issue asked the
defendant to admit the following.
1.     Admit
that the Defendant, Dong Hai Le, was not an employee of Home Depot at the time of
the INCIDENT (‘INCIDENT’ refers to the facts and circumstances giving rise to
YOUR (‘YOU’ or ‘YOUR’ means Responding Party) Complaint).
2.     Admit
that Defendant, Dong Hai Le, was not acting in the course and scope of his employment
for Home Depot at the time of the INCIDENT.
3.     Admit
that YOU do not have any evidence to support YOUR claim that Defendant, Dong Hai
Le, was an employee of Home Depot.
4.     Admit
that YOU do not have any evidence to support YOUR claim that Defendant, Dong Hai
Le, was acting in the course and scope of his employment with Home Depot at the
time of the INCIDENT. 
5.     Admit
that Defendant, Dong Hai Le, was not an agent of Home Depot.
6.     Admit
that the VEHICLE (‘VEHICLE’ means the vehicle YOU allege Defendant, Dong Hai
Le, was driving at the time of the INCIDENT) Defendant, Dong Hai Le, was
driving at the time of the INCIDENT had been rented from Home Depot by a third
party customer.
7.     Admit
that Home Depot did not cause the INCIDENT.
8.     Admit
that Home Depot did not contribute to the INCIDENT.
9.     Admit
that Home Depot was not negligent in causing the INCIDENT.
10.  Admit that
Home Depot is not liable for the INCIDENT.
11.  Admit that
the third party customer who rented the VEHICLE referenced in YOUR Complaint
had a valid drivers’ license at the time of the INCIDENT.
12.  Admit that
Home Depot complied with Vehicle Code Section 14604 in renting the VEHICLE to
the third party customer who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring.
13.  Admit that
Home Depot complied with Vehicle Code Section 14608 in renting the VEHICLE to
the third party customer who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring.
14.  Admit that
Home Depot complied with Vehicle Code Section 14609 in renting the VEHICLE to
the third party customer who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring.
15.  Admit that
the VEHICLE YOU claim Defendant Dong Hai Le was driving at the time of the
INCIDENT had been rented from Home Depot on the day of the INCIDENT.
16.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, the renter had
provided a Home Depot employee a copy of their drivers’ license.
17.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, the third party
customer had an auto insurance policy.
18.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, the third party
customer was not intoxicated.
19.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, the third party
customer not under the influence of alcohol.
20.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, the third party
customer was not under the influence of prescription medications.
21.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, the third party
customer was not under the influence of any drugs.
22.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, Home Depot did
not have any reason to believe the third party customer was incompetent to
drive the vehicle.
23.  Admit that
at the time the VEHICLE had been rented from Home Depot by the third party customer
who rented it on the day of the INCIDENT prior to it occurring, Home Depot did
not have any reason to believe the third party customer was unfit to drive the
vehicle.
24.  Admit that
Home Depot had not given permission to Defendant, Dong Hai Le, to operate the
VEHICLE at the time of the INCIDENT. 
(Motion, Denis Decl., Exhibit 2, pp. 1:25-4:23.)
“The court shall make [an]
order [admitting the truth of any matters specified in the RFAs], unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Here, there is no evidence
that Plaintiff has served, before the hearing on the instant motion, a proposed
response to the RFAs. 
Accordingly, the request to
deem the truth of the matters specified in the RFAs admitted is granted.
“It
is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose
failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Here,
Home Depot seeks sanctions of $1,000 against Plaintiff. The amount consists of
2 hours defense counsel spent on the moving papers and 3 hours she expected to
spend reviewing the opposition, preparing a reply, and attending the hearing, a
total of 5 hours at his billing rate of $200 per hour. (Denis Decl., ¶ 9.)
The
Court finds the requested sanctions excessive because Plaintiff did not file
any opposition, and no reply was filed. 
Accordingly,
the Court will impose sanctions of only $600 against Plaintiff. That amount
represents 3 hours of defense counsel’s time at her billing rate of $200 per
hour. 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.’s motion is GRANTED. 
 
The truth of the matters specified
in the defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set One, are deemed admitted. 
 
Plaintiff Patricia Ann Mendez is
ordered to pay the defendant sanctions of $600. 
 
 
 
 
It
is so ordered.         __________________________________
                                                   Judge
Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
January 22, 2024                                              Los Angeles County
Superior Court