 Case Number:  22STCV02588    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV02588




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Removal of Guardian ad Litem




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Tavis Lurry, Nakeithia Robinson,
  Khalon Madison, and Kahleeb Lurry 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Tavis Lurry, Nakeithia Robinson, Khalon Madison, and
Kahleeb Lurry (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint on January 21, 2022 related to
injuries in a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On July 14, 2022, Tavis Lurry was appointed guardian ad litem for
Khalon Madison, a minor. 
 
On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff Nakeithia Robinson filed an ex parte
application to appoint herself as guardian ad litem for Khalon Madison. According
to the Notice of Rejection filed on March 21, 2024, the application and order
was rejected because: “1) Plaintiff must resubmit on the revised, 2024 forms,
CIV-010 Application for Guardian ad Litem; and 2) there is a mistake on the
proposed order. Please erase the check marks and language from line 2. These
applications do not have a hearing. Leave every box in line 2 blank.” (Notice
Rejection, 3/21/24.) 
 
On April 9, 2024, the Court denied a petition to approve a minor’s
compromise for Khalon Madison because it was filed by Nakeithia Robinson, who
is not the appointed guardian ad litem. (Min. Order, 4/9/24.) 
 
Plaintiffs now move to remove Tavis Lurry as guardian ad litem,
arguing that Tavis Lurry and Nakeithia Robinson have dissolved their marriage,
Tavis Lurry is not the biological father of Khalon Madison, and Nakeithia
Robinson is the biological mother. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“When a minor, a person who lacks legal capacity to make
decisions, or a person for whom a conservator has been appointed is a party,
that person shall appear either by a guardian or conservator of the estate or
by a guardian ad litem appointed by the court in which the action or proceeding
is pending, or by a judge thereof, in each case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372,
subd. (a)(1).) 
 
“A guardian ad litem is an officer of the court appointing
him or her, and is essentially an agent of the court, whose duty it is to
protect the rights of a minor. The guardian ad litem has the right to control
the litigation on behalf of the minor, subject to the court's approval. The
guardian ad litem’s powers include the right to compromise or settle the
action, to control the procedural steps incident to the conduct of the
litigation, and, with the approval of the court, to make stipulations or concessions
that are binding on the minor, provided they are not prejudicial to the
latter's interests. In other words, these cases teach that a guardian ad
litem’s role is more than an attorney's but less than a party's, in that
the guardian oversees any attorney representing minor's litigation-related
interests and may make tactical and even fundamental decisions affecting the
litigation, but always with the interest of the minor in mind.” (County of
L.A. v. Super. Ct. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1303, 1311 [citations omitted].) 
 
“A minor who is a party in a lawsuit must appear by a
guardian ad litem appointed by the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending. . . . The appointment may be made on an ex parte application. A court
has broad discretion in ruling on a guardian ad litem application. In the
absence of a conflict of interest, the appointment is usually made on
application only and involves little exercise of discretion.” (Williams v.
Super. Ct. (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 36, 46–47 [internal quotations omitted].) 
 
“Thus, when
considering the appropriate guardian ad litem for a minor plaintiff in a civil
lawsuit, the central issue is the appropriate protection of the minor's legal
right to recover damages or other requested relief.” (Williams, supra,
at p. 47.) 
 
“[G]uardians ad litem are appointed by and subject to the
supervision of the trial court. The trial court can remove a guardian if he or
she is not performing responsibly, either on its own motion or at a party's
request.” (McClintock v. West (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 540, 552.) 
 
“The removal of a guardian ad litem is within the
sound discretion of the trial court.” (Estate of Emery (1962) 199
Cal.App.2d 22, 26 [affirming order of the trial court terminating authority and
capacity of a guardian ad litem where there was ample evidence in the record
that there was a conflict of interest between the interests of the guardian and
of the disabled party that could affect the guardianship].) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek to remove Tavis Lurry (also a co-plaintiff), as
guardian ad litem for Khalon Madison, arguing that since the appointment, a
conflict has arisen between Tavis Lurry (“Lurry”) and Nakeithia Robinson, which
was led to the dissolution of their marriage. 
 
The declaration of Nakeithia Robinson (“Robinson”) states under
penalty of perjury that she is the birth mother of Khalon Madison, and at the
time of the appointment of Tavis Lurry as guardian ad litem, she was married to
Lurry. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 2–3.) Lurry was appointed on July 14, 2022. On October
18, 2022, Robinson petitioned the West Palm Beach Circuit Court for dissolution
of her marriage to Lurry. (Id. ¶ 4.) She states that Lurry is not the
father of Khalon Madison and no longer has custody of him. (Id. ¶ 5.)
She also declares: “The interests of minor Khalon Madison are now vulnerable
due to the high conflict nature of the recent dissolution of the marriage
between Nakeithia Robinson and Tavis Lurry.” (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
Therefore, seeing that Lurry and Robison have separated, and Lurry is
not the biological father of Khalon Madison, and has no custody, the motion to
remove Lurry as guardian ad litem is granted. 
 
Plaintiffs also seek to appoint Nakeithia Robinson as the guardian ad
litem based on the application attached to this motion. (See Exh. B.) However,
the application must be filed separately and Plaintiffs must correct all the
deficiencies identified in the previous application. For example, the Court
notes that the exhibit B application does not use the updated 2024 form. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for removal of Tavis Lurry as guardian ad litem
for Khalon Madison is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 