 Case Number:  23STCV03240    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV03240




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and Trial-Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Bruce Berke and Zafira Berke




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Israel Morales



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Bruce Berke and Zafira Berke (“Defendants”) move to
continue trial and all related dates. Plaintiff Israel Morales (“Plaintiff”)
opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on February
14, 2023 and alleges negligence based on a motor vehicle accident. Trial was
initially set for August 13, 2024. 
 
            Defendants’ answer was filed on
March 29, 2023. 
 
            On June 3, 2024, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to October 25,
2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants argue that a continuance is necessary because they have
been unable to complete a physical and mental examination of Plaintiff. Defendant
Bruce Berke was deposed on June 6, 2024. On July 24, 2024, the first part of
Zafira Burke’s deposition was taken but could not be completed due to her
health. On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff appeared for a deposition, but it could
not go through since he required a Honduran interpreter. Defendants assert they
were previously informed that Plaintiff required a Spanish interpreter and had
obtained one for the deposition. Thereafter, the first part of Plaintiff’s
deposition was taken on August 12, 2024, and the second part was scheduled for
August 21, 2024. 
 
On August 19, 2024, Defendants noticed a physical examination of
Plaintiff for September 24, 2024 and a neuropsychological examination for
September 19, 2024. 
 
As a result, Defendants seek a trial continuance to January 24, 2025
to complete the examinations. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants caused the delays in
discovery by not serving code compliance examination notices. (See Pl. Exh. 11,12.)
Nevertheless, if the motion is granted, Plaintiff requests that the Court set
the trial date for February 24, 2025 since Plaintiff’s counsel will be involved
in a another trial on January 24, 2025. 
 
In reply, Defendants argue they could not examine Plaintiff until he
was deposed, which did not occur until August 2024. 
 
The Court notes that trial is currently set for October 25, 2024. That
means the fact discovery cut-off in this case was September 25, 2024. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) Even though Defendants seek to have all discovery
continued in this case, they have not moved to reopen discovery under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2024.050. (See Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v.
Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1588 [“…the
postponement of the trial date did not ‘operate to reopen discovery
proceedings’ ‘[e]xcept as provided in Section 2024.050’ – that is, except upon
a successful motion for leave to reopen discovery.” [alterations and
emphasis in original].) Since the trial continuance is based on fact discovery
being continued as well, there is currently no good cause to grant the motion. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion to continue trial and all related dates.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to continue trial and all related
dates.
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 