 Case Number:  22STCV21519    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21519




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Southern California Edison
  Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Brandee Vasquez and the Estate of Jonathyn Bradford, through successor in
  interest Brandee Vasquez   



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment,
or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
Authorities 
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.     Request for Judicial Notice 
4.     Compendium of Evidence in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiffs’ Memorandum in Opposition 
2.     Separate Statement in Opposition
3.     Objections to Evidence Submitted by Defendant
4.     Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence in Support
of Opposition
5.     Plaintiffs’ Notice of Supplemental Authority
in Opposition
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.     Reply in Support
2.     Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence 
3.     Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff’s Further
Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 5, 2022,
Plaintiffs Brandee Vasquez and the Estate of Jonathyn Bradford, through
successor in interest Brandee Vasquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative first
amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Southern California Edison Co. and
Does 1 to 20, asserting a wrongful death and survival action based on
negligence surrounding the death of Decedent Jonathyn Bradford (“Decedent”). The
third and final cause of action asserted is negligent infliction of emotional
distress brought solely by Brandee Vasquez. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that on July 7, 2020, Decedent was swimming in Shaver
Lake, when he was suddenly pulled underwater and ultimately drowned. (FAC ¶ 4.)
Brandee Vasquez witnessed Decedent struggling during the incident. (Id.
¶ 50.)
 
Plaintiffs allege the following against Moving Defendant Southern
California Edison Company (“Defendant”). Defendant owned, control, operated, or
managed Shaver Lake, which is artificial and was created by Defendant. (FAC ¶
9, 15.) Plaintiffs allege the lake receives waters from the tunnels of
Defendant’s Big Creek Hydroelectric Project. (Id. ¶ 15.) Defendant owed
a duty of care to Plaintiffs and breached that duty by failing provide the
following: signs or warnings about hazards at the lake such as strong currents,
frigid temperatures, and debris, notice that five others had drowned at the
lake, failing to provide a lifeguard on duty or rescue equipment, and that
emergency services were hours away. (Id. ¶ 28.) 
 
Plaintiffs also allege this conduct constituted “willful or malicious
failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, use, structure, or
activity because: (1) Defendants had actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition; (2) Defendants had actual or constructive knowledge that
injury is a probable, as opposed to possible, result of the danger; and (3)
Defendants exhibited a conscious failure to act to avoid the danger.” (FAC ¶
31.) Accordingly, the FAC prays for punitive damages. 
 
Defendant moved for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication of the following issues: (1) Defendant did not owe a duty to
Decedent since it does not own, possess, or control the navigable waters of
Shaver Lake; (2) Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the doctrine of recreational
immunity under Civil Code section 846; (3) Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the
doctrine of primary assumption of the risk; and (4) the punitive damages claim
fails. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies.  
 
The motion was originally heard on April 30, 2024. The matter was
taken under submission. On May 1, 2024, the Court granted summary judgment based
on the primary assumption of the risk doctrine. Since this issue was
dispositive, the Court declined to address Defendant’s remaining arguments.
(Min. Order, 5/1/24.) 
 
On August 2, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for new trial,
finding a triable issue of fact on the primary assumption of the risk issue
based on a new declaration provided by Plaintiffs’ expert Dr. Goll.[1]
(Min. Order, 8/2/24.) 
 
On August 19, 2024, Defendant filed a Notice stating that the parties
met and conferred and requested the Court to hear the remaining issues in its
summary judgment/adjudication motion. Accordingly, the remaining issues as set
forth in Defendant’s motion, are: (1) Defendant did not owe a duty to Decedent
since it does not own, possess, or control the navigable waters of Shaver Lake;
(2) Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the doctrine of recreational immunity
under Civil Code section 846; and (3) the punitive damages claim fails. 
 
Afterward, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Supplemental Authority on
September 18, 2024, and Defendant filed Objections to Plaintiffs’ Further
Evidence on September 20, 2024.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages,
or an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court grants the requests for judicial notice.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court overrules the following objections by Plaintiffs: 1–8. The
Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s objection number 9 as it has no effect on
the ruling herein. 
 
The Court sustains Defendant’s Objections numbers 1 to 7.
 
The Court overrules Defendant’s Objections to Further Evidence,
numbers 8 to 16. (See, e.g., Goll Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4; Howard Entertainment v.
Kudrow (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1119 [“As long as the expert has
sufficient experience in the industry and with the subject matter of his
testimony, he or she may give an expert opinion on that subject.”].)
 
DISCUSSION
The elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a
duty on the part of defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that
duty; and (3) harm to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.)
In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not only for the
result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another
by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her
property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of
ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code, §
1714.) Section 1714 “establishes the default rule that each person has a duty
to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of
others.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.)¿¿“[T]he
law imposes a general duty of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant
who has created a risk of harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant
is responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse. [Citation.]” (Id.
[internal quotation marks omitted].) 
A. Public Trust Doctrine  
The State of
California holds all of its navigable waterways and the lands lying beneath
them as trustee of a public trust for the benefit of the people.¿(Colberg
Inc. v. State ex rel Dept. of Public Works (1967) 67 Cal.2d 408, 416.)¿
Navigable waters and tidelands are held in trust for the benefit of all
Californians.¿ (National Audubon Society v. Superior Court, (“National
Audubon”) (1983) 33 Cal.3d 419, 434.) “[T]he Legislature, acting directly or through an
authorized agency such as the Water Board, has the power to grant usufructuary
licenses that will permit an appropriator to take water from flowing streams
and use that water in a distant part of the state…” (Id. at 446.)
“The public right of access to navigable waters is of
constitutional origin. [Citation.] ‘No individual, partnership, or corporation,
claiming or possessing the frontage or tidal lands of a ... navigable water in
this State, shall be permitted to exclude the right of way to such water
whenever it is required for any public purpose, nor to destroy or obstruct the
free navigation of such water; and the Legislature shall enact such laws as
will give the most liberal construction to this provision, so that access to
the navigable waters of this State shall be always attainable for the people
thereof.’ (Cal. Const., art. X, § 4.)” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v.
Superior Court (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 253, 258 [disapproved of on other
grounds by Hubbard v. Brown (1990) 50 Cal.3d 189].)  
 
Defendant argues that Shaver Lake, where Decedent’s drowning
occurred, was property held in trust by the State of California. As a result,
it argues since it only owns the shoreline adjacent to the lake, it had no duty
to warn of natural hazards within the lake. (Motion, 16.) However, given the
triable issue of fact regarding whether Defendant took actions that created
significant fluctuations in water temperature and excessive turbidity, the
question of ownership of the lake is not dispositive since a duty may arise
from conduct that creates a risk or makes a plaintiff’s condition worse. (See Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 214; Min.
Order, 8/2/24.) Defendant does not cite to authority that when a defendant has
a license to use the water and then uses it in a manner that allegedly causes
harm, the public trust doctrine nevertheless precludes liability. Therefore,
the motion for summary adjudication on this issue is denied. 
 
B. Civil
Code Section 846 
 
Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
claims are barred by the doctrine of recreational immunity under Civil Code
section 846.
 
Civil Code
section 846 provides that a “landowner ‘owes no duty of care’ to persons using
the land for recreation, either to maintain safe premises or to warn of
hazards…” thereby “absolv[ing] California landowners from two separate and
distinct duties: the duty to ‘keep the premises safe’ for recreational users,
and the duty to warn such users of ‘hazardous conditions, uses of, structures,
or activities’ on the premises.” (Klein v. United States of America
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 68, 78.) However, section 846 does not limit the liability
that otherwise exists for (1) “[w]ilfull or malicious failure to guard or warn
against a dangerous condition, use, structure, or activity[;] (2) [i]njury
suffered in any case where permission to enter for [a recreational] purpose was
granted for a consideration other than the consideration, if any, paid to said
landowner by the state, or where the consideration has been received from
others for the same purpose[; or] (3) [a]ny persons who are expressly invited
rather than merely permitted to come upon the premises by the landowner.” (Civ.
Code, § 846, subd. (c)(1)-(3).)¿¿ 
 
            Here,
Decedent’s death occurred while swimming in Shaver Lake. Though Defendant
asserts it has a license to use the water in the lake to generate electricity,
it does not show that it owns the lake or the water. (See UMF 4.) Indeed, based
on Defendant’s discussion of the public trust doctrine, it appears to argue
that under that doctrine, the water surface was owned by the State of
California. Therefore, because Defendant has not established that it owned the
land where Decedent drowned, it fails to meet its burden that section 846
applies. As a result, the Court will not discuss the exceptions to section 846.

 
C. Punitive Damages
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)¿ “‘Punitive
damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme
indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should
not have to tolerate.’¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code
section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests.¿ The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must
be found.”¿ (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)¿ The statute’s reference to despicable conduct
represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people.¿ Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’”¿ (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)¿ Further, “[t]here
must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous
consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these
consequences.”¿ (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins.
Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.)¿¿ 
¿ 
“[M]alice is the basis for assessing punitive damages for
nonintentional conduct; that is, acts performed without intent to harm.
[Citation omitted.] Nonintentional conduct comes within the definition of
malicious acts punishable by the assessment of punitive damages when a party
intentionally performs an act from which he knows, or should know, it is highly
probable that harm will result.” (Ford Motor Co. v. Home Ins. Co.¿(1981) 116
Cal.App.3d 374, 381.)¿A conscious disregard for the safety of others can constitute
malice if the plaintiff establishes that “the defendant was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor
v. Superior Court¿(1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 895–96.) 
 
“When the
defendant is a corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages against a
corporation ... must rest on the malice of the corporation's employees. But the
law does not impute every employee's malice to the corporation.’ [Citation.]
Instead, the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or
knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) ‘ “[M]anaging agent” ...
include[s] only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent
authority and judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that their
decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (Wilson v. Southern
California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164.) 
¿ 
“[A]lthough the “clear and convincing” evidentiary standard
is a stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove”
a case for punitive damages at summary judgment. [Citation omitted.] However,
where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing
evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on
a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is
to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the
evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.” (American
Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton¿(2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.) “Summary judgment or summary adjudication on the issue
of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the
plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or
oppression.” (Butte Fire Cases¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159)
(internal quotations omitted.)¿¿ 
 
Here, Defendant sets forth the following facts:
 
-       
In response to discovery, Plaintiff was unable to
identify any facts showing that any SCE Officer, Director, or Managing Agent
acted maliciously or willfully. (UMF 75.) 
-       
In response to a comprehensive interrogatory requesting
that Plaintiff identify all facts supporting her punitive damage claim against
SCE, Plaintiff did not identify any SCE Officer, Director, or Managing Agent
that acted with, authorized, or ratified any purported acts of oppression,
fraud, or malice by SCE. (UMF 76.) 
 
Plaintiffs
set forth the following facts:
 
-       
SCE was aware of seven drownings at Shaver Lake prior
to Jonathyn’s on July 7, 2020, including one in Eastwood Cove where Jonathyn
drowned. (PAMF 4.)
-       
Nevertheless, SCE posted no warnings about such
drownings. (PAMF 5.)
-       
SCE also did not investigate the causes of any of those
drownings. (PAMF 6.)
-       
SCE also did not implement any safety plans at Shaver
Lake to address the drownings. (PAMF 7.)
-       
SCE was aware of the risk of cold-water shock in Shaver
Lake. (PAMF 11.)
-       
SCE was also aware of the high water turbidity in
Shaver Lake. (PAMF 15.)
-       
Stewart, SCE manager of Camp Edison and forestry,
testified that SCE knew of prior drownings and other risks and did nothing.
(PAMF 96.) 
-       
Ostendorf, a Senior Manager, admits the same. (PAMF
97.) 
-       
Calemmo, who manages SCE property licenses, admits the
same. (PAMF 98.) 
 
Defendant
has met its initial burden to show that Plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably obtain sufficient evidence that an officer, director, or managing agent of
Defendant perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified oppression, fraud, or
malice. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs. Even assuming that the witnesses
Plaintiffs provide are properly considered “managing agents,”[2] Plaintiffs have
not set forth a triable issue of fact that they knowingly perpetrated, ratified,
or authorized conduct that is oppressive, fraudulent, or with malice.[3] Rather,
Plaintiffs generally argue that Defendant knew of the risk of drowning because
others had drowned and knew of the risks of cold-water shock and turbidity. No
argument is made that this constitutes oppression or fraud. Instead, Plaintiffs
appear to argue that this constitutes malice. (See Opposition at p.20 [“As
stated above, SCE managers showed ‘willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others’ as required to show ‘malice.’”].) However, as set
forth above, “ ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard
of the plaintiff’s interest.”[4] (College
Hospital Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at 725.) Accordingly, the motion for
summary adjudication of the punitive damages claim is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant
Southern California Edison Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment is denied.
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the punitive
damages claim. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


