

Hearing
Date:             March 22, 2024
Case
Name:                Poche v. Delirium
TV, LLC
Case
No.:                    24STCV00088
Matter:                        (1.) Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
                                    (2.) Motion
to Compel Arbitration                             
(3.) Motion for Preliminary
Injunction 
Moving
Party:             (1.)
Defendant Delirium TV, LLC
                                    (2.)
Defendant Netflix, Inc.
                                    (3.)
Plaintiff Renee Poche

Responding
Party:      (1.) Plaintiff Renee Poche
(2.) Plaintiff Renee Poche
(3.) Defendants
Delirium TV, LLC and Netflix, Inc.


Tentative
Ruling:      Defendants’ Motions to Compel
Arbitration are granted; the matter is stayed pending
resolution of arbitration. Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction
is denied. 

 
This dispute
arises from Plaintiff
Renee Poche’s participation in a television program and her effort to invalidate the
Participant Release and Agreement she entered in order to do so.
 
On January
2, 2024, Plaintiff Rene Poche (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint arising from her
appearance on the show, Love is Blind, an unscripted program produced by
Defendant Delirium TV, LLC (Delirium) and aired on Defendant Netflix, Inc.
(Netflix). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1.) violations of
government Code section 12964.5, (2.) violations of Labor Code section 432.5,
(3.) violations of Civil Code section 1668, (4.) unfair competition, (5.)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (6.) declaratory relief.  
 
Before Plaintiff’s
Complaint was filed, Defendant
Delirium initiated arbitration against Plaintiff for alleged breach of the
Participant Release and Agreement. 
 
On January
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking relief on
numerous grounds, including an order to stay Delirium’s arbitration proceeding
and enjoining Defendants’ enforcement of the parties’ Participant Release and
Agreement, which includes an Arbitration Agreement. Defendant Delirium TV, LLC and
Netflix, Inc. filed oppositions to the motion for a preliminary injunction. 
 
            On
February 2, 2024, Defendant Delirium filed a motion to compel arbitration. On
February 5, 2024, Defendant Netflix filed a separate motion to compel
arbitration. Plaintiff opposed both motions. Both Defendants rely on the arbitration
provision of the Participant Release and Agreement, with Netflix as a third-party
beneficiary.
 
            The motion to compel
arbitration is granted as to Defendants Delirium TV, LLC and Netflix, Inc. This matter
is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. The motion for a preliminary
injunction is denied in its entirety. 
 
            Evidentiary Issues
 
            Delirium’s evidentiary
objections are ruled as follows: Nos. 1, 4-7 are overruled, and Nos. 2-3 are
sustained. 
 
Netflix’s objections to the Sunshine
declaration are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-3 are overruled. Netflix’s objections
to the Poche declaration are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-4 are overruled. 
 
I.              
Motions to Compel Arbitration 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants Delirium
TV, LLC and Netflix,
Inc. move to
compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay this matter while the
arbitration is pending.
 
            Defendants
seek to compel arbitration based on the parties’ Participant Release and
Agreement (Agreement) signed by Plaintiff. (Secretov
Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Plaintiff
does not dispute the existence or validity of this Agreement. (Poche Decl., ¶¶ 4-8,
Ex. A.) In fact, Plaintiff attaches the Agreement to her Complaint. (Compl., ¶
16., Ex. A.) Plaintiff also does not argue that her claims do not fall within
the scope of the arbitration provision. Nor does Plaintiff argue that Netflix
does not have standing as a third-party beneficiary to enforce the Agreement for
the purposes of this motion.[1]
 
            Rather,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration provision (and other provisions) of the
Agreement are unenforceable because they divest Plaintiff of her statutory
rights under FEHA, divest her right to seek public injunctive relief, and
because the Agreement is unconscionable as a matter of law. 
 
            Importantly,
however, Plaintiff does not address the delegation clause argument contained in
both Defendants’ moving papers. That is, in both motions to compel arbitration,
Defendants argue the arbitration provision of the Agreement delegates all
threshold questions to the arbitrator to resolve. 
 
            “There are
two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language
of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the
delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud,
duress, or unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 231, 242;
see Rent-A-Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68, 69, fn. 1.) The “clear and
unmistakable” test reflects a “heightened standard of proof” that reverses the
typical presumption in favor of the arbitration of disputes. (Ajamian v.
CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 787.)
 
Here, the language delegating
authority to the arbitrator in the Agreement is clear and unmistakable. Specifically,
the arbitration provision of the Agreement states: “if any dispute, controversy
or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the breach of any term
hereof, or any effort by any party to enforce,
interpret and/or construe, rescind, terminate or annul this Agreement, or any
provision thereof, including without limitation the applicability of this
arbitration provision, and any and all disputes or controversies
relating in any manner to my appearance on or participation in and in
connection with the Program that are not otherwise barred or released pursuant
to the terms of this Agreement (collectively “Matters”) cannot be resolved
through direct discussions, the parties agree to endeavor first to resolve the
Matters by mediation conducted in the County of Los Angeles and administered by
JAMS . . . If any Matter is not otherwise resolved through direct discussions
or mediation, as set forth above, then the parties agree that it shall be
resolved by binding arbitration conducted in accordance with the Streamlined
Arbitration Rules and Procedures of JAMS, through its Los Angeles, California
office or its Houston, Texas office, as Producer may elect.” (Secretov
Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 68
[italics added].)
 
Based on the foregoing, the parties
have clearly agreed to delegate the Court’s responsibility to determine
arbitrability to the arbitrator to decide. (See e.g. Tiri v.
Lucky Chances, Inc., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 242 [determining parties agreed to
delegate questions regarding enforceability where agreement provided: “The
Arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have
the exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation,
applicability, enforceability, or formation of this Agreement, including, but
not limited to, any claim that all or any part of this Agreement is void or
voidable.”].)
 
            Plaintiff
does not address this threshold question of delegation in its opposition. Instead,
as noted above, Plaintiff challenges the enforceability of the arbitration
agreements as a whole. Plaintiff did not, however, challenge the validity of
the delegation provision, which empowers the arbitrator to rule on “any effort by any party to enforce,
interpret and/or construe, rescind, terminate or annul this Agreement, or any
provision thereof, including without limitation the applicability of this
arbitration provision.”
 
Because
Plaintiff did not challenge the delegation provision specifically, the
enforceability of the arbitration agreement as a whole must be decided by the
arbitrator. (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63,
75-76; Luxor Cabs, Inc. v. Applied Underwriters Captive Risk Assurance Co.
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 970, 979 [“[A] delegation clause nested in an arbitration
provision is severable from the remainder of the contract and the question of
its enforceability is for the court to decide if a
challenge is directed specifically at the validity of the delegation clause.”].) “[A]
party’s challenge to the arbitration agreement [as a whole] does not invalidate
the delegation clause, and therefore the arbitrator, and not a court, must
consider any challenge to the arbitration agreement as a whole.” (Tiri v.
Lucky Chances, Inc., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 240.)
 
Lastly, while Plaintiff does raise
issues of enforceability as matter of law and unconscionability in opposition,
she does so only with respect to the Arbitration Agreement as a whole. That
is, while Plaintiff’s procedural unconscionability argument is related to the
delegation clause because that clause applies to the entire Arbitration Agreement,
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that the delegation clause itself is
substantively unconscionable. Plaintiff does not dispute the Defendants’ argument that
the delegation clause is mutual because Plaintiff and Defendants are bound by it
equally. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 247.)
 
Plaintiff must show both procedural and
substantive unconscionability with respect to the delegation clause. Her
failure to do so renders the delegation clause enforceable and leaves the issue
of the Arbitration Agreement’s overall enforceability to the arbitrator to
decide. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 250.) 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court’s analysis ends here. The matter is delegated to the
arbitrator to decide all the substantive issues raised by Plaintiff’s
opposition to arbitration. 
 
II.           
Motion for Preliminary Injunction 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The
standards governing a preliminary injunction are well known. “[A] court will
deny a preliminary injunction unless there is a reasonable probability that the
plaintiff will be successful on the merits, but the granting of a preliminary
injunction does not amount to an adjudication of the merits.” (Beehan v.
Lido Isle Community Assn. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 858, 866.) “The function of
a preliminary injunction is the preservation of the status quo until a final
determination of the merits.” (Ibid.)
 
“Trial
courts traditionally consider and weigh two factors in determining whether to
issue a preliminary injunction. They are (1) how likely it is that the moving
party will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative harm the parties will
suffer in the interim due to the issuance or nonissuance of the injunction.” (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.) “[T]he greater the . . . showing on one, the less must be shown on
the other to support an injunction.” (Ibid.
[quoting Butt v. State of California,
(1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678].) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the
moving party “to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a
preliminary injunction.” (O'Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)
 
Preliminary
injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient
factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See
e.g., Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146,
150.) A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must also show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(4).)
 
A
preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the
plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may
sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the
plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
529, subd. (a); City of South San
Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th 916, 920.)
 
Discussion
 
Here, Plaintiff moves for a preliminary
injunction seeking the following relief against Defendants Delirium TV, LLC and
Netflix, Inc.::
 
An order enjoining them from “a. as
a condition of employment, requiring employees in the State of California or
subject to California law, to submit to contractual terms: 
i. preemptively releasing a claim or
right against the Enjoined Parties for violations of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act, California Government Code § 12900 et seq. (“FEHA”); 
ii. requiring an individual to
execute a statement that the individual does not possess any claim or injury
against the Enjoined Parties under FEHA; 
iii. waiving an individual’s right
to file and pursue a civil action or complaint with, or otherwise notify, a
state agency, other public prosecutor, law enforcement agency, or any court or
other governmental entity in connection with violations of FEHA; 
iv. preemptively releasing the
Enjoined Parties from liability for intentional misconduct; 
v. denying an individual the right
to disclose information about unlawful or unsafe working conditions or working
conditions reasonably believed to be unlawful or unsafe; 
b.
enforcing or attempting to enforce contractual terms set forth hereinabove; 
c. engaging in further unfair,
deceptive, or unlawful business practices in violation of Business &
Professions Code § 17200, et seq.;  
Additionally, Plaintiff seeks an
order enjoining Defendants pending the trial of this action from: 
a. initiating and/or pursuing
arbitration against Plaintiff Renee Poche pursuant to that certain Participant
and Release Agreement dated December 8, 2021 (the “Agreement”), including,
without limitation, the matter of Delirium TV, LLC v. Renee Poche currently
pending before JAMS (Ref. No. 520004454); 
b. enforcing any portion of the
Agreement during the pendency of this action.” (Proposed Order)
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court’s ruling on the motion to compel arbitration directly
moots portions of Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction, such as, for
example, Plaintiff’s request seeking to enjoin Defendants from “initiating and/or pursuing
arbitration against Plaintiff.” 
 
            However,
even to the extent that Plaintiff’s preliminary injunction motion is not
entirely moot, the Court’s ruling on the motions to compel arbitration adds a statutory
requirement that Plaintiff must now satisfy on her motion for preliminary
injunction. That is, having determined that Plaintiff’s claims (including
the arbitrability of Plaintiff’s claims) are for the arbitrator to resolve, the
Court can now only consider a preliminary injunction to the extent it complies
with Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.8.
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.8 provides in relevant part: “A party to an
arbitration agreement may file in the court in the county in which an
arbitration proceeding is pending, or if an arbitration proceeding has not
commenced, in any proper court, an application for a provisional remedy in
connection with an arbitrable controversy, but only upon the ground that the
award to which the applicant may be entitled may be rendered ineffectual
without provisional relief.” (Italics added.)
 
Under section
1281.8, when an arbitration agreement governs the parties’ dispute, the party
seeking the provisional remedy must demonstrate that any arbitration award
ultimately would be “ineffectual without provisional relief.” This additional
requirement is necessary to ensure “the court does not invade the province
of the arbitrator—i.e., the court should be empowered to grant provisional
relief in an arbitrable controversy only where the arbitrator's award may not
be adequate to make the aggrieved party whole.” (California Retail
Portfolio Fund GMBH & Co. KG v. Hopkins Real Estate Group (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 849, 856.)
 
The
ineffectual-relief requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.8 is
“similar to irreparable harm” as defined in the injunction context. (California
Retail Portfolio Fund GMBH & Co. KG v. Hopkins Real Estate Group (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 849, 857.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s argument and evidence on the balancing of harms is entirely deficient,
and the motion could be denied on this basis alone.   
 
As noted
above, the second part of the preliminary injunction analysis requires the
court to evaluate the harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the
preliminary injunction is denied compared to the harm the defendant is likely
to suffer if the injunction is issued. (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983)
35 Cal.3d 63, 69-70.) 
 
“’[T]the
extraordinary remedy of injunction’ cannot be invoked without showing the
likelihood of irreparable harm.” (Donahue Schriber Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu
Creation Outreach (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1184.) 
 
“Irreparable
harm may be established where there is the fact of an injury, such as that
arising from a breach of contract, but where there is an inability to ascertain
the amount of damage. In other words, to say that the harm is irreparable is
simply another way of saying that pecuniary compensation would not afford
adequate relief or that it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount
that would afford adequate relief.” (DVD Copy Control Assn., Inc. v.
Kaleidescape, Inc. (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 697, 722.) That is, an injunction
may issue to prevent wrongs “ ‘which occasion damages estimable only by
conjecture and not by any accurate standard. ’ ” (Ibid. [citation
omitted].) However, “[m]ere
litigation expense, even substantial and unrecoupable cost, does not constitute
irreparable injury.” (Renegotiation Bd. v. Bannercraft Clothing Co., Inc.
(1974) 415 U.S. 1, 24.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s motion points vaguely to being unable to “put[] the genie back in
the bottle” if the arbitration is allowed to proceed. (Mot., 15:15.) The motion
continues by arguing that Plaintiff will be “forced to incur unnecessary legal
fees and costs” and granting the preliminary injunction will “save[]both
parties the time and expense of arbitrating towards an award that can never be
confirmed.” (Mot., 15:21-22.) The reply merely reiterates that harm will result
from forcing Plaintiff to participate in arbitration. (Reply 8:22-9:14.) 
 
            First, while
Plaintiff employs much heated rhetoric, there is absolutely no evidence to
support Plaintiff’s claim of harm from arbitration in either the moving papers
or reply. (Mot., p. 15; Reply 8:22-9:14; see also Poche Decl., ¶¶ 1-13.)
 
            Further, participating
in arbitration, even if later deemed improper, does not constitute irreparable
harm. (See e.g., Camping Const. Co. v. District Council of Iron Workers (9th Cir.
1990) 915 F.2d 1333, 1349 [“The district court's principal error lies in its
assumption that unnecessarily undergoing arbitration proceedings constitutes
irreparable injury. That is simply not the case. First, the party objecting to
arbitration might well suffer no harm at all, irreparable or otherwise, for the
arbitration panel might decide in its favor.”]; Triangle Const. &
Maintenance Corp. v. Our Virgin Islands Labor Union (11th Cir. 2005) 425
F.3d 938, 947 [holding that the time and expense incurred in participating in
the arbitration proceedings would not constitute irreparable injury].)
 
More
importantly, however, the Court, as discussed above, has already determined
that Plaintiff’s claims are properly subject to resolution by an arbitrator. Thus,
on this basis Plaintiff has not demonstrated harm – let alone irreparable harm
– to warrant the issuance of preliminary injunction. For this reason, Plaintiff’s
papers also fail to demonstrate compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.8. 
 
Based on Plaintiff’s failure to demonstrate the competing harms prong weighs
in her favor by failing to show any harm at all, Plaintiff has not demonstrated
entitlement to a preliminary injunction during the pendency of the litigation. The motion
for a preliminary injunction is denied.[2]
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
motions to compel arbitration are granted; the matter is stayed pending
resolution of arbitration. A post-arbitration status conference will be set at
the hearing. Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction is denied. 


