  Case Number:  19SMCV01008    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to strike defendants’ supplemental expert
designation of Stephen Yates.  The action
overall is based on plaintiff’s claim that defendants used his image without
permission or authorization. 
Specifically, plaintiff agreed to pose as a fashion model for some of
defendants’ clothes (defendant is a clothing wholesaler).  The contract allowed defendants to use
plaintiff’s image for a specific period of time.  According to plaintiff, however, defendants
continued to use his image to sell goods long after the contract expired.  Among other things, plaintiff asserts that
the image was available for many years in an image gallery and that defendants
gave retailers specific instructions on how to misappropriate plaintiff’s
image.  Plaintiff seeks a recovery
therefor.  Defendants deny any
wrongdoing.  Although there are various
measures of damages that might apply, some go to profits or revenues defendants
received from the asserted misappropriation. 
The expert at issue goes to that.
 
The deadline to exchange experts occurred long ago.  The parties did an expert exchange and they
also exchanged supplemental experts as allowed by the Code of Civil
Procedure.  A supplemental expert is one
who is being called to rebut an expert disclosed in the other party’s expert
designation and for whom the exchanging party did not already designate an
expert.  This is topical, not individual.  In other words, the propriety of whether an
expert is a proper supplemental expert is based on the topic upon which
the other side’s expert is designated and whether the submitting party has
already designated an expert on the same topic.  The supplemental expert right is not an
excuse to swap out experts.  And, because
it cannot be used for a topic already covered in the original exchange, it
cannot (or should not) lead to cumulative testimony.
 
After much of the case was over, the parties (at the court’s
urging) agreed to allow a 437c(t) motion relating to the measure of
damages.  The court perceived that much
of the parties’ disagreement was based on whether plaintiff could recover
certain measures of damages.  However,
there exists no good procedure to challenge the measure of damages.  It is not susceptible to a motion for summary
adjudication generally because it does not go to a duty nor will it defeat an
entire cause of action or affirmative defense. 
It generally can only be brought in limine, which means on the
eve of trial, when a lot of work has already been done and the optimal time to
talk settlement may have passed.  It
could also be brought during trial, which is worse, or post trial, which is worse
still.  The court suggested the 437c(t)
method, which allows the parties to stipulate to ask the court to adjudicate an
issue beyond those that can be adjudicated of right—specifically, the measures
of damages permissible in this kind of case. 
The court ultimately ruled on the motion.  The court allowed certain damages theories
and not others.  The court did not,
however, rule on whether any particular number was allowed or on whether a
particular expert’s opinion on amount was sound.  Rather, the court believed that much of that
hinged on factual disputes (and thus was not appropriate for a summary
adjudication motion).  Thus, while some
issues were resolved relating to damages, others were not.
 
That led plaintiff to seek to re-open expert discovery so as
to allow their experts to opine on specific numbers in light of the court’s
comments at the hearing.  The court
granted the motion and noted that it worked both ways.  However, in general the court’s order did not
require re-opening the designation process, but rather only the discovery
itself—that is the specific opinions that would be offered, not the topics on
which they would be offered.
 
On January 17, 2024, plaintiff amended his expert
designation.  According to defendants,
plaintiff expanded the scope of the topics upon which the experts would
opine.  Specifically, defendants contend
that expert Hirschkorn’s scope was expanded and a new expert, Rybolt, was
added.  The court notes that the defense
has moved in limine to exclude plaintiff’s experts and the court has
also set aside two days for 402 hearings. 
Defendants state that Hirschkorn will now testify as to revenues
attributable to the use of plaintiff’s image in general, whereas before he was
limited in scope to revenues based on Amazon sales.  Rybolt, according to the defense, will also
testify as to the amount of revenues attributable to the use of plaintiff’s
image.  Defendants provided a
supplemental designation on January 31, 2024, and designated for the first time
expert Yates, who will rebut Hirschkorn’s testimony according to defendants.  More specifically, Yates is designated to
opine on “marketing, advertising and selling products on Amazon; amazon.com
listings using Plaintiff’s and/or other persons’ images to promote sales of
Bella + Canvas branded products; and the sales histories of those products
based on the use of Plaintiff’s or other persons’ images on Amazon; and the
amount of Defendants’ revenues, if any, that may or may not be attributable to
the use (including unconsented use) of Plaintiff’s likeness.”  Plaintiff responds by stating that the
1/17/24 designation was technical in nature and expended nothing.  Further, plaintiff claims, defendant already
had experts to opine on the subjects for which Yates has been designated (or at
least some of them).  Plaintiff also
complains that defendants did not provide Yates’s materials as ordered by the
court.  Plaintiff states that materials
were not provided in a timely manner, and worse that many materials have not
been provided to this day.
 
There are a number of issues the supplemental Yates
designation raises.  Of the four topics
upon which he is designated, the first three are “Amazon” related topics and
the fourth is on attribution.  The
problem is that the original February 17, 2023, designation by plaintiff
already covered this.  Hirschkorn was
designated to “testify concerning marketing, advertising and selling products
on Amazon; amazon.com listings using Plaintiff’s images to promote sales of
Defendants’ products; and the sales histories of those products based on the
use of Plaintiff’s images on Amazon.” 
The Amazon part of the Yates designation seems to track this quite
closely.  If defendants wanted to introduce
a supplemental expert on those topics, plaintiff argues (with some force) that
defendants needed to do so in their original supplemental designation, not
now.  Defendants elected not to include a
supplemental expert as to Amazon back on March 3, 2023, when they served their
supplemental designation.  But their
failure to do so a year ago hardly gives them the right to do so now.  Turning to the fourth Yates
topic—attribution—there are also problems. 
In their original expert designation, plaintiff designated expert
Bania.  He was to testify “concerning the
fair market value of Plaintiff’s likeness, the fair market value of the rights
Defendants used without Plaintiff’s consent, and the amount of revenues
attributable to the unconsented use of plaintiff’s images.”  In response, defendants listed (in their
supplemental designation of March 3, 2023) experts Anderson, Persechini,
Sedlik, and Einhorn.  True, some appear
to have been withdrawn, but not all. 
Because there is a timely designation to respond to the topic in
question, and because the topic in question is not new, it would seem that
plaintiff has a point that it is improper to add a new supplemental expert now.
 
Defendants respond by suggesting that the court already
opened up this avenue.  The defense is
wrong.  In its earlier orders, the court
did not re-open the time to designate new experts, nor did anyone ask the court
to do so.  And while the court did
discuss Yates, it was not in a full context nor was it meant to give Yates a
free pass as a late supplemental expert.
 
Defendants also claim that the Yates designation is proper
because of the amendment to the Hirschkorn designation in plaintiff’s January
17, 2024, designation.  The court is not
sure.  Hirschkorn’s designation was
indeed expanded to add attribution to the list of issues about which he would
testify.  Specifically, the following
language was added: “and the amount of Defendants’ revenues attributable to the
use (including unconsented use) of Plaintiff’s images.”  But this tracks almost word-for-word to the earlier
Bania designation.  While there could be
an issue as to whether plaintiff can swap out a topic for which Bania was
designated to allow Hirschkorn to testify, it would not necessarily allow
defendants to add a totally new supplemental expert (and the propriety of that
is not currently before the court). 
Defendants already designated an expert to testify on this topic.  The court does not understand why a change is
needed.  But that said, experts are not
fungible.  It could be that the change by
plaintiff requires a new approach by the defense.  The court has a hard time telling on this
record.
 
Even if the court could get beyond those problems, there is
still the problem of production. 
Pursuant to section 2034.280 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a
supplemental designation must be accompanied by all discoverable reports and
writings, if any, made by those additional experts.  Defendants produced some documents, but not
all documents, at least according to plaintiff. 
Defendants have two responses. 
The first is that the court set its own schedule—reports were to be
served three court days before the deposition. 
That, defendants suggest, supersedes the CCP’s rule.  But defendants miss the context.  The court was not describing newly named
supplemental experts.  Rather, the
designation had long passed.  Recall that
the original designations predated the summary adjudication ruling.  After that ruling, all parties and the court
recognized that additional expert work would have to be done.  Accordingly, the court set a schedule for
when additional reports would have to be produced.  Obviously, they could not be produced at the
time of designation because time travel is possible only on the SyFy
channel.  Thus, the court set a different
date.  But the court was not considering entirely
new experts being designated.  Relatedly,
plaintiff suggests that defendants did not even comply with that deadline.  The deposition was to start on a certain day
but, at defendants’ request, it was postponed for a few days.  However, the production was not delayed
(plaintiff states) and thus the defense missed even the three day limit.  The second theory the defense raises is that
the need for an exchange is only for party-demanded exchanges, while this
exchange was court ordered.  The court
does not view that as a serious argument in light of timing issues.
 
Of more concern, though, is Yates’s dual role.  Yates was apparently not recently
retained.  He was retained a while ago,
although not designated.  In other words,
he appears to have been retained as a consulting expert, not a testifying
expert.  The distinction is
significant.  A consulting expert’s
opinions and reports are typically work product.  Those reports are not discoverable nor do
they need to be produced.  As such, in
the real world we know that consulting expert’s reports might well be more candid
and balanced than those of a testifying expert. 
The court is not impugning testifying experts; the court is only nodding
to reality with regard to the fact that a testifying expert is being retained
to render an opinion for trial, not to advise counsel on how to proceed.  Of course, an expert might be retained with
an eye toward designation long before actually being designated.  And until actually designated, the expert’s
opinions and writings are work product. 
But, once the expert is designated as a testifying expert, all of the
reports are discoverable.  (Shadow
Traffic Network v. Superior Court 91994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1067.)  That means that when counsel retains an
expert as a consulting expert and considers changing the designation, counsel
must consider the consequences.  The
candid reports and advice that had been earlier given on the theory that the
information was work product suddenly may become discoverable.  That is not an unlimited waiver; it goes only
to the topics upon which the expert has been designated to testify.  But the line can be dicey.  That could be a problem here.  Plaintiff states that the belated production
did not include any material prior to February 1, 2024.  It is, of course, possible that Yates had
never done anything on this topic prior to that time.  But it is also possible that he did.  If he had any discoverable reports or
writings that predated February 1, 2024, they had to be produced.  Probably with the designation, but at a
minimum three days before the deposition. 
The court has no level of confidence that this was done.
 
In short, the court does not believe that plaintiff’s
January 2024, designation materially changed any of the topics on which
plaintiff had designated an expert. 
Because of that, it did not necessarily re-open the time for the defense
to supplement.  But that said, there was
a change.  Hirschkorn’s scope was
broadened and Rybolt appears to have been added.  It could be that those changes are large
enough to warrant naming Yates.  But the
court is also concerned that the defense simply had no one on the Amazon issue
during the prior exchange even though plaintiff quite plainly had designated an
expert on that topic.  It is troubling
that defendant waited until January 31, 2024, to respond to that.
 
What the court will do is to require defendants to produce
all discoverable writings and reports by Yates from the time he was first
contacted to the present (to the extent not already produced) on the topics for
which he is now designated.  That will be
done no later than Friday March 29, 2024. 
The production will be accompanied by a declaration from lead counsel
and Yates that this has been done and that nothing has been withheld.  If plaintiff, upon receipt of that material,
believes it needs to depose Yates again, plaintiff has leave to do so on 5
court days’ notice after a reasonable meet and confer to see about agreeing
upon a time and place.  Beyond that, the
court will CONTINUE this hearing to April 15, 2024, at 9:00 am (which is when
the hearings are set on the in limine motions.  That said, though, the court warns that there
is a good chance that the matter will be continued again.  Much of this might best be decided after the
402 hearings in this case, which will provide the court with a great deal of
context for not only the in limine motions, but this one as well.