 Case Number:  21SMCV00857    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  I The case is here for an FSC. 
The court has severed the cross-complaint as against Srivastava and also
Srivastava’s cross-complaint against others. 
The remainder of the case is going forward.
 
The matter was here for a final status conference on
February 5, 2024.  At that time, the
court deemed the matter not ready for trial because it had not received any
final status conference materials other than two in limine motions.  Since that time, UMRO (which the court uses
as a shorthand for all defendants to the complaint and also all
cross-complainants other than Srivastava) has sought to continue the trial, but
its request was denied.  Sravastava
sought to continue the trial and the court severed his part of the case and
continued his part of the trial. 
Sravastava was agreeable to that resolution, but UMRO objected.  UMRO’s objection was overruled.
 
On February 13, 2024, the court received the following
documents from plaintiff: (1) Witness List; (2) Exhibit List; (3) Jury
Instructions—Special; (4) Jury Instructions—CACI.  Plaintiff also filed a declaration concerning
the status of the joint trial documents. 
In the declaration, it appears that plaintiff had made an effort to meet
and confer on the FSC as of December 15, 2023, but the defense thought it was
premature (the defense was wrong about that). 
On January 18, 2024, plaintiff reached out again, but defense counsel
did not respond.  Plaintiff’s counsel
again tried to discuss FSC materials between February 2, 2024, and February 12,
2024.  However, defense counsel did not
submit FSC materials to plaintiff in a timely way.  In plaintiff’s declaration, plaintiff’s
counsel stated that the parties had met and conferred on special jury
instructions and was hopeful that the jury instructions could be stipulated to
in short order.  Plaintiffs confirmed
that the materials they filed on February 13, 2024, were final from plaintiffs’
perspective.  Defendant lodged jury
instructions on Friday, March 22, 2024. 
This morning, a slew of new papers were filed.  They include more jury instructions, a
witness list, two notices to appear in lieu of subpoenae, and a notice of
unusual issues dealing with video.  The
jury instructions are a set of joint instructions and one special instruction
proposed by plaintiffs.  The joint
witness list now has 45 hours of direct examination and 32.25 hours of cross
for a total of 87.25 hours.  That is
about 20 days of testimony in this courtroom, but the court recognizes that
witness lists are documents of preclusion such that there is an understandable
tendency to estimate high rather than low. 
The court will inquire as to the parties’ good faith actual trial
estimate for testimony, as discussed below.
 
The court remains concerned as to exhibit lists and will
discuss the matter with the parties.
 
Taking plaintiff’s submissions as unilateral, the court has
the following comments.  Plaintiff lists
48 exhibits.  Defendant has not commented
on the list.  Defendants’ objections to
exhibits are therefore WAIVED as to authenticity.  The court ORDERS UMRO to provide good
faith objections as to the documents no later than noon on Tuesday, March
26, 2024, with a courtesy copy to the court. 
Boilerplate objections will be stricken. 
Failure to do so will be deemed a waiver of all objections.  That said, the court understands that
defendant has the right to force plaintiff to lay a foundation.  The court nonetheless notes that if, as the
trial goes forward, it becomes clear that there is no good faith basis to the
foundation objection (such as correspondence between the parties that no one
questions), the court will consider that to be indicative of a pattern to make
bad faith objections, and the court will treat all of the trial objections in
that light.  The court, on its own
motion, ORDERS PLAINTIFFS to provide the bates number or date of all
communications where no date has yet been provided.  That will be filed no later than 4:00 pm,
today, March 25, 2024, and served electronically on the defense with a courtesy
copy to the court.  That is especially
important for things like exhibit 18, “Chris Hicks D Cortese Text Chain.”  The point is to make the document easily
identifiable for all parties and the court and to that the court can assure
itself that each exhibit is truly one exhibit and not many exhibits mis-labeled
as a single exhibit.
 
Because UMRO has not submitted an exhibit list, UMRO IS
BARRED FROM INTRODUCING ANY EXHIBIT AT TRIAL. 
However, UMRO may rely on any exhibit plaintiffs actually admit.   
 
The parties are ORDERED TO MEET AND CONFER on a joint short
statement of the case, which shall be submitted to the court no later than
Wednesday, March 27, 2024, at noon.  If
the parties cannot agree, they will file a red-line with plaintiffs’ suggested
red-lined against UMRO’s suggestion.  At
the same time, the parties are to provide the court with a good faith estimate
as to the total number of hours of evidentiary presentation that the parties
anticipate, all in, and a good faith estimate as to the total number of hours
for the trial, all in including voir dire. 
The court will use this to inform the jury as to the trial’s length,
which will be important to them for hardship issues.  The court will hold the parties to their
estimates and will divide the time 50/50. 
Each side will be “charged” with the time it is conducting examination
or on the record, except that voir dire will be divided 50/50 as will the time
the court is instructing the jury.  The
court understands that trials can provide unexpected curve balls.  For good cause, the court will allow
additional time.
 
The court does not know if the parties have retained a court
reporter.  If not, then the parties are
ORDERED at the conclusion of each day of trial to have lead counsel MEET AND
CONFER to arrive at an agreed settled statement.  The meeting will last until the earlier of:
(1) reaching an agreement; or (2) midnight. 
No later than 9:30 on the following court day, the parties will submit
the agreed statement to the court.  If
the parties cannot agree, they will submit plaintiffs’ proposal red-lined
against defendants’ proposal.  On even
numbered calendar days, plaintiffs will be responsible for the submission.  On odd numbered calendar days, defendants
will be responsible for the submission. 
(That refers to the day of trial, not the day of submission.)  Alternatively, the parties may elect to waive
appeal, although the court STRONGLY ADVISES AGAINST IT.  The point of the settled statement is to have
a record for appeal of what occurred during the trial (beyond that reflected in
the Clerk’s Transcript).  If there is no
appeal, there is no need for the statement. 
The reason that the court is ordering daily meetings is because too
often the process begins after the notice of appeal is filed, which could be
months after the trial has concluded.  By
that time, memories have faded—especially the court’s memory.  Yet the parties must either agree or the
court must settle the statement.  In the
court’s experience, the sooner that is done, the better.
 
The parties will lodge on the first day of trial the
following trial notebooks.  Volume 1: (1)
The operative complaint; (2) the operative answer; (3) any substantive rulings
made by the court that are binding at trial; (4) the witness list; (5) the
exhibit list; (6) the short statement of the case; and (7) motions in limine
and rulings.  Volume 2: Jury Instructions
as they are to be read to the jury (meaning no brackets or the like).  Volume 3: Exhibit binder.  The parties will also lodge the deposition
transcripts of any witnesses on the witness list.  The parties should also inform the court
before the jury venire is brought in whether they want to do “mini-openings” to
the venire.  If they do, they will be
limited to 5 minutes per side. 
 
For voir dire, the court generally gives the venire and
introductory statement and reads the short statement of the case.  The court then allows the parties to give
mini-openings if they have chosen to do so. 
The court then gives additional information about the case—such as the
list of witnesses and the estimated length. 
The court then deals with hardships, releasing jurors for the remainder
of the day who do not claim hardship. 
The court asks the parties to meet and confer regarding any jurors to
which they will stipulate there is a hardship or to which they both believe
there is no hardship.  The court then
conducts the examination.  Note that this
is before voir dire.  The remaining
venire typically convenes the next day and voir dire begins.  The court generally uses a “six-pack”
procedure.  Voir dire begins the court,
then with plaintiffs, and then goes to defendants.  Voir dire may be had as to all 18 jurors
first selected, although the court will discuss whether voir dire can be had as
to the entire venire (it depends on how many there are in the venire).  When voir dire is concluded, the court will
typically excuse the jury or conduct a side-bar with counsel to discuss
challenges for cause.  The defense goes
first and makes all challenges for cause the defense wishes to make.  A challenge for cause can be made as to any
juror for whom there was voir dire. 
After the defense, plaintiffs will make their challenges for cause.  When those challenges are resolved, the
successfully challenged jurors are excused, the venire reconvenes, and the
“box” is filled to the extent of successful cause challenges.  After that, plaintiffs and defendants may
exercise peremptory challenges, alternating between plaintiffs and defendants
with plaintiffs going first.  Peremptory
challenges may only be made to the 12 jurors in the box.  A “pass” by one side does not use a challenge
nor does it establish that the remaining jurors are immune from peremptory
challenge.  If the box cannot be filled
due to challenges, additional names will be called for the six pack.  Voir dire will then go forward as to the
newly-called prospective jurors only, after which the court will go through the
cause procedure (as to the newly called jurors only) and then peremptory
challenges, which can be made against any juror in the box.  If a party makes a Batson/Wheeler
motion, it must do so before the challenged juror is actually excused.  The reason is so that the court can re-seat
the juror if the challenge is successful. 
When the 12 members of the jury are chosen, the court will utilize a
similar procedure regarding alternates, still using the “six pack.”  The jurors are usually sworn when the panel
and alternates have been selected.  In
the event that a second venire is needed, the court will discuss procedure with
the parties.  The court reminds the
parties that, while some latitude is allowed during voir dire, the court will
not allow pre-conditioning of the panel.
 
As to witnesses, the court is generally willing to take
witnesses out of order where necessary, although it is not preferred.  The court expects each party to provide the
other with the witnesses it expects to call for the next two trial days at the
end of each day including the order in which those witnesses will be
called.  Under no circumstances will the
court allow a party to have no witnesses ready. 
If a party lacks a witness ready to be called, the court will deem that
party to have rested its case.  That
means that witnesses should be in the hall at all times ready to testify until
and unless the court says otherwise or it is certain that the witness will not
be needed that day.  The court will not
allow speaking objections.  The court
asks the parties to do no more than object and, in a word or two, state the
grounds.  If the court needs a side bar,
it will ask for one.  The court will not
allow a response to an objection unless requested by the court.
 
The FSC is CONTINUED to 9 am Thursday morning, March 28,
2024.  Lead counsel will attend.  Other trial counsel may also be present, but
the court expects to see lead counsel present in court (not remote).  The court will inquire at that time as to the
good faith actual estimate and whether the parties want witnesses
excluded.  
 
Assuming that the case remains READY FOR TRIAL, the court
will issue its in limine rulings orally at the continued FSC.  The court notes that it is somewhat
disappointed that materials were filed TODAY, which is remarkably
untimely.  This problem was identified at
the last FSC and it would appear that the parties sat on their hands
(especially the defense) until the eve of this hearing before doing anything
about it.  The court admonishes the
defense that unpreparedness of this sort will not be tolerated at trial, when
jurors are devoting their time to the case.