 Case Number:  19SMCV02145    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer to the cross-complaint.  The cross-complaint, brought by Channel,
seeks indemnity and contribution by Primex. 
Channel is the general contractor hired to do construction work on
property owned by plaintiff Amin.  Primex
was the owner’s representative.  Amin
sues Channel, alleging construction defects. 
Purportedly based on a deposition in which Channel learned of Primex’s
role, Channel sues Primex for equitable indemnity and contribution.  Primex demurs.
 
The court begins with the misjoinder argument.  Misjoinder is proper where some third party
is necessary or indispensable to the action and must be joined in order to
proceed or the plaintiffs do not have a sufficient unity of interest or there
is no common question of law or fact as to the defense.  The defect must appear on the complaint’s
face.  (Royal Surplus Lines, Inc. v.
Ranger Ins.Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193.) 
The demurrer also requires a showing of prejudice.  The court does not see misjoinder here.  Primex contends that only Channel could have
been liable for the torts alleged in the complaint, that is not enough.  The gist of the argument is a lack of facts,
not misjoinder.  
 
Which brings the court to uncertainty.  That ground is also not well founded.  Demurrers on uncertainty are disfavored, and
generally sustained only when the court (or the defendant) cannot figure out
what the facts are giving rise to liability. 
(Lickiss v. Fin. Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125.)  Again, that is not
the problem here.  The real problem is a
lack of facts giving rise to a cause of action. 
The demurrer stands or falls on that.
 
And that brings the court to the real argument: Primex
contends that there is just no basis for liability by it to Channel.  That is a much closer question.  Implied indemnity requires no contractual
relationship between the parties.  It is
premised on a joint legal obligation to another for damages and it need not be
complete—it can be proportional.  (Prince
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151.)  In earlier discussions, the court was
concerned about whether there is enough here for a potential finding that
Primex and Channel were joint tortfeasors. 
In this case, Primex had a contract with the owner and Channel had a
contract with the owner, but Primex and Channel had no contract between them.  Further, Channel was the General
Contractor.  Its contract with the owner
states that it is solely responsible for the construction.  Thus, the court questioned whether Primex
could be liable to Channel for indemnity based on construction defects.  True, as the owner’s representative, Primex
did have duties to the owner, some of which might well be implicated by the
alleged defects, but that does not mean that those duties carried over to
Channel.  Further, indemnity requires
that there be joint and several liability. 
(Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 1109.)  The court had some
concern there.
 
That said, though, the court believes that the current
iteration of the cross-action is sufficient. 
It is settled that two unrelated entities may have joint tort liability
to the plaintiff.  Where the negligent
acts of both are a proximate cause of an indivisible injury, there is joint and
several liability.  (American
Motorcycle Assn. v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 578.)  Thus, the court focuses not on the
relationship of the purported joint tortfeasors to one another, but on their
relationship to the plaintiff.  (Jaffe
v. Huxley Architecture (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1188; Gem Developers v.
Hallcraft Homes of San Diego, Inc. (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 419.)  That is why, in the instant case, Primex’s
theory that Channel’s contract with the owner made it “solely” responsible does
not answer the question.  That might well
be that as against the owner Channel could not reduce the jury’s award
for something related to a construction defect. 
But that is a contractual requirement and does not bar the owner from
suing another or from Channel claiming indemnity.  (For example, were Channel judgment proof, it
would hardly make sense that the contract with Channel would insulate others
from liability if they also were negligent and caused the injury.)  Channel never agreed with Primex that Channel
would be solely responsible for anything. 
Nor can Primex claim it was some kind of third party beneficiary of the
contract between the owner and Channel. 
That doctrine simply cannot stretch so far.  The court is aware that the owner did not
choose to sue Primex.  But equitable
indemnity does not require that there actual be a jury finding of joint and
several liability.  The doctrine (as the
term “equitable indemnity” implies) is based on equity and fairness as
between the two or more entities that caused the harm.  The plaintiff cannot insulate one of those
who caused harm against indemnity to another.
 
To illustrate, consider the following.  Owner hires an asbestos removal company to
remediate an asbestos problem in a property just purchased.  The removal company is owned by the owner’s
brother.  Because asbestos removal is so
important, the owner also hires an oversight company to look over the work done
by the removal company to be sure it is done right.  As it turns out, the removal company misses
some of the asbestos and the oversight company does not catch the error.  Fortunately, the problem is discovered before
anyone is hurt, but because of the asbestos’s location, the whole house must be
torn down and rebuilt to solve the problem. 
The owner sues the oversight company, but not the removal company (to
keep peace in the family).  The court
would think, under Leko, that the oversight company could sue the
removal company for indemnity.  And if
the familial relationship were flipped—the oversight company is owned by the
brother rather than the removal company—and so only the removal company were
sued, it would seem the same would hold. 
Surely a jury might find the removal company more at fault than the
oversight company, but that does not mean that there would be no indemnity at
all.  
 
Primex also seems to argue that it is essentially an
extension of the owner.  Maybe; maybe
not.  That is a fact question, though,
that cannot be resolved on demurrer.  
 
Primex also contends that the suit does not lie because
there has been no payment yet.  Of
course, it is true that Channel has paid no money.  But it has long been the case that indemnity
actions can be brought before a judgment is entered or paid.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.70; People ex rel.
Dept. of Transportation v. Superior Court (1980) 26 Cal.3d 744.)
 
Of course, Primex may not have been at fault at all here, in
which case it will owe no indemnity.  But
that is a matter for summary judgment or trial, not demurrer.  The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED.  Primex to answer within 15 court days.