 Case Number:  22TRCV00309    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                        Tuesday, March 12, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Dennis
Perry, et al. v. Sheazad Rajani, et al.  
22TRCV00309
1.      Kairunnisha Rajani’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Kairunnisha Rajani’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on April 22, 2022. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs are tenants of a property located at 5408
W. 149th Pl. Unit #3 Hawthorne, California, 90250. The property suffers from
numerous habitability problems including electrical issues, leaks, and mold.
Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2.
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; 3. Refund for Security Deposit and
Penalty for Bad Faith Retention; 4. Negligence.  
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 435.5.  (Decl. Alexander
J. Petale, Esq.) 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendant’s notice of motion states
the following: “Defendant [. . .] move[s] this Court, for an Order striking the
punitive damages allegations from the Plaintiffs (sic) Complaint, on file
herein, on the following grounds: 1) The statutory grounds as found in Code of
Civil Procedure § 436. 2) The allegations of the Complaint are insufficient to
sustain any plea for punitive and exemplary damages, as the Complain fails to
allege facts sufficient to sustain a reasonable inference that the Defendants have been guilty of fraud,
oppression or malice, or that said defendants have engaged in any acts, which
could be reasonably construed to be fraudulent, malicious or Oppressive (sic).”
(Notice of Motion, page 1, line 25 to page 2, line 3).
 
            Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(a)
states: “A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must quote in
full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an
entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications in a
notice must be numbered consecutively.” Here, the notice of motion did not
comply with Rule 3.1322(a). However, the Court notes that, in the memorandum of
points and authorities, Defendant did finally specify the items sought to be
stricken as follows: “Accordingly, any reference to or claim for punitive
damages must be stricken from the Complaint as follows: 1) on page 4 of the
Complaint, at line 12; “Accordingly, Plaintiffs are entitled to punitive
damages in an amount to be proven at trial.;” should be stricken. 2) On page 9
of the Complaint, within the Prayer, paragraph 2 at line 10 as follows: “For
punitive damages in an amount necessary to punish Defendants;” should be
stricken.” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities, page 5, line 28 to page 6,
line 2). Plaintiffs did not object to the failure to comply with Rule
3.1322(a). The Court determines that the motion has sufficiently specified the
specific items sought to be stricken and will proceed to rule on the merits.
 
            Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in
relevant part:
            “(a) In an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
            (b) An employer shall not be liable
for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
            (c) As used in this section,
the following definitions shall apply:
            (1) “Malice” means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
            (2) “Oppression” means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
            (3) “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
            “[I]t is clear that the availability
of a remedy for breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a
tenant from suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if
the landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” Id. “[I]f the tenant wrongfully evicted elects to sue in
tort, damages may be awarded for mental anguish and pain or physical injury;
exemplary damages may also be recovered when the landlord's conduct justifies
the award[.]” Id. at 926.
 
            Here, however, Plaintiff has failed
to set forth facts specific facts to support the elements of malice,
oppression, or fraud. Plaintiffs allege that they discovered numerous problems
with the property including electrical issues, water leaks, and mold, and that
Defendant failed to remedy the issues. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant
withheld the security deposit. Plaintiff then intersperses, within these
factual allegations, conclusions that the Defendant’s actions were done
willfully, intentionally, and consciously without the underlying specific facts
to support these conclusions.
 
            These allegations are not sufficient
to show that Defendant acted despicably with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others or acted despicably subjecting Plaintiffs to
cruel and unjust hardship. Plaintiffs have merely alleged conclusions.
            
            Thus, Plaintiffs fail to set forth
sufficient specific facts that Defendant acted willfully, maliciously,
intentionally, and/or recklessly to support Plaintiff’s allegations of punitive
damages under these causes of action. 
 
            Therefore, the motion to strike is
granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
            