  Case Number:  19TRCV00072    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Tuesday, March 12, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 7
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Jewelry Center, LLC, et al. v. Brittany Artiano, et
al. 
            19TRCV00072
1.      Jewelry
Center, LLC, et al.’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment and to
Dismiss Action as to Artiano Appetizers, only
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Jewelry
Center, LLC, et al.’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment and to
Dismiss Action as to Artiano Appetizers, only is granted. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 24, 2019. Plaintiff alleges the following facts.
This is a commercial unlawful detainer action. 
            
            Motion
to Set Aside Default
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            CCP §
473.5(a) states, in relevant part: “When service of a summons has not resulted
in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or
default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she
may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action. 
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time,
but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a
default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or
her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.”

 
            CCP §
473.5(b) states: “A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment
and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for making the
motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be
accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice
a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the
action.” The phrase “actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party
litigant” and does not include constructive or imputed notice to the client. Tunis
v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077.
 
            “After
six months from entry of default, a trial court may still vacate a default on
equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.  . . . One ground for equitable relief is
extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances extrinsic to the
litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits. Extrinsic
mistake is found when [among other things] ... a mistake led a court to do what
it never intended[.] When a default judgment has been
obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Plaintiff
moves to set aside the default and default judgment as to Defendant Artiano’s
Appetizer and to dismiss the action as to Artiano’s Appetizer pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b). The motion is brought on the grounds that the
default and default judgment was the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion was filed and served on December 12, 2023. Default as to Artiano’s
Appetizer was entered on February 21, 2019. Thus, clearly, the instant motion
was not brought within six months of the entry of default as required pursuant
to CCP § 473(b). 
 
            However,
the Court finds that the equitable power of the Court may be invoked to grant
the motion. Certainly, Defendant cannot argue that it would be prejudiced by
having its own default and default judgment set aside and its dismissal
entered. 
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the default and default judgment and to dismiss
Defendant Artiano’s Appetizer is granted. 
 
             Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 