  Case Number:  23CHCV01816    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    5/24/24     Case    Name:  Mary Beltran Del Rio v. T.J.    Maxx of CA, LLC; and Does 1 to 10     Case    # 23CHCV01816      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MAY 24, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL ATTENDANCE AND  TESTIMONY OF PAUL KANGAS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV01816    Motion  filed: 12/29/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Mary Beltran Del Rio  (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant T.J. Maxx of CA, LLC  (“Defendant”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order compelling Defendant to produce its employee Paul Kangas at deposition to  answer questions and produce documents, and imposing sanctions of $2,450.00  against Defendant and its attorney of record.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from alleged personal injuries that  Plaintiff sustained in Defendant’s department store on July 13, 2021.    On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against  Defendant and Does 1 to 10, alleging one cause of action for Premises  Liability. Subsequently, Defendant filed its Answer to the Complaint on July  21, 2023.               On  December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Attendance and  Testimony of Paul Kangas (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on April 26, 2024,  Defendant filed its Opposition, and Plaintiff replied on May 17, 2024.   ANALYSIS   Any party may obtain discovery by  taking the oral deposition of any person in California. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2025.010.) If the deponent is a party, the notice, by itself, compels  the production of the documents. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.280, subd.  (a).)   “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the  action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a  person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,  without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear  for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any  document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling  the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)   A.     Meet and  Confer Requirements   "The motion shall be  accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when  the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,  electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition  notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent  to inquire about the nonappearance." (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.  (b)(2).) This meet and confer declaration “shall state facts showing a  reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue  presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)    Here, on October 19, 2023, Plaintiff served the notice  of deposition at issue upon Defendant for producing its employee Paul Kangas,  the signatory of the verifications for Defendant’s written discovery responses,  at the deposition for November 3, 2023. (Baker Decl. ¶ 2.) Subsequently,  Defendant served its written objections to Plaintiff’s notice of deposition. (Id.  ¶ 3.) Following this, Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet and confer email on  October 27, 2023, detailing the issues and arguments raised in the Motion. (Id.  ¶ 4.) On November 1, 2023, Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s meet and confer  letter, maintaining that it had served valid objections, and that neither its  counsel’s office nor the deponent was available and would not be appearing. (Id.  ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff produced an affidavit from  the deposition officer, stating the failure of the witness to appear for  deposition. (Id. Ex. “5.”)   Based on the above record, the Court finds that although  Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s October 27, 2023, meet and confer letter,  its response merely comprised one sentence confirming nonappearance, but  neither substantively discussed the issue as raised in Plaintiff’s letter, nor  expressed its willingness to arrange an alternative date. Consequently, it seems  to the Court that it would be futile for Plaintiff to ask for the reason for  Defendant’s nonappearance again on November 3, 2023, two days after Defendant’s  response, when Defendant ultimately failed to appear at the deposition.   Therefore, the Court concludes that the meet and  confer requirements have been satisfied.   B.      Motion to  Compel Attendance and Testimony   Plaintiff brings the Motion  under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 which is premised  on the absence of valid objections and the failure to appear at the deposition  by the party served with the notice. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.  (a).)   Here, it is uncontradicted  that the deponent did not appear at the deposition. Consequently, the Court  proceeds to examine the validity of Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s notice  of deposition served on October 19, 2023.   1)       Defendant’s  Objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition   In the Motion, Plaintiff  asserts that Defendant raised its objections on three grounds: (1) that the  service of the notice was untimely; (2) that the deponent, Paul Kangas, was  unavailable; and (3) that the deponent does not have independent knowledge of  the incident. (Mot. at p. 5, Baker Decl. Ex. “2,” Stone Decl. Ex. “A.”)  Plaintiff argues that these objections are not proper responses. The Court  agrees.   i.                     The Service of Notice  of Deposition Was Timely   With regard to the  timeliness of the Motion and its required notice period, Code of Civil  Procedure section 2025.270 states, “An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a  date at least 10 days after service of the deposition notice.”   Here, it is uncontested that  Plaintiff served the notice of deposition at issue by email on October 19,  2023, establishing the notice period to exhaust on November 1, 2023, based on  10-calendar-day notice period plus two-court-day extension based on the method  of service. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (a)(3).) The deposition was  scheduled for November 3, 2023, thus meeting the notice period requirement  under the codes. In contrast, Defendant’s argument merely conclusorily states  that “[t]he objection was served on October 26, 2023, on the grounds that the  deposition notice violated Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.270(a.)[,]” without  providing legal analysis or citing authorities.    Consequently, the Court  finds Plaintiff’s notice of deposition to be timely.   ii.                   Defendant’s Objections  Do Not Stay the Deposition   Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.280 subdivision  (a) provides that service of a deposition notice “is effective to require any  deponent who is a party to the action [] to attend and to testify, as well as  to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing  for inspection and copying.”   The objecting party’s  written objection does not stay the taking of the deposition. To do so, the  objecting party should move to quash the deposition notice and stay the taking  of the deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410 (c) [“In addition to  serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the  taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. The motion shall  be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. The  taking of the deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.”])   Here, the case record does  not indicate the filing of a motion to stay the deposition or a motion to quash  the notice of deposition.   Given the Court’s finding  that the notice was served timely, it further determines that Defendant’s  objections served on October 26, 2023, do not stay the deposition.   iii.                 Unavailability of the  Deponent Does Not Justify the Nonappearance   As discussed above, the  opposing party’s written objections do not stay the deposition. Moreover,  Defendant, asserting its deponent’s unavailability, did not seek to work with  Plaintiff to arrange for an alternative date.    The Court notes that  unavailability by itself is not a substantial justification for an opposing  party’s failure to submit to an authorized method of discovery.    iv.                 Lack of Independent  Knowledge Is Not A Valid Ground.   "For  discovery purposes, information is relevant if it 'might reasonably assist a  party in evaluating the case, preparing  for trial, or facilitating settlement. Admissibility is not the test and  information unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to  admissible evidence." (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001)  87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013.)               If  a party is a corporation, one of its officers or agents shall sign the response  to discovery inquiries under oath on behalf of that party. (See Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.250, subd. (b).)               In Castaline v. City of Los  Angeles (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 580, 588, footnote 7, the court  commented on a corporation's duty to answer interrogatories, as follows: “While  a corporation or public agency may select the person who answers  interrogatories in its behalf, it has a corresponding duty to obtain  information from all sources under its control—information which may not be  personally known to the answering agent.”   Here, the deponent, Paul Kangas, was designated by Defendant  to verify its written discovery responses, as he signed the verification forms.     Defendant argues that its objection is valid based on the  grounds that its employee deponent, Paul Kangas, does not have “independent  knowledge of the incident.” (Baker Decl. Ex. “2,”  Stone Decl. Ex. “A.”) However, in its verified  responses to Plaintiff written discoveries, the signatory, Paul Kangas,  identified himself as follows: “... Senior Vice Present Chief Risk and  Compliance Officer, ... makes these responses for and on behalf of TJX, but  state that many of the facts set forth in such answers are not within his  personal knowledge, having been assembled and compiled within the employ of TJX  at his direction, as to which facts he is informed and believes the same to be  true and that the remaining facts are known by him to be true. (Opp’n. at pp.  3-4, Stone Decl. ¶ 7.)   The Court rejects Defendant’s argument for several reasons.  Firstly, Defendant acknowledged in its verified responses that, besides Defendant’s  employees assembling and compiling the facts “at his direction,” “the remaining  facts are known by him to be true.” (Stone Decl. ¶ 7.) Secondly, as outlined in  Castaline v. Los Angeles, supra, Paul Kangas has a corresponding  duty to obtain information and thus have personal knowledge about the sources  under his control. Thirdly, the scope of discoverable information is broad and  is not limited to only “independent knowledge of the incident.” The deponent is  allowed to state his lack of information on a question-by-question basis during  the deposition; however, a blanket objection based on no personal knowledge is  premature.   Consequently, the Court finds that Defendant’s argument that  Paul Kangas has no independent knowledge of the incident is irrelevant and does  not substantially justify its position that he is not subject to an authorized  discovery method.   2)       Defendant’s Argument of Paul  Kangas Being “Apex” Employee   Plaintiff advances another  argument in its Opposition that Paul Kangas is its “apex employee,” arguing  that Plaintiff cannot meet the high standard for deposing him, citing Liberty  Mutual Ins. Co, v. Superior Court of San Mateo County (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th  1282, 1289 (Liberty Mutual). (Opp’n. at p. 6.)   The Court notes  that Liberty Mutual does not apply to preclude Paul Kangas’s  deposition. In Liberty Mutual, the plaintiff  sought to depose Liberty Mutual's president and chief executive officer as part  of her initial discovery demands, even though he had no connection to or  information about the case. The Liberty  Mutual court noted that allowing a party to depose a corporate officer at  the “apex” of the corporate hierarchy before less intrusive discovery has been  conducted raises a “tremendous potential for discovery abuse and harassment.”  (Liberty Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at p. 1287.) Thus, “it amounts to an abuse of discretion to  withhold a protective order when a plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate  president, or corporate officer at the apex of a corporate hierarchy, absent a  reasonable indication of the officer's personal knowledge of the case and  absent exhaustion of less intrusive discovery methods.” (Ibid.)              Here, Defendant does not  substantively argue that its deponent, Paul Kangas’s position as Senior Vice  President Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the equivalent of a CEO,  president, or other “corporate officer at the apex of a corporate hierarchy,”  as in Liberty Mutual. The title alone is not sufficient. To the  contrary, it may be reasonably inferred from his title, Chief Risk and  Compliance Officer, that he could have information or sources of information  under his control that are connected to the case. Additionally, by designating Paul  Kangas to sign the verified discovery responses, including interrogatories,  Paul Kangas fits the category of an “officer or agent” under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2030.250, subdivision (b), which is distinct from an “apex”  employee under Liberty Mutual.   Even if Paul Kangas could be  deemed an apex-level executive, Liberty Mutual protected the executive  in that case from sitting for a deposition because he had no personal knowledge  about the case. (Liberty Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at p.  1287.) Plaintiff presented convincing, unrebutted evidence that Paul Kangas  signed the verification of Defendant’s responses to written discovery requests.  Thus, Paul Kangas has been involved in the case by executing his duty of assembling  and reviewing factual information, including those regarding Defendant’s video  surveillance system, provided by sources under his control. Defendant is not  justified in claiming otherwise simply because he does not have independent  knowledge about the incident.                Therefore,  the Court concludes that Defendant’s argument that Paul Kangas is protected  under Liberty Mutual as its apex employee fails.               Based on  the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony  of Paul Kangas.   C.     Monetary  Sanctions               Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.450, subdivision (g) provides that, “[i]f the motion under  subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed  the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is  affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.”   Given that the Court has  granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony under Code of  Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), it finds that the mandatory  monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision  (g) are applicable in this case. Furthermore, Defendant does not argue, nor does  the Court find, that the imposition of the sanction is unjust.     Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the  totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable  amount of Plaintiff’s fees and costs incurred for the instant Motion is  $2,100.00, calculated at $350.00 per hour for 3 hours, in addition to $990.00 in  court reporter fees and a $60.00 filing fee.   CONCLUSION   Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony of Paul Kangas is GRANTED.    Defendant  is ordered to produce its deponent, Paul Kangas, for deposition at a mutually  agreeable time within twenty days of notice of this order.    Plaintiff’s  Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   Defendant  and its attorney of record are ordered to pay Plaintiff, jointly and severally,  in the amount of $2,100.00.    Plaintiff  is ordered to provide notice.