 Case Number:  22STCV01966    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings filed by Defendant Wing
Lai.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part (with leave to
amend) and denied in part.
Background
On January 18, 2022, Plaintiff Tigran Galstyan
(“Galstyan”) filed a complaint against Defendant Wing Lai (“Lai”), and Does 1
through 25, alleging nine causes of action for: (1) Negligence, (2) Trespass,
(3) Private Nuisance, (4) Violation of Health and Safety Code section 13007,
(5) Negligent Misrepresentation, (6) Intentional Misrepresentation, (7) Concealment,
(8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (9) Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress. According to the complaint, a large fire originated on
Lai’s property and spread to Galstyan’s causing extensive damage, and then Lai
made misrepresentations about the cause and origin of the fire, causing
Galstyan to suffer further damages and emotion distress.
 
Lai filed her answer to Galstyan’s complaint on March 16,
2022.
 
In a separate case, Case No. 22STCV14996, Plaintiff
Allstate Insurance Company (“Allstate”)
filed its complaint against Galstyan and Does 1 through
20 on May 5, 2022, asserting three
causes of action in subrogation for: (1) Premises
Liability, (2) General Negligence, and (3) Trespass. In its complaint,
Allstate alleges that it insured Lai’s property; that Galstyan’s actions or
inactions caused the fire and resulting damage to Lai’s property; and that as a
result Allstate suffered a loss. 
 
Galstyan filed his answer to Allstate’s complaint on July
5, 2022.
 
The two cases were related on August 5, 2022, and
consolidated for all purposes on May 19, 2023.

Trial is scheduled for April 30, 2024.
 
On February 21, 2024, Galstyan filed an amendment to his
complaint naming Chi Man Wong as Doe 1.
 
On February 15, 2024, Lai filed this motion for judgment
on the pleadings. Plaintiff filed his opposition on February 27, 2024. Lai filed
an untimely reply on March 6, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
A defendant may move for judgment
on the pleadings when the “complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subds. (b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).) 
 
“A motion for judgment on the
pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial
itself. ”  (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d
868, 877.)  “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. Presentation
of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings.”  (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
995, 999 (Citations).)  The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment
on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general
demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that
may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316,
321-322 (citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)   
  
Discussion
As an initial matter, the Court exercises its discretion to consider Lai’s
late-filed reply.  The Court disregards
altogether, however, the inadmissible evidence submitted with the reply (and
cited in the reply) regarding the parties’ settlement discussions. 
In this motion, Lai challenges the adequacy of the pleading of the fourth
through ninth causes of action in the complaint.
Fourth Cause of Action – Violation of Health & Safety
Code § 13007
“Any person who personally or through another wilfully, negligently, or
in violation of law, sets fire to, allows fire to be set to, or allows a fire
kindled or attended by him to escape to, the property of another, whether
privately or publicly owned, is liable to the owner of such property for any
damages to the property caused by the fire.” (Health & Safety Code, § 13007.)
The Court denies Lai’s motion for judgment on the pleadings on this
cause of action.  Galstyan has adequately
pleaded a cause of action under this statute. 
Of course, Galstyan cannot recover more than once for the same injury,
but he is entitled to proceed under alternative theories of relief (common law negligence,
common law trespass, and a statutory cause of action under section 13007) to
obtain a recovery.
Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Causes of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation,
Negligent Misrepresentation, and Concealment
The Court grants Lai’s motion for judgment on the pleadings on the
Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh causes of action. 
In the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action, Galstyan alleges that Lai made
affirmative misrepresentations regarding the cause of the fire to both Galstyan
and Allstate (Lai’s insurer).  In the
Seventh Cause of Action, Galstyan alleges that Lai concealed material facts
regarding the cause of the fire from both Galstyan and Allstate.  But Galstyan does not allege that he himself believed
the false representations or was deceived by any concealment, and so, at least
based on the allegations in the complaint, it is unclear how he could proceed
with a misrepresentation or concealment claim; the elements of reliance,
causation, and damage are missing.  Nor
is it clear how or why Galstyan would have the ability to prosecute a claim
against Lai for her alleged misrepresentations to, or her alleged concealment of
facts from, her insurance carrier; perhaps Allstate might have such a claim,
but not a stranger to the relationship between Lai and Allstate, such as Galstyan
(unless, perhaps, Allstate assigned such a claim to Galstyan).
Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action – Intentional and
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
The Court grants Lai’s motion for judgment on the pleadings on the
Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action.  In
each of these causes of action, as pleaded, Galstyan seeks to recover for
distress caused not by the fire itself but by Lai’s false statements to, or
concealment of information from, Allstate; this (Galstyan alleges) led Allstate
to file a complaint against him, causing him to suffer distress.
In general, the distress associated with defending a lawsuit (even one
without merit, as Galstyan alleges, an allegation that the Court accepts for
purposes of ruling on this motion) cannot be recovered through a cause of
action for intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress.  Making a false statement to one’s insurance
company, or concealing facts from the insurer, is not the type of extreme or
outrageous conduct needed to support a claim for intentional inflict of
emotional distress, and the threatened harm to Galstyan’s financial interest is
not the type of harm needed to support a claim for negligent infliction of emotional
distress.
Leave to Amend
This is the first challenge to the pleading of the complaint, and it
appears that there is at least some reasonable possibility that Galstyan might
be able to address the deficiencies in the pleading.  According, the Court grants Galstyan leave to
amend.  (See Virginia G. v. ABC Unified School Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848,
1852.) 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES
the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Fourth Cause of Action in
Galstyan’s complaint.
The Court GRANTS
the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Fifth, Sixth, Seventh,
Eighth, and Ninth Causes of Action in Galstyan’s complaint, with leave to
amend.
The Court GRANTS
Galstyan leave to amend within 14 days of notice.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 