 Case Number:  23STCV27581    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LANCE
  HARA pka VICKY VOX
                           
         vs.
 
NETFLIX,
  et al. 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  23STCV27581  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: April 29, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to conduct
limited discovery is DENIED.
 
            On
11/9/2023, Plaintiff Lance Hara pka Vicky Vox (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Netflix, Inc., Titmouse, Inc., Lol Send, Inc., Gabe Liedman, Fremulon, LLC,
Michael Schur, Universal Television, LLC, Hazy Mills Production, Inc., Sean
Hayes, Todd Milliner, Ben Beins, 2 Arts Entertainment, LLC, David Miner, and
Max Silverstri.
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to lift the stay in discovery to conduct limited discovery
pursuant to CCP section 425.16(g) and to continue Defendants’ special motion to
strike. 
 
Discussion  
 
Plaintiff moves to lift the stay in discovery
to conduct limited discovery to support her opposition to Defendants’ pending
anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
After review, the Court declines to
grant the requested relief at this time. 
 
Once an anti-SLAPP motion has been
filed pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16, all discovery proceedings
must be stayed. However, Code Civ Proc., section 425.16(g) permits a court, on
noticed motion and for good cause to order that specified discovery be
conducted.  (Id.) “Good Cause” under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(g),
“require[s] a showing that the specified discovery is necessary for the
plaintiff to oppose the motion and is tailored to that end.” (Tutor–Saliba
Corp. v. Herrera (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 604, 617.)  
 
To satisfy this requirement, plaintiff
must make a prima facie showing at least as to the elements of the claim for
which no discovery should be needed. (Paterno v. Sup.Ct. (Ampersand
Publishing) (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1349.) Thus, the Court may¿allow¿discovery¿only into the issues raised by the¿motion¿to¿strike on a showing of good cause. 
 
            Here,
despite characterizing the discovery sought as “limited,” Plaintiff seeks:
 
(1)
Depositions of each of the individual Defendants, aimed only at the anti-SLAPP
allegations and limited to three hours;
 
(2) A
deposition of the person(s) most knowledgeable from Netflix about the
development, the selection of the Vox character, the creation, marketing and
distribution of the Series and all Netflix advertisements used in all marketing
and aimed only at the anti-SLAPP allegations and limited to three hours; 
 
(3) A
deposition of the person(s) most knowledgeable from Titmouse about the artistic
development, the selection of the Vox character, the creation, marketing and
distribution of the Series and its advertisements aimed only at the anti-SLAPP
allegations and limited to three hours; 
 
(4) Custodian
of Records deposition of Defendant Netflix relating to all internal records
related to Plaintiff and/or the use of the Vicky Vox character; 
 
(5) any and
all treatments, overviews, bibles, written pilots, character studies, character
developments (whether written and/or drawn) or other writings related to
Q-Force and any of its marketing materials; 
 
(6) all
correspondence and communications between Netflix and any of the co-defendants
(including their agents and/or employees) related to the development of the
offending Q-Force uses; 
 
(7) all
correspondence and communications between anyone at Defendants related to the
development of the offending Q-Force Series and any use of Plaintiff’s image in
connection therewith; and
 
 (8) all documents created for use in pitching
the offending Q-Force Series (whether used or not).
 
            The
underlying purpose of the anti-SLAPP statute, and its automatic stay on
discovery, is to strike offending claims at the earliest possible stages of
litigation. As such, to allow such broad discovery would run counter to the
purpose of the anti-SLAPP statute and must be supported by a clear
demonstration of good cause.    
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot meet her burden to establish a prima facie case
because: 1) the Series and its advertisements are expressive works protected
under the First Amendment; 2) the Series and its advertisements are
transformative of Plaintiff’s likeness and her First Amendment protected
character, Vicky Vox; 3) Plaintiff is a public figure and therefore must prove
by “clear and convincing evidence” that Defendants acted with actual malice;
and 4) that Plaintiff cannot overcome Defendants’ “incidental use defense.” 
 
            Plaintiff
herself argues that “[t]he internal correspondence and documentation relating
to Defendant Liedman’s admissions, which are pled in the Complaint, and
Plaintiff’s supporting declaration is arguably sufficient on its own to
invalidate Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion, and certainly constitutes a proper
showing that evidence necessary to establish a prima facie case is within the
possession of either Defendants and/or third parties.” (Motion, 21: 6-10.)
 
            As
such, by Plaintiff’s own admission, the allegations already set forth may, in
fact, be sufficient to overcome Defendant’s motion. Based on this, alongside
the fact that discovery should only be allowed in the anti-SLAPP context under
limited circumstances, the Court cannot then conclude that good cause exists to
allow additional discovery which may not even be necessary to adequately defeat
to Defendant’s motion. 
 
            As
such, the Court finds insufficient good cause exists at this time to allow
limited discovery to be conducted. In so concluding, the Court notes that,
while it takes no position on the merits of Defendant’s anti-SLAPP motion,
Plaintiff’s allegations appear, at first glance, to be sufficient to survive
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion.   
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to conduct limited discovery is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 