  Case Number:  23STCV17474    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  17 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES 
 
DEPARTMENT
17 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HOSPICE
  SOURCE, LLC 
                      
        
  vs. 
 
SILVER
  YEARS HEALTHCARE, INC.  
 


 Case
  No.:    23STCV27474
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  April 29, 2024



 
Hospice
Source’s motion for assignment order is GRANTED.
 
            On
11/8/2023, Plaintiff Hospice Source, LLC filed suit against Silver Years
Healthcare, Inc., Silver Years Healthcare, Caring Love Hospice, Inc., Sweet
Touch Hospice Inc., and Silver Years Home Health (collectively, Defendants/Judgment
Debtors), alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied in fact
contract; (3) open book account; and (4) account stated. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor Hospice Source, LLC (Hospice Source) moves for an order
assigning to it the interest, if any, of Defendants/Judgment Debtors. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Factual Background
 
On March 8,
2024, judgment was entered in favor of Hospice Source against, inter alia,
Defendant/Judgment Debtor Silver Years Healthcare Inc., Silver Years
Healthcare, a corporation, Caring Love Hospice Inc., Sweet Touch Hospice Inc.,
and Silver Years Home Health, a corporation in the sum of $65,789.69 (the
Judgment). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Hospice
Source seeks an assignment of the interest, if any, of Defendant’s, whether
derived from Medicare, Medicaid, Medi-Cal, Aetna Medicare, Alignment Health
Plan, Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Co.,
Anthem Blue Cross Partnership Plan, Aspire Health, Astiva Health, Blue Shield
of California, Brand New Day, CCA Health California, CCHP (Chinese Community
Health Plan), Central Health Medicare Plan, Clever Care Health Plan, Humana,
Imperial Health Plan of California Inc., Kaiser Permanente, Molina Healthcare
of California, Providence Medicare Advantage Plans, SCAN Health Plan, Sharp
Health Plan, UnitedHealthcare, Wellcare, Wellcare by Health Net, Western Health
Advantage, or any other private or public payor, to the extent necessary to
satisfy the judgment entered in this action in full, will come on for hearing.
 
CCP § 708.510(a) provides for
assignment orders and states: 
“(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor
on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the
judgment creditor or to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing
with Section 708.610) all or part of a right to payment due or to become due,
whether or not the right is conditioned on future developments, including but
not limited to the following types of payments: (1)
Wages due from the federal government that are not subject to withholding under
an earnings withholding order; (2) Rents; (3) Commissions; (4) Royalties; (5)
Payments due from a patent or copyright; (6) Insurance policy loan value. 
 
 
An assignment
order is a placeholder for a judgment creditor, and in order to obtain the
requested relief the judgment creditor need only establish the potential
liability of the third person obligor to the judgment debtor, whether existing
now or which may come existence later based on the occurrence of some
unspecified development in the future. (Greenbaum v. Islamic Republic of
Iran (2008) 782 F.Supp.2d 893, 894-895, 896-897.)
 
Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 42, Chapter IV, Subchapter B, Part 424, Subpart F,
§424.73 [Prohibition of assignment of claims by providers.] provides:
 (a) Basic prohibition. Except as specified in
paragraph (b) of this section, Medicare does not pay amounts that are due a
provider to any other person under assignment, or power of attorney, or any
other direct payment arrangement.
 
 (b) Exceptions to the prohibition — (1)
Payment to a government agency or entity. Subject to the requirements of the
Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727), Medicare may pay a government agency
or entity under an assignment by the provider. [¶] (2) Payment under assignment
established by court order. Medicare may pay under an assignment established
by, or in accordance with, the order of a court of competent jurisdiction if
the assignment meets the conditions set forth in §424.90.
 
Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 42, Chapter IV, Subchapter B, Part 424, Subpart F,
§424.90 [Court ordered assignments: Conditions and limitations.] provides:
 
 (a) Conditions for acceptance. An assignment
or reassignment established by or in accordance with a court order is effective
for Medicare payments only if—
 
(1)
Someone files a certified copy of the court order and of the executed
assignment or reassignment (if it was necessary to execute one) with the
intermediary or carrier responsible for processing the claim; and
(2)
The assignment or reassignment— (i) Applies to all Medicare benefits payable to
a particular person or entity during a specified or indefinite time period; or
(ii) Specifies a particular amount of money, payable to a particular person or
entity by a particular intermediary or carrier. 
 
 
            The
exemptions found in the Enforcement of Judgments Law, Code of Civil Procedure
§680.010 et seq., may be claimed only by natural person judgment debtors, i.e.,
not by partnerships, corporations or other entities. (CCP §§695.010(a) and
703.020(a) [“The exemptions provided by this chapter apply only to property of
a natural person.”]5 ; but see Fisch, Spiegler, Ginsburg & Ladner v.
Appel (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1810, 1811 [Trustees of revocable living trust
entitled to claim declared homestead exemption.].) The earnings of a
self-employed judgment debtor are not subject to exemption under the Wage
Garnishment Law. (Moses v. DeVersecy (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 1071,
1073-1074.) Thus, where the judgment debtor is self-employed, and not an
“employee” subject to a wage garnishment, there is no exemption available for
earnings.
 
            Here,
the Court finds legal authority provides for the assignment orders requested,
and no exemption applies. The lack of opposition is considered a concession on
the merits. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Hospice Source’s motion for assignment order is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 