  Case Number:  22STCV04333    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  T Pro Hac Vice Application   Moving Party:  Defendant Columbus McKinnon Corporation  Responding Party:  N/A Tentative Ruling:  DenyBACKGROUND On February 3, 2022, Plaintiff Harrigan filed this products liability action against Defendants JPW Industries, Inc., erroneously sued as JET, and Build Group Company, Inc., erroneously sued as Build Group and Does 1 to 100.  On September 23, 2024, CMC filed this unopposed Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice for Attorney John E. Tyrrell (“Tyrrell”). LEGAL STANDARD California Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application with proof of service by mail and notice of hearing on the application to all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a), (c)(1).) The State Bar of California may set an appropriate application fee to by paid by counsel pro hac vice, which is currently set at $500. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).)  The written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the courts of admission; (4) representation that the attorney is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) ANALYSIS Tyrrell has filed a verified application for pro hac vice and served all parties that appeared in the case. Robert E. Davies, attorney of record for CMC, “forwarded” the application and paid the fee in the amount of $50.00 to the State Bar of California. (Davis Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court notes that the fee is currently $500.00. There is also no proof of the payment attached. The Court further notes that there is no proof of service indicating that the application was served via mail to the State Bar, in violation of CRC Rule 9.40(c)(1) (“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice. . .must file. . .a verified application together with proof of service by mail a copy of the application. . .on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.”). Tyrrell attests that he is not a California resident, is not regularly employed in California, and is not regularly engaged in the practice of law or any substantial business, professional, or other activities in California. (Application, ¶ 6.) He states his address as Bunning Drive in Voorhees, NJ. (Application, ¶ 5.) The Court notes that Tyrrell has not provided his exact residential address. His business address is 1515 Market Street, Suite 1800, Philadelphia, PA 19102. (Ibid.)  Tyrrell represents that he is a member in good standing of the New Jersey State Bar and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania State Bar. (Application, ¶¶ 7, 8.) Tyrrell has not been suspended or disbarred in any court. (Application, ¶ 10.) Tyrrell has not applied to appear pro hac vice in California in the past two years. (Application, ¶ 11.)  Tyrrell’s Application states that the attorney of record for CMC is Robert E. Davies of Davies Blakemore LLP. Davies is licensed to practice in California. (Davies Decl., ¶ 1.) Tyrell attests that Davies address and telephone number are P.O. Box 276148, Sacramento, CA, 95827-7010 and (916) 510-2400. (Application, ¶ 12.) Davies’ Declaration in Support of this application provides a different address: 1 Natoma Street, Folsom, California, 95630. (Davies Decl., ¶ 5.)  The Court finds that Tyrrell’s Application for Pro Hac Vice and Robert E. Davies’ Declaration in Support contains the following errors: (1) Davies attests that he paid a $50.00 fee to the State Bar when the current fee is $500, (2) the application was not served via mail to the State Bar with proof of service, (3) Tyrrell did not provide his exact residential address, and (4) Davies’ address does not match on the documents. RULING The Court DENIES Attorney John E. Tyrrell’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice. 