  Case Number:  22STCV17038    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  T EVEREST V MOUNTAIN RECOVERY  22STCV17038 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Mountain Recovery, LLC; Adam  Harari, and Jonathan Harari’s Special Motion to Strike the First Amended  Complaint is GRANTED.    Defendants Mountain Recovery,  LLC; Adam Harari, and Jonathan Harari’s alternative Special Motion to Strike  Only Portions of the First Amended Complaint is MOOT. Introduction  Defendants Mountain Recovery,  LLC; Adam Harari, and Jonathan Harari (collectively, Defendants) specially  moved to strike Plaintiff Alexander Everest’s (Plaintiff) First Amended  Complaint (FAC).  The motion placed into  issue the FAC’s first cause of action (COA) for negligence per se – violation  of 15 U.S.C. sec. 6821; the second COA for intentional infliction of emotional  distress (IIED); the third COA for fraud; and the fifth COA for violation of  Business and Professions Code section 17200 (UCL).  In the alternative, Defendants seek to strike  specific portions of the FAC, as identified in the notice.   The motion’s notice also stated  that the special motion to strike was against the fourth COA for breach of  fiduciary duty.  However, moving  defendants are not named in that COA.   The COA is only alleged against Co-Defendant First Foundation Bank.  The motion is made against the entire FAC  applicable to Defendants.  Plaintiff’s opposition was due  September 21, 2023 and none was filed.   Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition on September 28, 2023.  Discussion   Defendants moved to strike the  FAC on the ground that the claims against Defendants arise from the acts of  their right to petition.  The gravamen of  the action is that Defendants’ sought to enforce a judgment against Plaintiff  through fraudulent means.  Plaintiff  alleged that Defendants’ investigator, Co-Defendant Rene Sanchez (Sanchez),  posed as Plaintiff in a telephone call to Co-Defendant First Foundation Bank  (FFB) and obtained Plaintiff’s bank information and account balance.  Plaintiff alleged that Sanchez identified  himself as Plaintiff and provided to FFB Plaintiff’s social security  number.  With the fraudulently obtained  information, Mountain Recovery served a subpoena upon FFB. (FAC pars. 6-8.)  Defendants provided that even acts to enforce  a judgment that were committed fraudulently or with malice falls under the  litigation privilege.  (O’Keefe v. Kompa  (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 130, 135.)  Even  though Defendants’ investigator allegedly obtained financial information  through false pretenses, the allegation that the information was used to  support the subpoena served upon FFB makes it petitioning activity.  The allegations are sufficiently shown to  arise from Defendants’ rights to petition.   Defendants met their initial burden to show that the claims arose from  protected activity and the burden shifted to Plaintiff to show a probability of  prevailing with admissible evidence.   Because Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, Plaintiff failed to meet  his burden. The special motion to strike is  GRANTED.  IT IS SO  ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendant First Foundation Bank’s Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.Defendant First Foundation Bank’s Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED as to the existence of the document but not as to hearsay and
facts in dispute.Introduction Defendant First Foundation Bank (Defendant) demurred to
Plaintiff Alexander Everest’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC.)  The demurrer placed into issue the FAC’s
first cause of action (COA) for negligence per se – violation of 15 U.S.C. sec.
6821; the second COA for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED);
the third COA for fraud; and the fourth COA for breach of the fiduciary
duty.  Plaintiff’s opposition was due by
September 21, 2023.  Discussion  As to the first, second, and third COAs, Defendant argued
that the claims failed to allege sufficient facts and/or is uncertain because
there are no facts to show any misconduct by Defendant.  The claims only show that Defendant was the
victim of Co-Defendant Renee Sanchez’s false pretense.  There are insufficient facts pled to allege
the misconduct levied against Defendant. 
Further, the three COAs failed to specifically identify which defendant
or defendants are subject to each COA. 
The Court finds the pleading defects identified in the demurrer to be
persuasive.As to the fourth COA for breach of fiduciary duty, there are
insufficient facts pled to show that Plaintiff and Defendant were in a
fiduciary relationship and/or Defendant owed a fiduciary duty.  (Chazen v. Centennial Bank (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 534, 537; Copesky v. Superior Court (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 678,
694.)  On this pleading defect, the
demurrer is persuasive and grounds to sustain the demurrer exist.Defendant’s second argument against the fourth COA to
dispute the existence of a motion to quash is not proper for a demurrer because
factual allegations are deemed true at the pleading stage.  Defendant’s second argument against the
fourth COA is not persuasive.Plaintiff did not file an opposition.    Plaintiff did not file a request to
amend.  Plaintiff has filed nothing in
response to the demurrer.  The demurrer
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.

















IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.