 Case Number:  23STCV01110    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



KAREN FLORES,
                        Plaintiff,
v.
EVERBRANDS, INC., a California corporation; EVERBRANDS,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; MICHEAL FLORMAN, an individual; YON LAI, an
  individual, and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV01110
 Hearing Date:   4/5/24
 Trial Date:        9/3/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Karen
  Flores’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 1
  Sent to Michael Florman and Request for Terminating Sanctions; Issue
  Sanctions; Evidence Sanctions; and Further Monetary Sanctions in the Amount
  of $5,947.01 Against Michael Florman and Their Attorney of Record Allyson
  Thompson.



 
I. Background
Plaintiff Karen Flores (Plaintiff)
sues Defendants Everbrands, Inc., a California Corporation (Everbrands CA),
Everbrands, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (Everbrands DE) (collectively,
Everbrands, Inc.), Michael Florman (Florman), Yon Lai (Lai), and Does 1-25
pursuant to a January 18, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Failure to Pay
a Minimum Wage, (2) Failure to Pay Overtime, (3) Failure to Provide Rest
Breaks, (4) Failure to Provide Meal Breaks, (5) Inaccurate Wage Statements, (6)
Waiting Wage Penalties (Cal. Labor Code §§ 201-203), (7) Unfair Competition and
Unlawful Business Practices – (Cal. Bus. Code § 17200), and (8) Failure to
Provide Records. 
The claims arise from allegations
that when Plaintiff was employed by Defendants, she was paid less than the
applicable minimum wage, was not compensated for overtime, and was not
compensated for and/or provided meal and rest breaks.
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff
Flores filed a motion for terminating or issue and evidence sanctions against
Defendant Florman for failure to sufficiently respond to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatory No. 15.1 relating to the bases for Defendant Florman’s affirmative
defenses and denials. The motion also seeks in the alternative an order
compelling further interrogatory responses, as well as further monetary
sanctions against Defendant Florman and counsel.
On March 22, 2024, Defendant
Florman filed an opposition.
That same day, Plaintiff Flores
filed a corrected separate statement in connection with her motion.
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff Flores
filed a reply.
Plaintiff Flores’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Discussion
A. Motions
to Compel Further Interrogatory Responses and for Monetary, Issue, and Evidence
Sanctions: DENIED.
1. Relevant Law

A separate statement must be filed
in relation to motions to compel further interrogatory responses and in
relation to motions for issue and terminating sanctions. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(a)(2), (7).)
The purpose of the separate
statement is to streamline adjudication of discovery motions. (Mills v. U.S.
Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893 (Mills).)
The separate statement must be full
and complete so that no person is required to review any other document in
order to determine the full request and the full response. Material must not be
incorporated into the separate statement by reference. The separate statement
must include-for each discovery request (e.g., each interrogatory, request for
admission, deposition question, or inspection demand) to which a further
response, answer, or production is requested-the following:
(1) 
The text of the request, interrogatory, question, or inspection demand;
(2) 
The text of each response, answer, or objection, and any further
responses or answers;
(3) 
A statement of the factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses, answers, or production as to each matter in dispute;
(4) 
If necessary, the text of all definitions, instructions, and other
matters required to understand each discovery request and the responses to it;
(5) 
If the response to a particular discovery request is dependent on the
response given to another discovery request, or if the reasons a further
response to a particular discovery request is deemed necessary are based on the
response to some other discovery request, the other request and the response to
it must be set forth; and
(6) 
If the pleadings, other documents in the file, or other items of
discovery are relevant to the motion, the party relying on them must summarize
each relevant document.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(c)-(c)(6).)
2. Parties’
Arguments 
Defendant Florman’s opposition
challenges Plaintiff Flores’s motion based on amended responses that have been
provided to Plaintiff, as well as Plaintiff’s defective separate statement.
Defendant Florman argues that the separate statement attached to the moving
papers did not contain a section substantively addressing why further responses
to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1—the discovery here at issue—should be compelled.
Defendant Florman also explains Plaintiff Flores’s counsel emailed a corrected
separate statement the day on which the opposition was due, leaving Defendant
Florman’s counsel insufficient time to respond to the corrected separate
statement. (Opp’n, pp. 5-6.)
In reply, Plaintiff Flores argues
that the complaints regarding the separate statement are not material because Plaintiff
served a corrected separate statement and offered additional time for Plaintiff
to respond (a continuance), with Defendant Florman first agreeing and then
rescinding agreement to a continuance. Plaintiff Flores also argues that the
reasons for granting the motion are in the points and authorities for the
moving papers, demonstrating a lack of prejudice. (Reply, pp. 6-7.)
3. Court’s
Determination 
The Court finds that the moving
papers here were defectively filed as to compelling further interrogatory
responses and as to issue and evidence sanctions, thus undercutting the grounds
for monetary sanctions.
The separate statement supporting
those motions was initially filed on February 14, 2024, with Plaintiff Flores’s
moving papers. Critically, it fails to include a section explaining the reasons
why Defendant Florman’s then-most recent responses to Form Interrogatory No.
15.1 were deficient. (See Mot., Separate Statement, p. 13.)
Plaintiff Flores filed a corrected
separate statement on the same day the opposition was filed—March 22, 2024—which
argues, in full: “The response simply does not answer the question posed,
because it does not identify which paragraphs are being denied, the facts that
support the denial of the same, or the witnesses and documents that support
each denial. Here, there have been multiple amendments to this interrogatory,
and none of the amendments actually answer the question posed.” (3/22/24
Corrected Separate Statement.) 
Both of these separate statements are
defective.
The original version was defective
for failure to contain “[a] statement of the factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter in
dispute.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c)(3).)
The corrected version fails to
sufficiently elaborate the same requirement, altogether failing to explain how
Defendant Florman failed to answer the questions posed of Form Interrogatory
No. 15. This defect is all the more glaring where the responses, including the amended
responses in the corrected version includes multiple facts specific to the
General Denial and to each affirmative defense as well as multiple witnesses
and documents to support the same. There are no other denials in either the
original Answer filed on July 24, 2023 or the Amended Answer that was filed
upon stipulation and order on April 2, 2024.  Thus, even if the Court were to consider the corrected
version, which was filed late, the Court lacks the ability to make the
determination requested by Plaintiff Flores.
The Court thus DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion insofar as it relates to compelling further interrogatory responses and to
monetary, issue, and evidence sanctions.
B. Terminating Sanctions: DENIED.
1. Relevant Law

Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 permits California courts to impose terminating sanctions for
discovery misuses, which are defined by section 2023.010 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. (See Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. v. Superior Court
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 272, 288 [The court’s inherent power to curb abuses and
promote fair process extends to the preclusion of evidence].)
Terminating sanctions are drastic
sanctions that should be imposed sparingly and only when it is clear that the
party to be sanctioned has left no viable alternatives. (See Dept. of
Forestry & Fire. Prot. v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191,
disapproved on other grounds in Presbyterian Camp & Conf. Ctrs, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th 493; Lopez v. Watchtower Bible &
Tract Soc’y (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)
“‘The trial court should consider
both the conduct being sanctioned and its effect on the party seeking discovery
and, in choosing a sanction, should “‘attempt[] to tailor the sanction to the
harm caused by the withheld discovery.’” [Citation.] […] [¶] The discovery
statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.
“Discovery sanctions ‘should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to
but denied discovery.’” [Citation.] If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse,
a greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process
warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will
curb the abuse.’” (Padron v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New
York, Inc. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1246, 1259-1260, quoting Doppes v.
Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) 
2. Parties’
Arguments 
Plaintiff Flores’s moving papers
argue in essence that terminating or issue and evidence sanctions as to Form
Interrogatory 15.1 are warranted against Michael Florman based on Florman
serving identical responses to Form Interrogatory 15.1 on four different
occasions while promising updated responses that differed from the previously
served responses. Defendant Florman also argues in favor of the relevance of
the sought-after discovery. (See Mot., pp. 4-5, 5-10.)
In opposition, Defendant Florman
argues that Plaintiff misinterprets what Interrogatory No. 15.1 requests of
Florman, that Plaintiff Flores failed to properly meet and confer as to
Florman’s final—and sufficiently updated—discovery responses prior to Plaintiff
Florman filing this motion, and that terminating sanctions are not proper
without prior discovery orders relating to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1. (Opp’n,
pp. 1-7.)
In reply, Plaintiff Flores
reiterates that Defendant Florman did not—and admits that he did not—answer the
interrogatory at issue as posed, makes an argument related to a previously
scheduled discovery conference raised in the opposition, and rebuts the opposition
meet and confer argument. (Reply, pp. 2-6.)
3. Court’s
Determination 
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant Florman.
Here, terminating sanctions would
have been too drastic a remedy even had the Court not denied the remaining
portions of Plaintiff Flores’s motion for containing a defective separate
statement.
Plaintiff Flores’s motion is thus
DENIED as to terminating sanctions. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Karen Flores’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set 1 Sent to Michael Florman and Request for Terminating
Sanctions; Issue Sanctions; Evidence Sanctions; and Further Monetary Sanctions
in the Amount of $5,947.01 Against Michael Florman and Their Attorney of Record
Allyson Thompson is DENIED.