  Case Number:  22STCV25917    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JINWOO PARK,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KEITH K. KIM, JOHN P. YASUDA, HERB FOX, JOSEPH WALSH, AND THE
  STATE BAR OF CALIFORNIA,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV25917
 Hearing Date:   4/5/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Herb
  Fox’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Jinwoo Park’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS#
  2143];
Defendant Herb
  Fox’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff Park’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 2143];
Plaintiff Jinwoo
  Park’s Motion to Request the State Bar for Defendant Keith Kim’s Residence
  Address; and
Plaintiff Jinwoo
  Park’s Motion to Request [] Appointment of Attorney.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Jinwoo Park sues
Defendants Keith K. Kim, John P. Yasuda, Herb Fox, Joseph Walsh, and State Bar
of California pursuant to a November 1, 2023, Third Amended Complaint (TAC) alleging
an undefined cause of action that is alleged not to be “legal malpractice” but is
alleged to involve the willful destruction and losing of the People’s exhibits
in a criminal prosecution defense and subsequent appeal, in breach of the
professional ethical duty encompassed in the California Rules of Professional
Conduct at rule 1.16(e)(1) and addressed in formal opinions by the California
Bar Association and Los Angeles County Bar Association.
B. Demurrer and Motion to Strike
[Defendant Fox]
On November 27, 2023, Defendant Fox
filed a demurrer challenging the sufficiency of the TAC’s allegations as
directed against Defendant Fox.
That same day, Defendant Fox filed
a motion to strike challenging the TAC on two grounds: (1) alleging a new claim
beyond the scope of the leave to amend afforded by the Court in granting leave
to amend the prior Second Amended Complaint (SAC); and (2) a negligence claim,
to the extent it is alleged in the TAC, even if alleged as professional
negligence, fails to support allegations of and a prayer for punitive damages.
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff Park
filed an opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike.
On March 22, 2024, Defendant Fox
filed separate replies to Plaintiff Park’s combined opposition.
The demurrer and motion to strike
are now before the Court.
C. Motion Requesting Disclosure
of Counsel’s Address by State Bar [Plaintiff Park]
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Park
filed a motion to compel the disclosure of Defendant Keith Kim’s residential
address from the State Bar, or for service on Defendant Kim by publication.
The motion attaches a proof of
service purporting to show service of the motion by mail to counsel for
Defendant Herb Fox, counsel for Defendant Joseph Walsh, the State Bar, and
Defendant Keith Kim’s law office.
On March 22, 2024, Defendant the
State Bar of California (the State Bar) filed an opposition to Plaintiff Park’s
motion.
No other opposition or reply
appears in the record.
Plaintiff Park’s motion for
disclosure or publication order is now before the Court.
D. Motion Requesting Appointment
of Attorney [Plaintiff Park]
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff Park
filed a motion requesting the appointment of an attorney to represent him based
on an inability to fluently speak English.
No opposition or reply appears in
the record.
Plaintiff Park’s motion for
appointment of attorney is now before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer: SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.
A. Request for Judicial Notice
Per Defendant Herb Fox’s request in
his moving papers, the court takes judicial notice of the dockets for the
underlying criminal prosecution and appeal proceeding for Plaintiff Park.
(Demurrer, RJN, Exs. 1-2; Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
B. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently
allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that
is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded.
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)
35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey
Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded
by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
C. Court’s Determination
1. Demurrer, Entire
TAC, Failure to Plead Actual Innocence Requirement
a. Relevant
Law
The failure to provide competent
representation in a civil or criminal case may be the basis for civil liability
under a theory of professional negligence. (Redante v. Yockelson (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356.)
“The elements of a cause of action
for legal malpractice arising out of a criminal proceeding are (1) the
attorney's duty to use a level of skill, prudence, and diligence commonly
possessed and exercised by attorneys; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection between the breach and the resulting injury; (4) actual loss
or damage resulting from the attorney's negligence; and (5) actual innocence of
the former criminal defendant.” (Ovando v. County of Los Angeles (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 42, 67.)
Consequently, in an action for
legal malpractice by a criminal defendant against his or her defense attorney,
the criminal defendant must prove his or her actual innocence of the criminal
charges as a necessary element of the action. (Wiley v. County of San Diego
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 532, 536-537 (Wiley).) The rationale for this rule
lies in several policy considerations. First, allowing a convicted criminal to
pursue a legal malpractice claim without proof of innocence would permit the
criminal to profit from his or her own fraud or take advantage of his or her
own wrong. (Coscia v. McKenna v. Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1194, 1200 (Coscia).)
Second, convicted criminals should bear sole responsibility for their actions,
and any subsequent negligence by counsel is superseded by the greater
culpability of the criminal’s conduct. (Ibid.) Third, convicted
criminals have an adequate remedy in the form of post-conviction relief for
ineffective assistance of counsel. (Ibid.)
In addition, as a prerequisite to
proving actual innocence in a malpractice action, the criminal defendant “‘must
obtain postconviction relief in the form of a final disposition of the
underlying criminal case—for example, by acquittal after retrial, reversal on
appeal with directions to dismiss the charges, reversal followed by the
People’s refusal to continue the prosecution, or a grant of habeas corpus
relief.’” (Khodayari v. Mashburn (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1184, 1189 (Khodayari);
see also Sangha v. LaBarbera (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 79, 90 [“Postconviction
exoneration is a ‘final disposition’ of the underlying case”].) This
requirement applies regardless of whether the conviction resulted from guilty
or nolo contendere pleas or trial. (Coscia, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 1205.)  
b. Parties’
Arguments
In his demurrer, Defendant Fox first
argues that the TAC alleges a legal malpractice claim but fails to sufficiently
allege the actual innocence requirement that must be alleged in relation to
competent representation in a civil or criminal case. Second, Defendant Fox argues
that the TAC alleges that the evidence was lost or destroyed in the trial court
proceedings, where Fox is only alleged as appellate counsel. Third, Defendant
Fox argues that the Rules of Professional Conduct do not contemplate civil
causes of action based on violations of any specific rule. Fourth, Defendant
Fox argues that Plaintiff Park has unclean hands. Last, Defendant Fox argues
that should the actual innocence requirement not apply, the statute of
limitations on this claim renders the TAC’s sole cause of action untimely.
(Demurrer, pp. 4-8.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Park—in a
55 page, single spaced memorandum of points and authorities that far exceed the
page limits in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d)—argues among many
other things that he does not state a legal malpractice claim but rather a
violation of the Professional Rules of Conduct and that the digital videos and
photos that were “willfully concealed” by Defendants support such a claim.
(See, e.g., Opp’n, 3:12-4:3.)
In reply, Defendant Fox reiterates
the points in the moving papers, notes the exceeding length of the opposition’s
points and authorities, and argues that leave to amend should not be granted
because Plaintiff Park made no showing that he can cure the defects raised in
the pleadings. (Reply, pp. 2-6.)
c. Merits
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant Fox.
It is “an elementary principle of
modern pleading that the nature and character of a pleading is to be determined
from its allegations, regardless of what it may be called, and that the subject
matter of an action and issues involved are determined from the facts alleged
rather than from the title of the pleadings or the character of the damage
recovery suggested in connection with the prayer for relief.” (McDonald v.
Filice (1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 613, 622; accord. Ananda Church of
Self-Realization v. Massachusetts Bay Ins. Co. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1273,
1281; Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 85, 98.) To
determine the nature of a cause of action, California courts look at the facts
alleged, not its label. (See, e.g., Saunders v. Cariss (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 905, 908.)
The elements of a legal malpractice
action are: (1) the duty of the attorney to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as members of his or her profession commonly possess and exercise;
(2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the breach
and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
attorney’s negligence. (Coscia, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 1199.)
Here, the TAC alleges all counsel
in the underlying criminal prosecution and appellate proceedings violated rule
16(a) of the Rules of Professional Conduct by destroying or losing evidence.
(TAC, ¶ 8.) Such conduct is clearly professional negligence insofar as the
essence of the claim being stated against Defendant Fox is that he acted under
the proper standard of care. This conclusion is supported by the TAC alleging
that the cause of action at issue arises from violation of the California Rules
of Professional conduct, i.e., conduct that fell below what is required of an
attorney acting in conformity with the Rules. To state a legal malpractice
claim in relation to a criminal prosecution defense, actual innocence and
postconviction relief must be alleged. (Wiley, supra, 19 Cal.4th at
pp. 536-537 [actual innocence]; Khodayari, supra, 200 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1189 [postconviction relief].) Here, the TAC does neither and clearly
establishes that Plaintiff Park is an incarcerated individual based on the
underlying criminal prosecution. Nor does the FAC allege that Plaintiff’s
sentence or conviction is likely to change in the near future.
Neither can the TAC be cured to
state a claim based on the Rules of Professional Conduct. As stated by the
Rules themselves: “The Rules of Professional Conduct are intended to establish
the standards for lawyers for purposes of discipline. (See Ames v. State Bar
(1973) 8 Cal.3d 910, 917.) Therefore, failure to comply with an obligation or
prohibition imposed by a rule is a basis for invoking the disciplinary process.
Because the rules are not designed to be a basis for civil liability, a
violation of a rule does not itself give rise to a cause of action for
enforcement of a rule or for damages caused by failure to comply with the rule.
(Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1070, 1097.) Nevertheless, a
lawyer’s violation of a rule may be evidence of breach of a lawyer’s fiduciary
or other substantive legal duty in a non-disciplinary context. (Ibid.;
see also Mirabito v. Liccardo (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 41, 44.) A violation
of a rule may have other non- disciplinary consequences. (See, e.g., Fletcher
v. Davis (2004) 33 Cal.4th 61, 71-72 [enforcement of attorney’s lien]; Chambers
v. Kay (2002) 29 Cal.4th 142, 161 [enforcement of fee sharing agreement].)”
(Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.0, com. [1].)
The TAC therefore states a single,
undefined count, which reads as a professional negligence claim, and is
premised on violations of the California Rules of Professional Conduct (see
TAC, ¶ 8), where violation of one of those Rules cannot serve as a basis for a
civil action against counsel (Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.0, com. [1]), and
where the legal malpractice component of the count is defectively pled. The TAC
instead alleges that the State Bar reviewed counsels’ conduct in the criminal prosecution
and appellate proceedings and failed to find counsel acted below the standard
of care. (TAC, ¶ 8, Attach., 4:21-28.) Such a count is fatally defective.
For both these reasons, Defendant
Fox’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend, as to Defendant Herb Fox.
 
III. Motion to Strike: MOOT.
A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B. Court’s Determination
Given the Court’s determination on
Defendant Fox’s demurrer, Defendant Fox’s motion to strike is MOOT.
 
IV. Motion
to Compel State Bar’s Disclosure of Counsel’s Residential Address or for
Publication [Keith Kim]: DENIED.
A. Legal Standard
A motion to compel an initial
response can be made on the ground that a party did not serve a timely response
to interrogatories or a demand to produce. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(a); see Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404 (Sinaiko).) To establish this ground, a
movant must show:
(1) Proper service (see Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.040);
(2) Expiration of the deadline for
the initial response 30 days after service or on date agreed to by parties (see
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subds. (a), (b)); and
(3) No timely response (see Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300).
A court must deny a motion to
compel initial discovery where the discovery sought is outside the scope of
discovery. (See CBS, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12,
19; see also Code. Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 [scope of discovery].) 
B. Court’s Determination
1. Parties’ Arguments
In his moving papers, Plaintiff
Park seeks an order (1) that compels Defendant the State Bar to disclose the
residential address of Defendant Kim for service to be effected on Kim or (2)
for publication of service of Defendant Kim, who has failed to oppose this
motion. (Mot, pp. 1-4.)
In opposition, the State Bar argues
that Plaintiff Park has failed to comply with the California Discovery Act’s
provisions relating to compelling production from another party, which should
take the form of a request for production and not a direct request to the
Court. The State Bar also raises the privacy interest that Defendant Kim has in
his residential address and argues that the interest in serving Defendant Kim
does not overcome Kim’s privacy rights, which the State Bar must protect.
(Opp’n, pp. 1-2.)
No reply appears in the record.
2. Merits
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant the State Bar.
As to disclosure of Defendant Kim’s
residential address, the Court agrees that a request for production must be made
for that information consistent with the Discovery Act as it relates to
production requests. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010 et seq.)
As for publication, the Court
determines that Plaintiff Park’s motion is not in proper form and must
therefore be denied. This is because the moving papers do not intelligibly
clarify how or why publication is the proper form of service at this juncture
following failed attempts at other methods of service aside from email. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a) [“A summons may be served by publication if
upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action
is pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be
served in another manner specified in this article and that …”].) This is
particularly so given that Defendant Kim appears on the California Bar website,
which discloses his working address, where service can be effected by
substituted service pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20. 
Plaintiff Park’s motion is
therefore DENIED.
 
V. Motion for the Appointment of Counsel: DENIED.
A. Legal Standard
“[W]hen an indigent plaintiff in a
civil action requests the appointment of counsel, that request should be
interpreted as invoking the right of meaningful access to the courts, even if
the indigent plaintiff does not explicitly mention that right. Courts generally
are required to give pleadings a liberal, yet reasonable, construction (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452), and the same approach is warranted when an indigent,
self-represented plaintiff requests the appointment of counsel. Based on
current State of California and federal constitutional law, it is objectively
reasonable to interpret such requests as being based on the right to meaningful
access to the courts. The alternate principle, which would conclude a trial
court need consider its discretionary authority to appoint counsel if and only
if a self-represented, indigent plaintiff explicitly mentions the right of
meaningful access, would itself operate as a barrier to meaningful access. 
[¶] We further conclude that trial
courts evaluating a request for the appointment of counsel by an indigent
plaintiff must (1) recognize their discretionary authority to appoint counsel
or implement other measures to afford the plaintiff meaningful access to the
courts and (2) exercise that discretion in an informed manner.
[¶] This obligation or
responsibility imposes a small burden on trial courts as they should be aware
of their role in the administration of justice, the constitutional principles
that define that role, and the rights of persons resorting to the court system.
If this responsibility was not inherent in the constitutional and statutory
right of access to the courts, then indigent litigants most in need of
protection because of their inability to effectively represent themselves would
be the least likely to obtain protection.” (Smith v. Ogbuehi (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 453, 475-476 (Smith), paragraph breaks added.)
B. Court’s Determination
1. Parties’ Arguments
In his moving papers, Plaintiff Kim
asks for the appointment of counsel based on his inability to speak English and
the resulting difficulties in advancing a civil action against five Defendants.
The moving papers otherwise go into the merits of the case in dense paragraphs.
(Mot., pp. 1-13.)
No opposition or reply appears in
the record.
2. Merits
The exercise of a trial court’s
discretion to appoint counsel in a incarcerated individual’s civil case is
guided by a three-step inquiry: (1) the trial court determines whether the incarcerated
individual is indigent; (2) the court determines whether the lawsuit involves a
bona fide threat to the incarcerated individual’s personal or property
interests; and (3) if both conditions are satisfied, the trial court must
consider the measures available to protect the incarcerated individual’s right
of meaningful access to the courts, including the appointment of counsel. (Cal.
Const. art. 1, § 3; Cal. Penal Code § 2601, subd. (d); Smith, supra,
38 Cal.App.5th at pp. 475-476.)
Here, based on past Court orders
and discussions with Plaintiff Kim, the Court can facially accept that he is
indigent, though the Court lacks a declaration from Plaintiff Kim giving
greater detail as to his financial condition.
However, the Court fails to find a
bona fide threat to Plaintiff Kim’s property interests, i.e., any interest he
has in a cause of action against Defendant for violation of Plaintiff Kim’s
rights.
This is because the right at
issue—as discussed above in Section II—is legal malpractice, a question that is
not ripe until there are allegations of (1) actual innocence and (2)
postconviction relief, which is clearly not the case where Plaintiff Kim
remains an incarcerated individual.
Plaintiff Park’s motion is
therefore DENIED. 
VI. Conclusion
A. Demurrer [Defendant Herb Fox]
Defendant Herb Fox’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff Jinwoo Park’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 2143] is SUSTAINED,
without leave to amend, as to Defendant Herb Fox.
B. Motion to Strike [Defendant
Herb Fox]
Defendant Herb Fox’s Motion to
Strike Plaintiff Park’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 2143] is MOOT.
C. Motion Requesting Disclosure
of Counsel’s Address [Plaintiff Jinwoo Park]
Plaintiff Jinwoo Park’s Motion to
Request the State Bar for Defendant Keith Kim’s Residence Address is DENIED.
D. Motion for Appointment of
Attorney [Plaintiff Jinwoo Park]
Plaintiff Jinwoo Park’s Motion to
Request [] Appointment of Attorney is DENIED.