  Case Number:  23NWCV01672    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  F Performance Marketing v. thor motor coach, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01672
HEARING:   12/15/23 @ 10:30 AM
JUDGE: OLIVIA
ROSALES
 
Tentative Ruling 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Stay is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Thor Motor Coach, Inc. (Defendant) moves for an
order staying this action pursuant to a forum selection clause.
Background
Plaintiff
Performance Marketing, LLC (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Thor Motor Coach, Inc. and Mike Thompson RV alleging violation of the
Song-Beverly Act related to Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2022 Thor Industry 23TW
RV. Defendant argues that the warranty contains a forum selection clause which
provides that Indiana is the exclusive jurisdiction for claims under the
warranty.
Legal
Standard
Ordinarily
the party opposing enforcement of a forum selection clause bears the burden of
proving enforceability, however, “that burden is reversed when the claims at
issue are based on unwaivable rights created by California statutes.” (Verdugo
v. Alliantgroup L.P. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147.) 
Discussion

Defendant has met its burden of proving that
the forum selection clause is enforceable because Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act
rights can be readily preserved and the forum selection clause is not
unconscionable. First, Plaintiff argues that a stipulation to not oppose
applying the Song-Beverly Act in Indiana will not preserve Plaintiff’s rights
because the Indiana court must determine whether to apply California
Song-Beverly Act to the matter in Indiana. However, this concern can be
remedied by staying this matter while the Indiana case is pending and should
the Indiana court decline to apply the Song-Beverly Act, then Plaintiff can
move to lift the stay on this matter. Second, Plaintiff argues that the
warranty clause is unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion. “A
forum selection clause need not be subject to negotiation to be enforceable.
[Citations.] Rather, a forum selection clause contained in a contract of
adhesion, and thus not the subject of bargaining, is ‘enforceable absent a
showing that it was outside the reasonable expectations of the weaker or
adhering party or that enforcement would be unduly oppressive or
unconscionable.’ [Citations.]” (Drulias v. 1st Century Bancshares, Inc.
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 696, 707-708.) Plaintiff fails to show that the forum
selection clause is unreasonable or oppressive. Plaintiff also argues that it
did not agree to the terms of the warranty including the forum selection clause
because there is no evidence that it received the full warranty. First,
Plaintiff is availing itself of the warranty by filing this action and cannot
now claim that it should relieved of its obligations but be granted the
privileges under the warranty. Second, Plaintiff signed the Warranty
Registration Form which contains the forum selection clause. (Koehn Decl. Ex.
B.) Therefore, the forum selection clause is enforceable because Defendant has
met its burden of proving that Plaintiff signed the forum selection clause and
Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Rights can be readily preserved.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Stay is GRANTED. This matter is stayed during the
pendency of the matter in Indiana courts. Defendant is to sign a stipulation to
not oppose the application of California law in Indiana courts and should the
Indiana courts decline to apply Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act rights in their
jurisdiction, Plaintiff may move to lift the stay in this Court.