  Case Number:  21STCV28751    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Neal S. Zaslavsky, Morris Y. Friedman, and Anna Shirley
Friedman’s Motion for Sanctions against Plaintiff Michael Zellner is GRANTED in
part. Plaintiff’s amended answer filed on December 21, 2023, is stricken, and $5,560
in sanctions and $61.65 in fees are awarded against Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
I.                  
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS
(b) By presenting to the court, whether
by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition,
written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented
party is certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information,
and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of
the following conditions are met:
 
(1) It is not being presented primarily
for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or
needless increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2) The claims, defenses, and other
legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law.
 
(3) The allegations and other factual
contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery.
 
(4) The denials of factual contentions
are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably
based on a lack of information or belief.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd.
(b).) Although a represented party is not subject to sanctions under
subdivision (2) of the above statute for filing a claim without legal basis,
they may be subject to sanctions under any other subdivision if the conditions
are met. (See Laborde v. Aronson (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 459, 466,
disapproved on other grounds in Musaelian v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th
512.) 
Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Neal S. Zaslavsky, Morris Y. Friedman, and Anna Shirley
Friedman (Defendants) move for sanctions against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
Michael Zellner (Plaintiff). Defendants seek$33,384.87 in monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and his counsel, an order striking Plaintiff’s belatedly
filed amended answer to Defendants’ cross-complaint, and an order striking
Plaintiff’s complaint with prejudice. (Motion at p. ii.)
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s complaint “lacks any factual or legal support,” and is
therefore subject to sanctions. (Motion at pp. 7–8.) Defendants also argue that
Plaintiff failed to file an amended answer within the 20 days allotted for
leave to amend after this court’s order of March 1, 2022, and instead filed an
amended answer without leave of court on December 21, 2023, after the issue was
raised at a December 6, 2023 status conference. 
 
Plaintiff
responds that the amended answer was filed to preserve affirmative defenses
that had already been stated, and that no new facts were included save those
that Plaintiff had already identified in discovery. (Opposition at p. 3.)
Plaintiff argues that the sanctions sought here are not designed to deter
repetitive misconduct, but only to punish Plaintiff. (Opposition at p. 4.)
Plaintiff also argues that the amount of sanctions and the hourly rates sought
are unsupported. (Opposition at pp. 6–9.)
 
Defendants
have demonstrated entitlement to an order striking the amended answer. The time
in which Plaintiff could freely file an amended answer expired before the
hearing on Defendants’ demurrer, per Code of Civil Procedure § 472. Leave of
court was thereafter required to file an amended pleading, and 20 days’ of such
leave  were granted to Plaintiff, which
he did not use to file the amended pleading, instead waiting more than a year
to do so. Plaintiff offers no legal basis to believe that his amended answer
was procedurally valid. An order striking this answer is therefore appropriate.
 
But
Defendants have presented no basis for striking the Complaint. Their motion
contains no discussion of the legal theories or factual support underlying
Plaintiff’s claims. The argument on this point rests entirely on repeated
characterizations of the complaint as a “shakedown,” without elaboration.
(Motion at pp. 1, 6, 7.) This is insufficient basis to grant dispositive relief
on Plaintiff’s complaint, let alone to find its prosecution sanctionable.
 
Defendants
seek $33,384.87, of which $23,593.22 in fees (for 31.6 hours at $695 per hour)
and $1,631.22 in expenses incurred prior to the present motion. (Zaslavsky
Decl. ¶ 12.) Another $9,791.65 represents 14 hours of attorney work at the same
rate for this motion, plus a $61.65 filing fee. (Ibid.)
 
Defendants are entitled to limited sanctions against
Plaintiff’s counsel associated with the filing of this motion, as the amended
answer was filed without reasonable legal basis, under subdivision (b)(2).
However, this court lacks evidence to conclude that the amended answer was
filed for an improper purpose, such as delay or harassment. The ready
explanation for the tardy filing of the amended answer is a belated and
fruitless effort to preserve affirmative defenses that Plaintiff had already
forfeited by delay. Because the sanctionable fault is the legal infirmity of
the answer, monetary sanctions are not awardable against Plaintiff personally.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (d)(1) [“Monetary sanctions may not
be awarded against a represented party for a violation of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (b).”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s arguments against these fees are unpersuasive.
Limited to those fees necessary to correct the filing of the errant answer, the
fees are “sufficient to deter repetition of this conduct or comparable conduct
by others similarly situated.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (d).) The hourly
rate of Defendants’ counsel is supported by his testimony concerning his
experience, as well as comparisons to prevailing rates for attorneys of similar
experience in the legal community. (Zaslavsky Decl. ¶ 11.) His testimony on the
time worked for this motion is sufficient to support the request for fees
related thereto, without the addition of timesheets. Although Plaintiff argues
that Zaslavsky cannot recover fees for representing himself (Opposition at p.
7), he may recover fees for representing his codefendants, who likewise bring
the motion.
 
The motion for sanctions is therefore GRANTED in part.
Plaintiff’s amended answer is stricken, and $5,560 in sanctions and $61.65 in
fees are awarded against Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
 
 