  Case Number:  19STCV37687    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  32      LENNY & LARRY’S,    LLC,                         Plaintiff,             v.   A&B INGREDIENTS,    INC.,                          Defendant.           Case No.:  19STCV37687   Hearing Date:  October 11, 2023        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 5               BACKGROUND             On October 21, 2019, Lenny &  Larry’s, LLC filed this action against Defendant A&B Ingredients, Inc. The  operative Second Amended Complaint, filed June 6, 2022, alleges (1) breach of  the implied warranty of merchantability, (2) breach of the implied warranty of  fitness, (3) negligent misrepresentation, (4) fraudulent misrepresentation, and  (5) unfair competition. The complaint arises from the following facts.             Plaintiff is a manufacturer of  health and fitness oriented food products, such as cookies. Defendant sells a  variety of ingredients to food manufacturers, including Plaintiff. The  particular ingredient at issue in this case is the antioxidant CytoGuard.  CytoGuard is a cultured dextrose powder (“CDP”). Plaintiff alleges that the inclusion  of CDP in its cookies caused the products to have an “off flavor” and “soapy”  taste, leading to customer complaints and forcing Plaintiff to discontinue  sales. Plaintiff contends that the cause of the flavor issue was the presence  of lipase in the CDP.               On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff  filed the instant motion in limine no. 5 to exclude agreements between  Plaintiff and its partner bakeries (co-packers), including indemnification and  limitation of liability provisions therein. Defendant filed its opposition on  September 28, 2023. Plaintiff filed its reply on October 4, 2023. LEGAL STANDARD             The Court has the inherent power and  responsibility to grant a motion in limine to exclude “any kind of  evidence which could be objected to at trial, either as irrelevant or subject  to discretionary exclusion as unduly prejudicial.” (Clemens v. American Warranty  Corp. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 444, 451.) “The advantage of such motions is to  avoid the obviously futile attempt to ‘unring the bell’ in the event a motion to  strike is granted in the proceedings before the jury.” (Hyatt v. Sierra Boat  Co. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 325, 337.)  DISCUSSION I.  Relevance “No evidence is admissible except relevant  evidence.” (Evid. Code, § 350.) “‘Relevant evidence’ means evidence, including  evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having  any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of  consequence to the determination of the action.” (Id., § 210.)  Plaintiff argues that the co-packer  agreements are irrelevant because the co-packers are not parties to the action  and the agreements are not at issue. Plaintiff contends that the co-packer  agreements do not tend to prove or disprove any fact material to the action.  However, the agreements spell out the  obligations of the bakeries with respect to, among other things, obtaining and  testing the ingredients, and the manufacture and testing of the final product.  (See, e.g., Choi Decl., Ex. 5.) Because the bakeries were responsible  for certain aspects of the cookie production that could have affected flavor, the  agreements are relevant to identifying potential alternative causes of the  flavor issue. While Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s CDP caused the flavor  issue, Defendant is entitled to proffer alternative causes.  II.  Prejudice “The court in its discretion may exclude  evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability  that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create  substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of  misleading the jury.” (Evid. Code, § 352.)  Plaintiff argues that the jury is likely  to be misled by evidence that Plaintiff has been indemnified by the co-packers on  matters unrelated to this action. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that the  indemnification provisions in the co-packer agreements may incorrectly suggest  that Plaintiff has been made whole. The Court does not find that the risk of  prejudice described by Plaintiff outweighs the probative value of the  agreements, as discussed above. The indemnity provisions may be redacted. This  is not a reason to exclude the contracts entirely.       Plaintiff also argues that the jury will  be misled by focus on the liability of a nonparty instead of the causes of  action and affirmative defenses at issue. However, potential alternative causes  are related to the causes of action at issue. The fact that the bakeries are  not parties to the action does not preclude admission of evidence about them. Defendant  is entitled to rebut Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant’s CDP caused the  flavor issue by introducing evidence that something else besides CDP caused the  flavor issue. Furthermore, Defendant’s fourth and eighth affirmative defenses relate  to third-party liability. Therefore, the evidence is relevant to an affirmative  defense. Defendant is not attempting to distract the jury with evidence of some  unrelated issue, and the jury is not likely to be confused just because the evidence  concerns a nonparty. As the factfinder, the jury is entitled to consider conflicting  evidence regarding the cause of the flavor issue.    III.  Collateral Source Rule “The collateral source rule states that ‘if  an injured party receives some compensation for his injuries from a source  wholly independent of the tortfeasor, such payment should not be deducted from  the damages which the plaintiff would otherwise collect from the tortfeasor.’” (Moore  v. Mercer (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 424, 437, quoting Helfend v. Southern  California Rapid Transit Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 1, 6.) “The collateral  source rule operates both as a substantive rule of damages and as a rule of  evidence. As a rule of evidence, it precludes the introduction of evidence of  the plaintiff being compensated by a collateral source unless there is a ‘persuasive  showing’ that such evidence is of ‘substantial probative value’ for purposes  other than reducing damages.” (Arambula v. Wells (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th  1006, 1015, quoting Hrnjak v. Graymar, Inc. (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 725, 733.)  Plaintiff argues that the co-packer  agreements are inadmissible to show that Plaintiff will be compensated through indemnification,  as that constitutes a collateral source independent of Defendant. However, Defendant  does not seek to admit the agreements for that purpose. As discussed above, the  agreements are relevant to showing that the bakeries were responsible for the  flavor issue rather than Defendant. The bakeries would be proffered as an  alternative cause, not a collateral source.  CONCLUSION             Plaintiff’s motion in limine  no. 5 is DENIED. However, Plaintiff may redact the indemnification provision of  the contracts.


 
LENNY & LARRY’S,
  LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
A&B INGREDIENTS,
  INC., 
                        Defendant.



 
  Case No.:  19STCV37687
  Hearing Date:  October 11, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 4 




 


 


BACKGROUND            On October 21, 2019, Lenny &
Larry’s, LLC filed this action against Defendant A&B Ingredients, Inc. The
operative Second Amended Complaint, filed June 6, 2022, alleges (1) breach of
the implied warranty of merchantability, (2) breach of the implied warranty of
fitness, (3) negligent misrepresentation, (4) fraudulent misrepresentation, and
(5) unfair competition. The complaint arises from the following facts.            Plaintiff is a manufacturer of
health and fitness oriented food products, such as cookies. Defendant sells a
variety of ingredients to food manufacturers, including Plaintiff. The
particular ingredient at issue in this case is the antioxidant CytoGuard.
CytoGuard is a cultured dextrose powder (“CDP”). Plaintiff alleges that the inclusion
of CDP in its cookies caused the products to have an “off flavor” and “soapy”
taste, leading to customer complaints and forcing Plaintiff to discontinue
sales. Plaintiff contends that the cause of the flavor issue was the presence
of lipase in the CDP.              On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion in limine no. 4 to exclude evidence of
settlement communications. Defendant filed its opposition on September 28,
2023. Plaintiff filed its reply on October 4, 2023.LEGAL STANDARD            The Court has the inherent power and
responsibility to grant a motion in limine to exclude “any kind of
evidence which could be objected to at trial, either as irrelevant or subject
to discretionary exclusion as unduly prejudicial.” (Clemens v. American Warranty
Corp. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 444, 451.) “The advantage of such motions is to
avoid the obviously futile attempt to ‘unring the bell’ in the event a motion to
strike is granted in the proceedings before the jury.” (Hyatt v. Sierra Boat
Co. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 325, 337.) DISCUSSION“Evidence that a person has accepted or
offered or promised to accept a sum of money or any other thing, act, or
service in satisfaction of a claim, as well as any conduct or statements made
in negotiation thereof, is inadmissible to prove the invalidity of the claim or
any part of it.” (Evid. Code, § 1154.) “The rule prevents parties from being
deterred from making offers of settlement and facilitates the type of candid
discussion that may lead to settlement. The public policy in favor of
settlement of disputes makes it inadvisable to penalize the person who seeks
settlement by allowing his unaccepted offer to be used as an admission.” (Carney
v. Santa Cruz Women Against Rape (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1009, 1023, internal
citations omitted.) Section 1154 “broadly precludes the introduction of
statements made in the context of settlement negotiations.” (Zhou v.
Unisource Worldwide (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1471, 1478.) Here, Plaintiff seeks to exclude evidence
of its correspondence with Defendant and Western Pacific Foods, which Plaintiff
contends are settlement offers or related communications falling under Section
1154. Western Pacific is not a party to this action, but Plaintiff has claimed
that Western Pacific’s margarine ingredient caused the flavor issue. (Katel
Decl., Ex. 3.) In this case, Plaintiff claims that Defendant A&B’s CytoGuard
CDP caused the flavor issue. Defendant argues that the motion should be denied because
the communications were not offers of compromise, nor will they be used to
prove the invalidity of Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff has not identified any
particular evidence that it seeks to exclude, beyond a November 2018 email sent
to Defendant A&B. (See Choi Decl., TE 58.)            a. Offer of Compromise            “[A] letter itemizing what the
sender thinks the recipient owes him or her and demanding payment, even under
threat of legal action, is, in effect, a bill and not an offer in settlement or
a document in settlement negotiations.” (Zhou v. Unisource Worldwide
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1471, 1477.) “A statement by a claimant concerning the extent
of his injuries or disease, or concerning the amount of damages he or she
claims to have suffered, if ‘not connected with an offer of compromise,’ may
well constitute an admissible admission.” (Volkswagen of America, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1494.) With that being said, “the
question which statements are ‘connected’ and which statements are ‘independent’
. . . must be answered in light of the strong policy in favor of promoting
candor during settlement negotiations embodied in the statute.” (Caira v.
Offner (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 12, 36.) Section 1154 covers “not only
settlement offers and demands but also ‘any conduct or statements made in negotiation
thereof.’” (Zhou, supra, 157 Cal.App.4th at p. 1478.) The correspondence listed as Trial Exhibit
58 is a November 2018 email from Plaintiff’s former employee, Robert Rhodes, to
Defendant titled “CytoGuard Loss Claim.” (Choi Decl., TE 58.1.) The email
informs Defendant that Plaintiff’s investigation has revealed that Defendant’s
CDP caused the soapy flavor. (Ibid.) The email states that Plaintiff is “seeking
recovery of our financial damages which are in excess of $1.2MM.” (Ibid.)
The email invites Defendant to a phone call for Plaintiff to provide more
detail regarding its findings and to answer Defendant’s questions, and plans a
follow-up visit to Defendant’s facility to discuss Plaintiff’s recovery for its
losses. (Ibid.) The email ends by expressing a desire “to bring[] this
matter to a rapid closure.” (Ibid.) The email attaches a spreadsheet,
titled “Loss Summary,” detailing costs totaling around $1.2 million. (Id.,
TE 58.2.) The email also attaches the Rothamel Report that Plaintiff relied on
to determine the cause of the soapy flavor. (Id., TE 58.3-58.14.) Defendant argues that because this
communication contains a full itemization (TE 58.2), and Rhodes testified that
he sought “full compensation” (Katel Decl., Ex. 5 at 110:22-111:3), the communication
is nothing more than a bill. However, the correspondence suggests that
Plaintiff was not seeking full compensation for all damages. (See TE
58.13 [“we are seeking recovery of our direct financial losses” but not “commercial
and market damage that has already occurred”].) Rhodes also testified that “there
are other market costs that we did not include in here.” (Katel Decl., Ex. 5 at
111:11-14.) Therefore, the communication is not a mere bill of all damages.  Zhou, the case upon which Defendant
relies, does not stand for the proposition that a communication cannot be
related to settlement merely because it contains a precise itemization. Instead,
Zhou acknowledged that courts broadly interpret what constitutes a
settlement-related communication. (Zhou, supra, 157 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1477-78.) Hence, the letters at issue in Zhou were considered
settlement-related even though they were “arguably preliminary to the actual
negotiations,” and “neither letter included a specific offer to discount [the plaintiff’s]
claims or suggested in what way he might be prepared to compromise his demands.”
(Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff offered to accept $1.2
million to resolve the matter and invited Defendant to further discuss the
claim. (TE 58.1.) The email is not a bare demand for money. The communication is
sufficiently related to settlement to fall under Section 1154. b. Admissibility A communication that constitutes an offer
of compromise is still admissible if it is not used “to prove the invalidity of
the claim or any part of it.” (See Evid. Code, § 1154.) “Section 1154 makes an
offer of compromise inadmissible to show invalidity of the claim to which the
offer related.” (Zhou, supra, 157 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1478.) It does not
bar evidence “to show the invalidity of a different claim.” (Ibid.) Western Pacific is not a party to this
action. This action alleges that Defendant A&B’s CytoGuard CDP caused the
soapy flavor. Plaintiff’s claim against Western Pacific is based on the theory
that Western’s aged margarine caused the soapy flavor. (Katel Decl., Ex. 3.) Therefore,
while settlement communications to Western Pacific may be inadmissible to prove
the invalidity of the claim against Western Pacific, they are admissible to
show the invalidity of a different claim, i.e., Plaintiff’s claim
against Defendant A&B. Defendant A&B is entitled to introduce evidence
of an alternative cause, such as Western Pacific’s margarine.    Defendant argues that communications between
Plaintiff and Defendant are also admissible because they would be used to
challenge Plaintiff’s credibility and demonstrate bias and motive rather than the
validity of the claim. Specifically, Defendant points out that the Rothamel
Report sent to Defendant contradicted the one sent to Western Pacific and left
out information harmful to Plaintiff’s theory. Defendant claims that it seeks
to show that Plaintiff selectively targeted Defendant rather than going after the
logical causes of the flavor issue, such as the bakeries. However, Defendant only needs the Rothamel
Report itself and other evidence of causation for this purpose. The correspondence
that Plaintiff sent to Defendant (TE 58) is still a protected settlement
communication.             c. Waiver            Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
waived the protections of Section 1154 by allowing Rhodes to testify about the
settlement offers. Defendant cites to Evidence Code section 912(a), which
waives the privileges enumerated in Sections 954, 966, 980, 994, 1014, 1033,
1034, 1035.8, 1037.5, and 1038 if “any holder of the privilege, without
coercion, has disclosed a significant part of the communication or has
consented to disclosure made by anyone.” (Evid. Code, § 912(a).) Section 912(a)
does not waive the protection enumerated in Section 1154.             Defendant also relies on People
v. Hayes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 1211, 1265, which recites Section 912 and
affirms that “[l]egal opinion and advice given the client by counsel is a
confidential communication,” which if disclosed to a third party, waives the
privilege over the communication. But Section 1154 does not concern
confidential attorney-client communications. Rather, it precludes the
introduction of settlement-related evidence at trial for the purpose of proving
the invalidity of a claim. The fact that a party testified during
discovery about settlement communications has no bearing on whether their opponent
is allowed to introduce the communications at trial to prove the invalidity of
a claim. Assuming, arguendo, that Plaintiff has waived the privilege
over certain communications, they would at most be discoverable, not admissible.
Even Section 912 does not go so far as to make communications admissible.
Communications falling under Section 912 are still subject to the rules of
admissibility, including Section 1154, if a party seeks to introduce them at
trial.  CONCLUSION            Plaintiff’s motion in limine
no. 4 is GRANTED as to Trial Exhibit 58. 
However, Defendant may use the Rothamel Report that was attached to
Exhibit 58.





















































