 Case Number:  22STCV19601    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
AREXY RIOS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CALIFORNIA EYE SPECIALISTS MEDICAL
  GROUP, INC., et al., 
                        
                       Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV19601
  Hearing Date:  October 11, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motions to compel further
  responses to requests for admission 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On June 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed
this employment discrimination action against Defendants California Eye Specialists
Medical Group, Inc.; California Eye Care, Managed Eye Care Specialist, A Medical
Group, Inc.; and California Eye Management Services, LP. Plaintiff alleges
discrimination based on her pregnancy and various wage violations.  
            On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant three motions to compel further responses from each of the
Defendants as to Requests for Admission Set One. Defendants filed their
oppositions on September 27, 2023. Plaintiff filed replies on October 4, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
“On receipt of a response to requests for
admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a
further response if that party deems that either or both of the following
apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An
objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
            A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290(b).) The Court
finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (See
Roshanian Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
RFA Nos. 3-5
            RFA Nos. 3-5 ask Defendants to
admit that Plaintiff was pregnant during her employment and that Plaintiff informed
Defendants or Defendants’ managers that she was pregnant. Defendants objected
and then responded that “Defendant is not currently in possession of sufficient
information to either admit or deny this request.” 
            “If a responding party gives lack of
information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a
request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable
inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that
the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that
party to admit the matter.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220(c).) Defendants’ response
does not satisfy this requirement. 
            Defendants argue that they have no
personal knowledge of whether Plaintiff was pregnant and claim that their
primary defense is that they did not know of Plaintiff’s pregnancy. Defendants also
contend that the information is more readily obtainable from Plaintiff herself.
However, as explained above, the Code requires Defendants to conduct a
reasonable inquiry concerning the matter and then verify that they lack
sufficient information to respond despite that inquiry. It is not a proper
response to simply assert a lack of knowledge. 
            Furthermore, the purpose of a
request for admission is “to limit the triable issues and spare the parties the
burden and expense of litigating undisputed issues.” (Brigante v. Huang (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 1569, 1576.) The purpose of an RFA is not to uncover evidence,
but to eliminate the need for proof. (Id. at p. 1577.) Therefore, it is
immaterial that Plaintiff herself has knowledge of certain matters. The purpose
of the RFAs is to have Defendants admit certain facts that they do not plan on
contesting, so that the parties do not waste time litigating them at trial.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.420 [requesting party may be entitled to costs of
proof if responding party fails to admit a matter without good reason].) A further
response is required for RFA Nos. 3-5. 
II.
RFA Nos. 6, 7, 10
            RFA Nos. 6, 7, and 10 ask Defendants
to admit that Plaintiff requested an accommodation for her pregnancy, that
Defendants denied Plaintiff’s request, and that Defendants failed to engage in
an interactive process. In response to RFA No. 6, Defendants stated that they are
not currently in possession of sufficient information to determine whether
Plaintiff requested an accommodation. In response to RFA Nos. 7 and 10,
Defendants stated that the requests assume facts not in evidence because
Defendants have not admitted that Plaintiff requested an accommodation. 
As discussed above, responses based on
lack of information must comply with Section 2033.220(c). Defendants’ responses
to RFA Nos. 6, 7, and 10 are based on a purported lack of knowledge regarding
whether Plaintiff requested an accommodation. Therefore, a further response is
required for RFA Nos. 6, 7, and 10.  
III.
RFA Nos. 17, 19-24
            RFA Nos. 17 and 19-24 ask Defendants
to admit that Plaintiff complained about staffing issues, that Plaintiff was
required to travel between offices, and that Plaintiff was not reimbursed for
various business expenses. As with above, Defendants asserted a lack of sufficient
information. Again, responses based on lack of information must comply with
Section 2033.220(c). A further response is required for RFA Nos. 17 and 19-24.   
IV.
RFA No. 33
            RFA No. 33 asks Defendant California
Eye Specialists Medical Group, Inc. to admit that the wage statements Defendant
issued to Plaintiff did not accurately reflect all the wages Plaintiff earned
during her employment. Defendant responded that it could not answer because the
request is predicated on the assumption that Plaintiff earned wages from Defendant.

Defendant cites no authority for the
proposition that every foundational fact implied in an RFA must be
independently established before a party is required to respond. “Each answer
in a response to requests for admission shall be as complete and straightforward
as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220(a).) In other words, Defendant must respond if it
has sufficient information to do so. If Defendant knows that Plaintiff earned
wages, it cannot refuse to answer the RFA simply because Plaintiff has not
independently proven that fact.    
            A response to an RFA must “[a]dmit
so much of the matter involved in the request as is true” and “[d]eny so much
of the matter involved in the request as is untrue.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.220(b).) If Defendant contends that it is untrue Plaintiff earned any
wages, it must deny that part of the request. Or if Defendant does not know
whether Plaintiff earned wages, its response must comply with Section 2033.220(c).
A further response is required for RFA No. 33. 
V.
Objections
            Lastly, Defendants provide no valid
explanation in support of their boilerplate objections. Therefore, none of the
asserted objections are reasons not to answer the RFAs. Defendants must provide
substantive responses to the RFAs at issue. As discussed above, even if
Defendants lack the knowledge to admit or deny, their response must at least be
code-compliant.  
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. Defendants shall provide further responses to the
subject RFAs within 15 days. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with
substantial justification. 