 Case Number:  23BBCV02410    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES –
NORTHEAST DISTRICT DEPARTMENT V 
BARBARA STEINHAUER, Plaintiff, vs. WALMART INC., et al.,
Defendants. 
Case No.: 23BBCV02410 
Hearing Date: March 1, 2024 Time: 9:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF BARBARA STEINHAUER’S MOTION
FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE 
MOVING PARTIES: 
Plaintiff Barbara Steinhauer RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Walmart, Inc. Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Setting Preference Pursuant to
C.C.P. § 36(a) The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers
filed in connection with this motion. 
BACKGROUND
 Plaintiff Barbara
Steinhauer filed this personal injury action on October 17, 2023 against
Defendants Walmart, Inc. and Hal Halmon. Plaintiff, an 83 year old woman,
alleges that she tripped and fell at the subject premises, Walmart Supercenter
#5686 at 1301 N Victory Pl, Burbank, CA 91502, over a pallet. Plaintiff moves
for an order for trial preference. 
 LEGAL STANDARD
 Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (a) provides: (a) A party to a civil action
who is over¿70 years¿of age¿may petition the court for a preference, which the
court shall grant if the court makes¿both¿of the following findings: (1)
The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health
of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party’s interest in the litigation. If the court makes these findings, trial
preference is mandatory – the court lacks discretion to deny the relief.
(Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692.) The purpose of
section 36, subdivision (a) is “to safeguard litigants beyond a specified age
against the legislatively acknowledged risk that death or incapacity might
deprive them of the opportunity to have their case effectively tried and the
opportunity to recover their just measure of damages or appropriate redress.”
(Kline v. Superior Court (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d 512, 515.) Upon the granting of
a motion for trial preference, “the court shall set the matter for trial not
more than 120 days from that date.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).) 
DISCUSSION 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff has a substantial interest
in the action as a whole. The issue here is whether Plaintiff’s health is such
that preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interest in the
litigation. This motion is accompanied by the Declaration of Tyler J. Barnett,
Plaintiff’s counsel, who declares that Plaintiff receives daily care from her
son, requires in home assistance, has been diagnosed with Respiratory Syncytial
Virus (RSV) which weakens immune systems and may require hospitalization, and
has pre-existing comorbidities including Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
(COPD), pneumonia, thyroid disease, hypertension, high cholesterol,
hyperlipidemia, renal cysts, sepsis, and tremors. (Barnett Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) He
declares based on the information, Plaintiff’s long-term survivability is
questionable and it remains doubtful that she will survive to attend a
regularly scheduled trial date. (Id. ¶ 6.) Defendant argues that “Plaintiff has
yet to be able to fully describe the conditions she is claiming were caused by
the incident, which could dramatically increase the number of experts and time
required for Defendants to prepare for its defense.” (Opp. p. 1.) Defendant
provides no authority for the requirement that Plaintiff’s conditions linked to
the incident alleged in this case. The court finds attorney Barnett’s
declaration to be sufficient to establish the Section 36 criteria. (See Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal. App. 5th 529, 534 [“The standard under
subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision (d), which is more specific and more
rigorous, includes no requirement of a doctor’s declaration.”].) The court does
not find persuasive Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s issues are so complex
that granting trial preference will be prejudicial. Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Trial is set 6/25/24, at 10:00 A.M., in Department V. 
Final status conference is set 6/6/24 at 8:30 a.m., in
Department V. 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
DATED: March 1, 2024 
 
_____________________________ 
Sarah J. Heidel Judge of the Superior Cour