 Case Number:  23STCV07113    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  57 Maria Monarrez (“Plaintiff”) sued her former employer Edris Plastics MFG, Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging that she was terminated from her employment by Defendant because she filed a workers’ compensation claim after suffering a workplace injury.  Plaintiff further alleges, inter alia, that this termination was wrongful in violation of public policy and amounted to discrimination on the basis of a disability and retaliation for filing a workers' compensation claim in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act.   Pending before the Court is Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to provide further responses to Special Interrogatory Number 26  (“SROG 26”) that Plaintiff propounded on Defendant.  Plaintiff also requested in the motion an order imposing monetary sanctions against the Defendant in the form of the attorney's fees that the Plaintiff incurred in connection with the motion.  The Court is granting the motion in part.SROG 26 asks Defendant to identify all former and current employees of Defendant, other than the Plaintiff, who filed a workers’ compensation claim arising from their employment with the Defendant.  It also asks Defendant to state the job title of those employees at the time they filed their claim(s), their dates of employment, whether (in the case of former employees) the employee was fired, laid-off or quit, and the contact details for the employee.  Defendant objected to SROG 26 on the ground that information about the filing of workers' compensation claims that Plaintiff seeks is personal and private information of the current and former employees who filed such claims.  In its opposition to the Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant cited as statutory support for its position Civil Code Section 56.20(c), which prohibits an employer from disclosing  medical information in its possession about an employee without the employee’s consent.  Defendant's opposition also stated that SROG 26 was objectionable because it had no limitation -- it sought the identity of employees who filed workers' compensation claims throughout the entire history of the Defendant.SROG 26 seeks information that is relevant to Plaintiff's claims.  The claims rest on the allegation that Plaintiff was terminated because she filed a workers' compensation claim.  Defendant's treatment of other employees who filed workers' compensation claim is relevant to Plaintiff's claims.  This is permissible "me too" evidence in an employment discrimination  case.  Section 56.20(c) does not bar disclosure of the information that Plaintiff seeks in SROG 26.   For one, Section 56.20(c)(1) states that an employer may disclose employee medical information if compelled to do so by a court.  Additionally, as pertinent here, Section 56.05(j) defines "medical information" as "medical history" or "mental or physical condition or treatment."  Disclosure of the names of employees who filed workers' compensation claims is not the disclosure of their medical history or their mental or physical condition or treatment.  It simply reveals who filed claims, not what those claims were about and the history of the claims. Further, disclosure to the Plaintiff of an employee's medical history or mental or physical condition or treatment will occur only if Plaintiff contacts the employee based on the contact details Defendant provides and, in the course of communications with Plaintiff, the employee discloses that information to the Plaintiff.The Court agrees with the Defendant that SROG 26 is objectionable because it has no time limitation whatsoever.  To rectify this problem, the Court is imposing one.  Plaintiff alleges that she filed a workers' compensation claim in August 2021 and was terminated a month later in September 2021.  Given that allegation, in providing further responses to SROG 26, Defendant is to go back in time only to January 1, 2017, not to the start of Defendant's operations. The end date for the further responses is December 31, 2022.  In the Court's view, this five-year window for the further responses is reasonable.   Defendant is to provide Plaintiff with further responses to SROG 26 by January 31, 2025.  The Court recognizes that the production date is within a month of the dates of the final status conference and trial in this case.  The Court will consider a request to continue those dates.The Court is denying Plaintiff's request for an order imposing monetary sanctions against the Defendant.  Sanctions are not warranted here because the Court believes that Defendant's position in this discovery dispute was substantially justified.  