  Case Number:  21TRCV00284    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Thursday, October 5, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 10
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
S. Roger Rombro, et al. v. Augustin Pyo
            21TRCV00284
1.      S. Roger Rombro, et al.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration
and Request for Trial De Novo 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            S. Roger Rombro, et al.’s Petition
to Compel Arbitration and Request for Trial De Novo is denied without prejudice.
  
 
Background 
            
            Petitioners filed the Petition on
May 16, 2023. Petitioners allege the following facts. This action arises from
an agreement to provide legal services. The parties proceeded to non-binding
arbitration. Petitioners file the instant petition to request binding
arbitration. 
 
            Petition to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
Petitioner moves for an order compelling binding contractual arbitration.
The petition is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281 et seq. on the
grounds that respondent is bound by a written agreement to arbitrate the
subject matter of the Petition. Code
Civ. Proc. §1281.2. Petitioner argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists
between the parties that requires arbitration of this dispute.  
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in relevant part: “On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists [. . .]” 
 
The petition to compel arbitration is denied without prejudice.
Petitioner has established the existence of a valid arbitration agreement.
However, Petitioner has not established that Respondent has refused to
arbitrate. Thus, having not met its initial burden to establish that
arbitration must be ordered, the burden does not shift to Respondent to show
that the arbitration clause should not be enforced. In fact, Respondent filed a
written opposition stating specifically that he has not refused to arbitrate.  
 
Therefore, the Petition to Compel Arbitration is denied without prejudice.
 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice of this ruling.