  Case Number:  23STCV02273    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November 21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV16488




MOTION


Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Zee Spezzano




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants and Cross-Complainants Marco Campo and Earleen
  Campo



 
MOTION
Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Zee Spenzzano (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants and
Cross-Complainants Marco Campo and Earleen Campo (“Defendants”) regarding a
dispute over a residential lease. 
Defendants cross-complained against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff demurs to Defendants’
cross-complaint.  Plaintiff also moves to
strike portions of the cross-complaint. 
Defendants oppose the motions. 
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
First Cause of Action: Violation
of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 45.33  
Los Angeles
Municipal Code section 45.33 (section 45.33, which is part of the Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance, prohibits a landlord from harassing a tenant.  Harassment is “defined as a landlord’s
knowing and willful course of conduct directed at a specific tenant that
seriously alarms or annoys the tenant, and that serves no legitimate purpose .
. . .”   (L.A. Mun. Code, § 45.33.) 
In the instant case, Defendants allege Plaintiff took away Defendants’ storage
space, to which Defendants were entitled pursuant to terms in the lease, under
the pretext of building an accessory dwelling unit; Plaintiff had no plans to
build an accessory dwelling unit, and instead intended to drive Defendants to
break their lease so that Plaintiff could lease the premises at a higher rent; Plaintiff
installed cameras in the shared backyard space to surveil Defendants’ children;
Plaintiff installed a motion-activated floodlight to shine into Defendants’
bedroom; and Plaintiff demanded Defendants provide documentation that the lease
did not require and threatened failure to do so would lead to an eviction.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 48-50.)  For pleading purposes, these allegations
suffice to ward off Plaintiff’s challenge to the cross-complaint by way of this
motion.  Plaintiff may obtain further
information regarding Defendants’ claims through discovery.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
Second Cause of Action: Private Nuisance

To state a claim
for private nuisance, Defendants must allege Plaintiff interfered with Defendants’
use and enjoyment of the rental property; Plaintiff’s invasion of Defendants’
use and enjoyment of the property caused actual damage; and the interference was
unreasonable as to its nature, duration, or amount.  (San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v.
Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.) 
As set forth above in paragraphs 48 through 50, Defendants detail the
conduct in which Plaintiff engaged that constituted nuisance behavior.  Additionally, Defendants allege Plaintiff
failed to inspect and take all necessary steps to remove mold from the property.
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 56.)  Defendants’
allegations state a claim for private nuisance.
Plaintiff argues
that Defendants’ claim for private nuisance is duplicative. That is immaterial,
as Defendants are permitted to plead in the alternative.  (Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co.
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402.)  
Third Cause of Action: Breach of
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
To state a claim
for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, Defendants must allege Plaintiff
leased property to Defendants and thereafter interfered with Defendants’ rights
to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes of the tenancy.  (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005)
125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589 [“the landlord’s act or omission must substantially
interfere with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes
contemplated by the tenancy”].)  In
addition to the allegations made in paragraphs 48 through 50 and 56 in the
cross-complaint, Defendants allege Plaintiff’s conduct rendered the property
unfit for the purposes for which Defendants leased it and deprived Defendants
of any beneficial enjoyment of the property. 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 64, 65.)  These
allegations support Defendants’ claim for breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment.  
For the same
reasons, Defendants’ fourth cause of action for breach of lease agreement
suffices.  Defendants are entitled to
plead breach of contract in general terms.  
(Ochs v. PacifiCare of Cal. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782,
795.)  
Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action:
Negligence and Negligence Per Se, Respectively
“Ordinarily,
negligence may be pleaded in general terms and the plaintiff need not specify
the precise act or omission alleged to constitute the breach of duty.”  (Lopez v. S. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1985) 40 Cal. 3d 780, 795.)  Defendants
allege Plaintiff failed to exercise due care in the management of the property,
a reflected in the allegations discussed above. 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 74-76.)  These
allegations suffice for pleading purposes. 
While Plaintiff argues the sixth cause of action is duplicative of the
fifth, as set forth above, that is immaterial.
Motion to Strike
Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiffs’
prayer for punitive damages.  To state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements
set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)  Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, a
plaintiff must allege the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute
as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (College
Hospital, supra, (1994) 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) 
“The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient
to warrant an award of punitive damages. 
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but
facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and
footnotes omitted.)  
Defendants fail to allege specific facts showing
Plaintiff acted with oppression, fraud, or malice where, with respect to the
second cause of action, Defendants simply state Plaintiff’s acts were “intentional,
willful, and malicious” and Defendants “are also entitled to receive punitive
damages, pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code § 3294.” 
As such, Defendants must amend their claim for punitive damages.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s
demurrer to Defendants’ cross-complaint is overruled. 
Plaintiff’s motion
to strike is granted, but Defendants have leave to amend.  Defendants are to file an amended cross-complaint
within 20 days.
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 