 Case Number:  23STCV02273C    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV02273




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Jane Doe



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Defendant”) for sexual
harassment.  Plaintiff alleges that two
other employees of Defendant, Defendant David Weitzel (“Weitzel”) and Defendant
Eric Pagel (“Pagel”), sexually harassed Plaintiff while Plaintiff worked for
Defendant.  Defendant moves for summary
judgment on Plaintiff’s operative first amended complaint, or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of the first, second, and third causes of
action therein.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision(f)(1)
permits a party to move for summary adjudication “as to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims
for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the
cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause
of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim of damages, . . . or that  one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. 
A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of  cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”   
EVIDENCE
            Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections are sustained.
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Hostile Work
Environment Sexual Harassment
            Under
the Fair Employment and Housing Act, or FEHA, an employer is strictly liable
for a supervisor’s harassment of a subordinate. 
(State Dept. of Health Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th
1026, 1042.)  For purposes of FEHA, a
supervisor is anyone with authority to “hire, transfer, suspend, lay off,
recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other employees, or
the responsibility to direct them, or to adjust their grievances, or
effectively to recommend that action, if, in connection with the foregoing, the
exercise of that authority is not of a merely routine or clerical nature, but
requires the use of independent judgment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (t).)  A lead worker who has responsibility to
direct an employee's day-to-day duties may be a supervisor under FEHA.  (Chapman v. Enos (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
920, 930-931 (Chapman).)
            While
relying on Plaintiff’s deposition, Defendant argues neither Pagel nor Weitzel
were Plaintiff’s supervisors.  At
deposition, Plaintiff testified Art Saldivar, and later Mehdi Emrani (“Emrani”),
supervised her.  (Declaration of Erin J.
Cox, Exhibit A, pp. 105, 113, 826-827.) 
This evidence meets Defendant’s burden of showing Defendant is not
strictly liable for harassment of Plaintiff by Pagel or Weitzel.  
In opposition,
Plaintiff does not contend either Pagel or Weitzel supervised her.  Instead, Plaintiff argues Defendant is
strictly liable for harassment by Pagel or Weitzel if either Pagel or Weitzel
supervised anyone for Defendant.  In
support of this argument, Plaintiff cites Chapman. In that case,
the Court of Appeal held an employee was the supervisor of another employee and,
therefore, their employer was strictly liable for that employee’s harassment of
the other employee, “because he had the responsibility to direct her work.”  (Chapman, supra, 116
Cal.App.4th at p. 929.)  In the instant
case, unlike in Chapman, Plaintiff fails to show either Pagel or
Weitzel had the authority to direct her work. 
That Pagel or Weitzel may have directed the work of others is irrelevant
to the determination of whether Defendant is strictly liable for their
harassment of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff,
therefore, fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Defendant is strictly liable for harassment of Plaintiff by Pagel or Weitzel.
            If
Defendant is not strictly liable for the alleged harassment of Plaintiff by
Pagel or Weitzel, Plaintiff must show Defendant knew of previous harassment by
Pagel or Weitzel, or failed to take prompt, reasonable, and effective remedial
action.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1);
State Dept. of Health Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026,
1041.)  Defendant advances evidence Plaintiff
reported to Defendant’s ethics hotline on November 9, 2020 Pagel assaulted
Plaintiff.  (Declaration of Erin J. Cox,
Exhibit A, p. 897.)  On the same date, Plaintiff
informed Emrani, her supervisor, Pagel assaulted her.  (Id., Exhibit A, pp. 919-921.)  On November 10, 2020, Emrani submitted a
request to Defendant’s human resources department to open an investigation into
Pagel’s assault of Plaintiff.  Pursuant
to instructions from human resources, Emrani reported Pagel’s assault of
Plaintiff to another employee relation system on November 12, 2020.  (Id., Exhibit D, pp. 54-57, 70-71.)  
Defendant assigned
the matter to Kimberlee Whitman (“Whitman”), a human resources consultant, who interviewed
Plaintiff on November 19, 2024, and confirmed Plaintiff’s allegations against
Pagel.  Whitman interviewed Plaintiff
again on December 15, 2020 and spoke to her on January 12, 2021; then, at
Plaintiff’s request, Whitman interviewed Plaintiff again on January 20, 2021.  (Declaration of Erin J. Cox, Exhibit A, p.
966, Exhibit B, pp. 48, 307, 335-337, 401.) 
On December 1, 2020, because of the pending investigation, Defendant had
put Pagel on administrative leave when Pagel returned from vacation.  (Id., Exhibit 166.)  
As part of her
investigation, Whitman interviewed Emrani on November 24, 2020 and June 23,
2021; Weitzel on December 2, 2020 and January 21, 2020; Pagel on December 9 and
28, 2020; and other potential witnesses on December 1, 2020, January 29, 2021,
and February 21 and 24, 2021.  (Declaration
of Erin J. Cox, Exhibit B, pp. 83, 87, 101, 166, 184, 226, 356, 371, 374, 382.)  Whitman also obtained Skype messages between
Plaintiff, Pagel, and Weitzel from Defendant’s internal forensics team and
reviewed other documents Plaintiff and other witnesses provided.  (Id., Exhibit B, pp. 77-78, Exhibit
17, Exhibit 195.)  
On April 23, 2021,
Whitman asked Plaintiff to provide her cell phone so that Defendant could
extract data pertinent to its investigation, but Plaintiff refused to do so.  (Declaration of Erin J. Cox, Exhibit 310, 312.)  On July 15, 2021, Whitman contacted Plaintiff
to request a meeting; but Plaintiff did not meet with Whitman.  (Id., Exhibits 313, 314, 315, 322,
323.)  Whitman completed her
investigation report on September 9, 2021,based on which, Defendant gave Pagel
a final notice.  (Id., Exhibits
17, 167.)  Defendant eliminated Weitzel’s
position in August 2020, after which he did not work for Defendant.  (Id., Exhibit I, pp. 213-216.)  As such, Defendant took no corrective action
against Weitzel.  
Defendant’s
evidence, detailed above, demonstrates, when Plaintiff report Page’s harassment
of her, Defendant promptly investigated the matter and took corrective action.  Therefore, Defendant met its burden of showing
it is not liable for harassment by Pagel or Weitzel because Defendant was not
negligent in its handling of the matter.
In opposition,
Plaintiff makes no argument Defendant was negligent, or remiss, in dealing with
Plaintiff’s allegations Pagel or Weitzel harassed her such that Defendant is
liable for sexual harassment.  Therefore,
Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to her first
cause of action.
Second Cause of Action: Failure
to Prevent Harassment
Plaintiff’s claim
for failure to prevent harassment is derivative of her claim for harassment.  As Defendant has met its burden of showing
Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claims for discrimination and harassment
against Defendant, Defendant likewise has met its burden of  showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on the cause
of action for failure to prevent harassment. 
Therefore, as Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of material
fact exists as to her claim for harassment, Plaintiff’s claim for failure to
prevent harassment likewise fails.  (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  
Third Cause of Action: Retaliation
To prevail on a claim for retaliation,
Plaintiff must establish “by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation
for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested
employment action.  . . .  Once the plaintiff has made the required
showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.”  (Lawson v. PPG
Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)  
Defendant advances
evidence Plaintiff began a leave of absence in April 2021 and filed a complaint
of retaliation with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on April 29,
2021.  In her complaint, Plaintiff stated
she had been subjected to adverse actions since she reported the incidents of
harassment, including reassignment of clients under her jurisdiction without her
input, threat of removal from lucrative accounts, and exclusion from important
client communications necessary for Plaintiff to carry out her duties and
obligations.  These are not materially
adverse employment actions.  “A change
that is merely contrary to the employee's interests or not to the employee's
liking is insufficient.  Workplaces are
rarely idyllic retreats, and the mere fact that an employee is displeased by an
employer's act or omission does not elevate that act or omission to the level
of a materially adverse employment action.” 
(Light v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 75, 92, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Defendant has met
its burden by showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim for retaliation,
because Defendant did not subject Plaintiff to a materially adverse employment
action.  Defendant then shifted the
burden to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff can prevail on her claim for retaliation.
In opposition,
Plaintiff concedes her claim is based on being excluded from client
relationships that would require her to work with Pagel.  (Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment, pp. 18-19.)  This was a change to Plaintiff’s employment that
was not to Plaintiff’s liking, and Plaintiff contends the change was against
her interests.  But that does not render
it an adverse employment action.  Thus, Plaintiff
has failed to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendant
subjected Plaintiff to an adverse employment action.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is granted.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.