  Case Number:  20STCV44865    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
12-13-23
Case
#20STCV44865
Trial
Date: 4-22-24 c/f 2-5-24
 
DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Saugus Union High School District, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unoppsed/Plaintiff, Solomon Perkins
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Compliance with a Deposition Subpoena
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 13, 2020, Plaintiff Solomon Perkins, a student at Tesoro Del Valle
Elementary School, a school campus within the territory of Defendant Saugus
Union School District (Saugus Union), was an enrolled student on campus, when a
fellow classmate, “Tobin,” reported to a staff member on campus that Plaintiff
was carrying a gun in his backpack. According to the complaint, Plaintiff told
Tobin he had a “Nurf-Slingshot gun” with him, which led to the
misrepresentation of an actual gun.
 
Plaintiff
is a student with special needs and a learning disability. Plaintiff attends
school with an individualized education plan (IEP), which requires the presence
of a para-professional during instructional time. The para-professional was not
present during the interactive period with Tobin.
 
Following
the report, Plaintiff’s backpack was examined by school principal, defendant
Gina Nolte. The search revealed no actual firearm or slingshot gun. Nolte
subsequently contacted the Los Angeles County Sheriff, and the “mental health
department.” According to the complaint, the mental health department
“attempted to commit Plaintiff.” 
 
Although
Plaintiff’s mother, Thea Perkins, was apparently contacted and came to the
school campus, prior to her arrival, the Sheriffs Department interrogated
Plaintiff. No other adult acting on Plaintiff’s behalf was present. Upon Thea
Perkins arriving at campus, both Plaintiff and his mother were involuntarily
detained on the premises, until they were both escorted off the premises by
armed deputies. 
 
Following
the incident, Thea Perkins demanded new and different resources be assigned to
Plaintiff. The request was denied, and instead Defendant Saugus Union “disabled
access on Plaintiff’s Chromebook,” which Plaintiff used for remote learning
during the Covid school campus closure. Plaintiff has been cut-off from the
school therapist and contact via other Google applications. On a personal
level, para-professional services were also denied during remote learning, and
Plaintiff was never sent any learning supplies associated with remote learning.
 
Plaintiff
alleges a claim was submitted to Saugus Unified School District on May 28, 2020
and rejected. On November 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed a ten cause of action
complaint for Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of California Education
Code sections 200, 201, 220 and 260, Violation of Equal Protection Clause of
the California Constitution, False Imprisonment Violation of Americans with
Disability Act, Violation of California Unruh Act, Violation of California
Government Code section 1135, and Violation of 42 USC section 1983. Both
Defendants are named in all causes of action.
 
On
March 9, 2021, the action was transferred out of Department 28. On March 12,
2021, the action was assigned to Department 49. On July 12, 2021, the court
denied the special motion to strike of Saugus Union High School District. On
September 28, 2021, the court granted Plaintiff leave to file a later
government claim. 
 
On
October 28, 2021, Plaintiff filed an eleven cause of action first amended complaint
for Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of California Education Code
sections 200, 201, 220 and 260 – Discrimination on the Basis of Disability,
Violation of Equal Protection Clause of the California Constitution, False
Imprisonment, Violation of Americans with Disability Act, Violation of
California Government Code section 11135 – Discrimination Based on Disability,
Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Violation of the Equal Protection Clause,
Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Deprivation of Civil Rights, and, Violation
of 42 USC section 1983 –Monell Violations. Defendant Saugus Unified School
District answered the first amended complaint on November 29, 2021. New counsel
for Plaintiff substituted into the case on January 18, 2022.
 
On
February 7, 2022, the court overruled the demurrer of Los Angeles County. Los
Angeles County answered on February 17, 2022. On April 10, 2023, the case was
reassigned to Department 51. On July 26, 2023, the case was reassigned to
Department 47 following the recusal from Department 51, and then transferred
back to Department 49.
 
RULING: Granted
Defendants Saugus Union High School District and Gina Nolte move
to compel third party, Child and Family Center to comply with a deposition
subpoena for psychiatric-psychological-counseling records of Solomon Perkins. The
court electronic filing system shows no opposition or reply. Defendants filed a
notice of non-opposition as well.
 
On April 17, 2023, Defendants served the deposition subpoena
for production of business records. Defendants later presented a HIPPA
authorization form to Thea Perkins allowing the release of the subject records,
but the form was not signed. The motion was subsequently filed.
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
books, documents, electronically stored information, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b) ... may make an order … directing compliance with
it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare...” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1, subd. (a).)
 
“[T]he mere
filing of a lawsuit does not trigger application of the patient-litigant
exception.” (Patterson v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 927, 930.) A patient may
continue to exercise a reasonable expectation of privacy of their medical
information if the information is not directly relevant to a particular
condition the patient placed in issue. (California
Consumer Health Care Council v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 21, 31.) “‘The patient thus is not obligated to sacrifice all
privacy to seek redress for a specific mental or emotional injury; the scope of
the inquiry permitted depends upon the nature of the injuries which the
patient-litigant himself has brought before the court.’” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864.) “‘The party
seeking the constitutionally protected information has the burden of
establishing that the information sought is directly relevant to the claims.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]”  (See Barrenda L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65
Cal. App. 4th 794, 801-802.) The standard for good cause requires the moving
party to produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) “[A]n implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit… [¶] … On occasion her privacy
interests may have to give way to her opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus
courts must balance the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts
against the privacy interests of persons subject to discovery.” (Id. at p. 842.) 
 
Solomon’s medical emotional medical state was placed in
issue through the filing of the subject action and damages claim, thereby
providing Defendants with the right to examine her medical history prior to the
time of the incident(s). [Declaration of Dominic Quiller, Ex. A: Responses to
Form Interrogatories.] It is
presumed that at least some of the subject counseling records directly relate
to the anguish caused by the underlying incidents. Plaintiff presents no
opposition otherwise seeking to limit production or other privileges. (In re Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d
415, 439; Patterson v. Superior Court,
supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at pp. 931-932;
see Evid. Code, § 1016, subd. (a).)
 
The court finds no reasonable alternatives for discovery of
the information exists. Defendants therefore present a basis for production of
the records. The motion to compel compliance with the subpoena is therefore
granted. Records are limited to production relating directly the subject
action, but may include prior records for purposes of establishing noticeable
changes following the course of events. Should Defendants still seek an
independent medical examination upon review of the records, and the parties are
unable to agree, the court will consider a special ex parte motion to advance
the reserved motion to compel the IME currently set for April 24, 2024.
 
Plaintiff moves for $1,625 in sanctions if any opposition to
the motion is filed. “[I]n making an order pursuant to motion made under
subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its
discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or
opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds
the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2.)
 
The request for sanctions itself was conditioned on the
existence of any opposition. The purpose of the unopposed motion itself appears
motivated by the need for a court order in order to release the records. The
court therefore finds no basis for the imposition of sanctions.
 
Defendants to arrange for compliance and production of the
subpoena within 30 days of the order.
 
Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena set for
December 26, 2023. Jury trial also remains on calendar for April 22, 2024.
 