  Case Number:  21STCV39005    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
16, 2025                               TRIAL DATE:  February 24, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Ismael Rivera Ocampo v. Kia America, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV39005
 





















 
MOTION
TO BIFURCATE TRIAL AND PROCEED BY BENCH TRIAL ON LEGALITY OF DEFENDANT’S
PRE-LITIGATION RESPONSE 
TO
PLAINTIFFS’ REPURCHASE REQUEST



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Ismael Rivera Ocampo and Martha Graciela Ocampo
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Defendant
Kia America, Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
This is a Song-Beverly action brought by plaintiffs Ismael
Rivera Ocampo and Martha Graciela Ocampo (collectively, Plaintiffs) against defendant
Kia America, Inc. (Kia).  Prior to the
commencement of this lawsuit, Plaintiffs requested Kia to repurchase the
allegedly defective vehicle.  In
response, Kia sent Plaintiffs a pre-litigation offer letter which extended
three options: (1) replacement of the vehicle, minus a mileage deduction; (2) full
repurchase of the vehicle, deducting only optional service contracts and the
statutory mileage deduction; or (3) a goodwill payment of $10,000.  Plaintiffs did not respond to Kia’s offer
letter and instead filed this lawsuit.
 
In preparation for trial, the parties filed motions in
limine.  At issue here is Plaintiffs’ Motion
in Limine (MIL) No. 13 which sought bifurcation on the legality of Kia’s
pre-litigation response to Plaintiffs’ repurchase request.  The court set a schedule for further briefing
on this issue.
 
On December 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Bifurcate
Trial and Proceed By Bench Trial on Legality of Defendant’s Pre-Litigation
Response to Plaintiff’s Repurchase Request.[1]
[2]
 
On December 23, 2024, Kia timely filed its opposition.
 
At the time of the hearing for this motion, no reply had
been filed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
                “The court may, when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby…make an order…that the trial of any issue
or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part
thereof in the case…The court, on its own motion, may make such an order at any
time.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 598.)¿   
 
“The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1048(b).)¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
                Plaintiffs argue Kia’s pre-litigation response to Plaintiff’s
repurchase request did not comply with the Song-Beverly Act because the
pre-litigation letter: (1) did not include all material terms and therefore was
not an offer; (2) improperly required Plaintiffs to agree in advance to an undisclosed
settlement agreement and release; (3) improperly conditioned repurchase on Plaintiffs
waiving other legal rights; and (4) improperly conditioned repurchase on the
current condition of the vehicle.  In
short, Plaintiffs argue the repurchase request is illegal as a matter of law
and cannot constitute an “offer”.  Plaintiffs
seek an order to bifurcate this issue and have the court rule on the legality
of Kia’s pre-litigation response.
 
Plaintiffs’ further
briefing is procedurally and substantively deficient.  First and foremost, Plaintiffs do not submit
any evidence to support this motion.  More
specifically, Kia’s pre-litigation offer letter—the focus of Plaintiffs’ MIL
No. 13—is glaringly absent. As Kia points out, Plaintiffs would have this court
rule on the matter in a vacuum.  The court
denies the motion, in part, based upon this lack of evidence.  
 
Second, Plaintiffs in
limine motion is in actuality a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication.  Rather than seek to
exclude evidence, which is the focus of a motion in limine, Plaintiffs seek to
dispose of the case.  Kia is correct that
Plaintiffs’ motion is not properly brought as a motion in limine.  A motion in limine is not a substitute for a
motion for summary adjudication.  
 
Third, and relatedly,
Plaintiffs do not show how any aspect of the pre-litigation offer runs afoul of
the law.  Plaintiffs’ principal
contention is that Kia conditioned its repurchase on Plaintiffs’ agreement to a
release of all claims against Kia without providing Plaintiffs with the release
agreement.  Plaintiffs argue, the
pre-litigation offer, was illegal and therefore did not constitute an offer at
all as a matter of law.  In support,
Plaintiffs rely on inapposite authority. 
None of Plaintiffs’ case law concern pre-litigation offers.  Rather, they either concern Section 998
offers (see, e.g., Motion, pp. 4, 6, citing Sanford v. Rasnick (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 1121; McKenzie v. Ford Motor Company (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 695; and MacQuiddy v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 1036), or involve attorney fee awards after trial (see, e.g.,
Motion, p. 5, citing Goglin v. BMW of North America, LLC (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 462; and Gezalyn v. BMW of North America, LLC (C.D. Cal. 2010)
697 F.Supp.2d 1168).  Moreover, the
Song-Beverly Act expressly contemplates separate settlement agreements and
releases with the exception of confidentiality or gag clauses regarding “the problems with the vehicle, or the nonfinancial terms
of the reacquisition of the vehicle by the manufacturer, importer, distributor,
dealer, or lienholder.”  (See Civ. Code, § 1793.26.)  Kia’s pre-litigation offer does not contain
any like offending clause.  (See Laughlin
Decl., Ex. 1.)[3]
 
Plaintiffs also argue
Kia’s pre-litigation offer improperly conditioned repurchase on the current
condition of the vehicle.  Because
Plaintiffs did not provide the court with the letter, the court cannot consider
the language.  As best the court can
tell, Plaintiffs refer to a mileage deduction in Kia’s first and second options,
(repurchase, replacement of the vehicle) and inspection of the vehicle for
damage and/or excessive wear and tear in the third option (goodwill
payment).  (See Laughlin Decl., Ex.
1.)  Plaintiffs rely upon inapposite
authority.  For instance, Plaintiffs cite
Jiagbogu v. Mercedes-Benz USA (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1235 which
concerned a post-recission offset jury instruction for the plaintiffs continued
use of the vehicle after requesting repurchase. 
By contrast, Kia’s offer letter conditioned replacement or repurchase on
pre-recission mileage deduction.  This is
an authorized practice under Song-Beverly.  (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd. (d)(2)(C); see
also CACI No. 3241.)
 
Further, Plaintiffs do not demonstrate bifurcation of trial
would serve the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or promote the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation. Bifurcation is not warranted.  
 
III.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is DENIED. 

 
Defendant to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   January 16,
2025                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 


