 Case Number:  24STCP03736    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
16, 2025                                           TRIAL DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         In the Matter of:
J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC

 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP03736
 





















 
PETITION
FOR APPROVAL FOR TRANSFER OF PAYMENT RIGHTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            Payee, Dorita
Newman, by and through her guardian ad litem, Juanita Newman, received a
structured settlement in 1990 arising out of a personal injury claim.  Payee is now 59 years old and wishes to use
the proceeds from the settlement to pay rent, credit card debt, and car repairs.  
 
Petitioner, J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC, now seeks
approval of the transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights by
Payee to Petitioner and/or its assigns.
 
            The petition
is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            This
petition is governed by Insurance Code sections 10134–10139.5.[1]  (See also 321 Henderson Receivables
Origination LLC v. Sioteco (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1059, 1066.) Under Section
10137, a transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a
court reviews and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are
met:
 
(a) The transfer of the structured settlement
payment rights is fair and reasonable and in the best interest of the payee,
taking into account the welfare and support of his or her dependents.
(b) The transfer complies with the requirements of
this article, will not contravene other applicable law, and the court has
reviewed and approved the transfer as provided in Section 10139.5.
 
Pursuant to Section 10139.5,
subdivision (a), the court must make the following express findings as to a
transfer of structured settlement payment rights:
 
(1) The transfer is in the best interest of the
payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents.
(2) The payee has been advised in writing by the
transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and
has either received that advice or knowingly waived that advice in writing.
(3) The Petitioner has complied with the
notification requirements pursuant to Section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2), and
transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with
Section 10136 and the transfer agreement complies with sections 10136 and10138.
(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable
statute or the order of any court or other government authority.
(5) The payee reasonably understands the terms of
the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure
statement required by Section 10136.
(6) The payee reasonably understands and does not
wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.           
 
The transfer agreement is
effective only upon approval in a final court order.  (§ 10139.5, subd. (a).)
 
When determining whether the
proposed transfer should be approved, including whether the transfer is fair,
reasonable, and in the payee’s best interest, the court shall consider the
totality of the circumstances, including, but not limited to:
 
(1) the reasonable preference and desire of the
payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account the payee’s
age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level;
(2) the stated purpose of the transfer;
(3) the payee’s financial and economic situation;
(4) the terms of the transaction, including whether
the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of
his or her future payments;
(5) whether the future periodic payments were
intended to pay for future medical care of the payee related to the incident
that was the subject of the settlement;
(6) whether the payee has other means of income or
support sufficient to meet the payee’s future financial obligations for support
of payee’s dependents, such as child support;
(7) whether there were previous transactions
involving payee’s structured settlement payments; and
(8) whether the payee and his or her dependents are
facing a hardship situation.
 
(§ 10139.5, subd. (b).)
 
Procedurally, Section 10136,
subdivision (b) provides that ten or more days before the payee executes a
transfer agreement, the transferee shall provide the payee with a separate written
disclosure statement, accurately completed with the information that applies to
the transfer agreement in at least 12-point type. The court-approval process
requires the transferee to file a petition in the county in which the
transferor resides for approval of the transfer. (§ 10139.5, subd. (f)(1).)
 
Further, at the time of filing
such a petition, the transferee shall file a copy of the petition with the
California Attorney General.  (§ 10139.)  Lastly, the court shall retain continuing
jurisdiction to interpret and
monitor the implementation of the transfer agreement as justice
requires. (§ 10139.5, subd. (i).)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Section
10139.5(a)
 
Section 10139.5
provides that a direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement
payment rights is
not effective unless the transfer has been approved in a final court order
based
on certain express
written findings by the court. (§ 10139.5, subd. (a)(1)-(6).) Upon review of
the Petition, the court hereby makes the following findings:
 
a. That the
transfer is in the best interest of the Payee as contemplated under Section
10139.5, subd. (a)(1). (Newman Decl., ¶ 11.)
b. That under
Section 10139.5, subd. (a)(2), Payee has been advised in writing by Petitioner
to
seek independent
professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice
or
knowingly waived
that advice in writing. (Newman Decl., ¶ 12; Amended Petition, Exh. E.)
c. That under
Section 10139.5, subd. (a)(3), Petitioner has provided Payee with a disclosure
form
that complies with
Section 10136 and the transfer agreement complies with Section 10136 and
10138. (Amended Petition,
Exh. B.)
d. That under Section
10139.5, subd. (a)(4), the transfer does not contravene any applicable
statute or the
order of any court or any other government authority. (Petition, generally.)
 
B.    
Section
10139.5(b)
 
When determining
whether the proposed transfer should be approved, including whether the transfer
is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interest, the court shall consider
the total the circumstances:
 
Here, Payee states
that she is 59 years old, unmarried, without children, and self-employed as a
freelance makeup artist.  (Newman Decl.,
¶ 8.)  She further states that she is
experiencing financial hardship. Approval of this Petition will allow her
to pay past due rent of $1,700, credit card debt totaling $1,500, with the
remainder of the funds going towards car repairs. (Newman Decl., ¶ 11.) Payee
has initiated at least six prior transactions involving her structured
settlement payments.  (Id., ¶ 9.)
 
C.    
Section
10139.5(c)(1)
 
Petitioner
complies with the venue requirement under Section 10139.5, subdivision (c)(1),
as Payee resides in the County of Los Angeles. (Newman Decl., ¶ 1.)
 
D.   
Section
10139.5(f)(2)
 
The requirements
of Section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2) and Petitioner’s compliance therewith
are listed below:
 
(A) A copy of the transferee’s
current and any prior petitions. (Amended Petition, Section VI; Newman Decl., ¶
9.)
(B) A copy of the
transfer agreement. (Amended Petition, Exh. A.)
(C) A listing of
each of the Payee’s dependents, together with each dependent's age. (See Newman
Decl., ¶ 8.)
(D) A copy of the
disclosure required in subdivision (b) of section 10136. (Amended Petition,
Exh. B.)
(E) A copy of the
annuity contract. (Amended Petition, Exh. C.)
(F) A copy of any
qualified assignment agreement. (Exh. C.)
(G) A copy of the
underlying structured settlement agreement. (Exh. D.)
(H) If a copy of a
document described in subparagraph (E), (F), or (G) is unavailable or cannot
be located, then
the transferee is not required to attach a copy of that document to the petition
or
notice of the
proposed transfer if the transferee satisfies the court that reasonable efforts
to locate and secure a copy of the document have been made, including making
inquiry with the payee. If the documents are available, but contain a
confidentiality or nondisclosure provision, then the transferee shall summarize
in the petition the payments due and owing to the payee, and, if requested by
the court, shall provide copies of the documents to the court at a scheduled
hearing. (Not applicable.)
(I) Proof of
service showing compliance with the notification requirements of this section.
(Filed
12/20/24.)
(J) Notification
that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond
to
the transferee's
petition, either in person or by counsel, by submitting written comments to the
court or by
participating in the hearing. (See Notice of Hearing, p. 2:7-9.)
(K) Notification
of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which
and
the time by which
written responses to the petition must be filed, which may not be less than 15
days after service
of the transferee’s notice, in order to be considered by the court. (See Notice
of
Hearing, p. 2:10-13.)
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Based on the
foregoing, the Petition is GRANTED.
 
Petitioner to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   January 16,
2025                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


