 Case Number:  21STCV21603    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  28 On  November 7, 2023, Defendant DirectTV, LLC (“DirectTV”) produced Daniel  Hernandez (“Hernandez”) for deposition as its person most knowledgeable. Counsel  for Plaintiff Henry Lopez (“Plaintiff”) counsel terminated the deposition,  asserting that Hernandez lacked the knowledge required of a person most  knowledgeable.  Plaintiff  now asks the Court to compel DirectTV to produce its person most knowledgeable  for deposition.  In response, DirectTV  argues, among other things, that Plaintiff did not sufficiently meet and confer  before filing the motion.  Plaintiff  has submitted a declaration from his counsel stating that he met and conferred with  DirectTV’s counsel about bringing this motion during Hernandez’s deposition.  (Yenikomshuya Dec. ¶ 11 [“During Mr.  Hernandez's deposition, Plaintiffs' counsel and counsel for DIRECTV conferred  about bringing this motion as Mr. Hernandez was not qualified as a PMK, nor did  he seek out reasonably available information to prepare for his deposition to  testify based upon information [t]hat was known or reasonably available to Mr.  Hernandez” (citing Deposition of Daniel Hernandez pp. 22:22-23:25; 24:1-19;  49:20-50:12)].)  At  the deposition, Hernandez stated he did not know the answers to several of  Plaintiff’s counsel’s questions.   Plaintiff’s counsel asked DirectTV’s counsel why Hernandez did not have  this information.  (Exh. 8, pp. 22-23.)  Plaintiff’s counsel stated:  “I'm just going to keep asking the questions,  Heidi, because I'm going to have to bring this up with the Court.”  (Exh. 8, p. 24.)  Plaintiff’s  counsel later terminated the deposition:  “[PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL]: All right. I think I'm going  to stop asking questions. I'm going to bring it up with the Court. I don't  think he's qualified as a person most knowledgeable. He didn't review any of  the invoices, to no fault of his. Mr. Hernandez isn't at fault for this.  [¶] But I'm going to bring it up with the  Court and see what they say.  “[DIRECTTV’S COUNSEL]: Sure, that's fine. That's fine.  Whatever you want. Let me just go on the record. We're still on the record;  right? I'm fine if you want to go off -- go off. This is your one opportunity  to take his deposition. I disagree with your position. But be that as it may,  we can be done. Thank you, Matt.  “[PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL]: Sure. Thank you.”  (Exh. 8, pp. 49-50.)  “A  meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a  reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue  presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2016.040.)  Plaintiff’s counsel’s  declaration and the attached deposition testimony do not show a reasonable and  good faith effort at an informal resolution of the issue of obtaining testimony  from DirectTV’s person most qualified.   Therefore, the Court denies the motion.   (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.450, subd. (b)(2) & 2025.480, subd.  (b) [requiring meet and confer declaration under Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040].)  The  Court denies Plaintiff’s motion without prejudice.  The parties should meet and confer and attempt to resolve this issue informally in a way that gives Plaintiff an opportunity to obtain the discoverable information which Hernandez could not provide at his deposition.  If Plaintiff can show that he has not been given an opportunity to obtain this information despite a good faith effort to meet and confer to resolve the issue, then Plaintiff may file a new motion.  Moving  party is to give notice.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.