 Case Number:  22STCV22080    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  July 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes (“Plaintiff”) and Eileen  Reyes filed this action against Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc LSE, Ivan  Rodriguez, and Does 1-50 for negligence and negligence per se.  On  September 8, 2022, Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc. (erroneously sued and  served as Milestone Haulers Inc LSE) and Rodriguez (“Defendants”)  filed an answer.  On  October 5, 2022, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Eileen Reyes with prejudice at  Plaintiffs’ request.  On  November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order quashing Defendants' subpoena  for production of records issued to Infinity Insurance Company ("Infinity") and for sanctions,  to be heard on January 16, 2024.  On  January 2, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.  On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing on the motion to March 22, 2024.  Trial  is currently scheduled for May 6, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiff  asks the Court to quash Defendants’ subpoena for records served on Infinity and to impose monetary  sanctions on Defendants.  Defendants  ask the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides:  "(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a  witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue  therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably  made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion  after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order  quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it  upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective  orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate  to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including  unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  "(b) The following persons may make a motion pursuant  to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer described in  Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A person whose  personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section  1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an underlying action  involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)            Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g),  provides in part:  “(g)  Any  consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is  a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,  prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash  or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall  be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production.  The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate  the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the  deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for  improper release of records.  * * *   “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to  produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought  by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action is  pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . .  .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,  subd. (g).)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides:  “(a) Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making  an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under  Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the  reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including  reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements  of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,  subd. (a).)  When  a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy,  limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33  Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and financial  matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the litigant’s  right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to maintain reasonable  privacy — in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Ibid.)  DISCUSSION  A.   Complaint  The  complaint alleges that on April 1, 2022, Plaintiff was driving his vehicle at  or near the intersection of Washington Boulevard and Telegraph Road in Los  Angeles County when Defendants negligently drove, operated, controlled,  maintained and/or entrusted their truck, causing a collision that injured  Plaintiff.  B.   Subpoena  On  November 14, 2023, Defendants issued a subpoena to Infinity requesting the following records:  “ANY AND ALL INSURANCE RECORDS, INCLUDING BUT NOT  LIMITED TO REPORTS, CORRESPONDENCE AND MEMORANDA REGARDING JOSE DENNIS CALLEJA  REYES. DOB: October 12, 1962, SS#: UNKNOWN, CLAIM #: 22123622769, DOI: 6/29/22,  2016 Mercedes 350, VIN: WDDHFSKB4GB271774.”  C.   Legal issues  1.    Attorney-client privilege  Plaintiff  asserts the subpoena violates the attorney-client privilege because information  in an insurance company’s claims file is subject to the privilege.  Plaintiff relies on the rule that “communications  made by an insured to his ‘ “liability insurance company, concerning an event  which may be made the basis of a claim against him covered by the policy, is a privileged  communication, as being between attorney and client, if the policy requires the  company to defend him through its attorney, and the communication is intended  for the information or assistance of the attorney in so defending him.” ’ ”  (Scripps  Health v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 535 (Scripps),  quoting Travelers Ins. Companies v. Superior Court (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d  436, 448-449.)  “[T]he  party claiming the attorney-client privilege as a bar to disclosure has the  burden of showing that the communication sought to be suppressed falls within  the parameters of the privilege.” (Scripps Health v. Superior Court  (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533 (Scripps); accord, Soltani-Rastegar  v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 424, 426 (Soltani-Rastegar).)     Plaintiff  has not carried this burden.  He has not presented evidence that the subpoenaed materials include any communications by  Plaintiff to Infinity that were intended for the information  or assistance of the attorney whom Infinity would provide to defend Plaintiff  from a potential claim against him.  (Cf.  Scripps, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at p. 535 [“Here, undisputed evidence  revealed that Scripps’s corporate in-house counsel declared that the occurrence  reports are confidential records prepared by Scripps employees under its risk  management plan . . . and pursuant to the directive of its legal department”]; Soltani-Rastegar,  supra, 208 Cal.App.3d at p. 426 [“In opposing the discovery request,  petitioners submitted declarations explaining that their statements were made  in confidence to CSAA agents ‘for the sole purpose of defending’ them against  claims brought by those involved in the accident”].)  2.    Work product protection  Plaintiff  also argues the subpoena violates the attorney work product doctrine, but he  provides no substantive discussion or authority on this point and the Court  considers the argument waived.  3.    Privacy and overbreadth  “  ‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of  one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”  must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not  be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their  private associational affiliations and activities.’  [Citation.]   Therefore, . . . an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights  encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and  essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court  (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy  interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial.  Thus courts must balance the right of civil  litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons  subject to discovery”].)  “Even  when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues  of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be  a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the  fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be  narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the  least intrusive manner. [Citation.]”  (Davis  v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.)  Plaintiff  argues the subpoena for "[a]ny and all insurance records, including but  not limited to reports, correspondence and memoranda regarding [Plaintiff],” is  so overbroad and all-encompassing it seeks private and documents which would  not be related to any litigation.”   According to Plaintiff, the subpoena is not limited in time or scope.  However,  as Defendants observe, “the information requested [in the subpoena] is tailored  to address the subject incident . . . .”   (Opposition p. 5.)  The subpoena  specifies that it is seeking information about a June 29, 2022 incident involving Plaintiff (claim number 22123622769).  The  Court has weighed the need for this limited discovery against Plaintiff’s  privacy rights and concludes that the subpoena is not overbroad and does not  violate Plaintiff’s privacy rights.  4.    Notice under Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3,  subdivision (g)  Plaintiff contends that Defendant did not provide proper notice to  Plaintiff that his personal records were being sought under Code of Civil Procedure  section 1985.3, subdivision (g), because Defendant sent the notice to Plaintiff’s  counsel’s former address.  Defendants  respond that Plaintiff’s counsel ultimately received notice of the subpoena and  met and conferred about the subpoena with Defendants’ counsel.   Plaintiff  has not shown that Defendants’ service of the subpoena on Plaintiff’s counsel’s  former address affected his ability to respond to the subpoena.  On these facts, service of the subpoena on Plaintiff's counsel's former address did not invalidate the subpoena.  5.    Insurance Code  Plaintiff  asserts: “Insurance company files regarding an insured or a claimant are  protected by the Insurance Information and Privacy Protection Act. (See  California Insurance Code section 791.01 et seq.) Moreover, under California  Insurance Code section 791.13, disclosure of any personal or privileged  information gathered or received in connection with an insurance transaction is  restricted.”  Plaintiff does not  elaborate on this argument.  Insurance Code  section 791.13 provides:  “An insurance institution, agent, or insurance-support  organization shall not disclose any personal or privileged information about an  individual collected or received in connection with an insurance transaction  unless the disclosure is:  * * *   “(g) Otherwise permitted or required by law.  “(h) In response to a facially valid administrative or  judicial order, including a search warrant or subpoena.”  (Ins. Code, § 791.13, subds.  (g), (h).)  Here, Defendants issued a facially valid subpoena, authorizing the disclosure. The Court denies the motion. CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes’s motion to quash the subpoena served by Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc. and Ivan Rodriguez on Infinity  Insurance Company.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.