 Case Number:  24SMCV02050    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  I This is an application for a TRO and a OSC re: Preliminary
Injunction.  Plaintiff alleges that it
bought defendants’ business on June 6, 2023, and paid over $1 million for
it.  As part of the transaction,
plaintiff obtained a 5 year non-compete agreement from the sellers.  Although non-compete contracts are not
permitted as between an employer and employee, they are permitted when they are
reasonable and part and parcel of the sale of a business.  Generally speaking, the business involves
social media promotion applications. 
That included a website, Plixi. 
According to plaintiff, shortly after the deal closed, plaintiff
discovered a competing website, Upgrow. 
Plaintiff did not initially know that Upgrow was tied to defendants, but
in February 2024, plaintiff claims that it learned that a company called
Sequoia was responsible for the merchant account for Upgrow.  That evidence comes from Mr. Tran, who
declares that defendant approached him to set up the merchant account and sent
him documents that showed a “dba” of Sequoia as Upgrow.  Plaintiff claims that defendant is Sequoia’s
agent and contact person and that defendants and Sequoia share the same
physical address.  Upgrow not only
allegedly competes with Plixi, but has the same catchphrase.  Plaintiff sent defendants a cease and desist
letter, but plaintiff states that the letter was ignored.  Plaintiff filed suit.  After suit was filed, plaintiff learned of
another website similar to Plixi, Keesy. 

 
Plaintiff states that both Upgrow and Keesy are competitors
and have harmed Plixi’s business.  (Of
course, to the extent that these entities have nothing to do with defendants,
the fact that plaintiff is harmed by competition is not a tort or contract
breach.  It is only if defendants, in
violation of the non-compete agreement, are affiliated with Upgrow or Keesy
that there is a problem.)  Finally,
plaintiff claims that it believes that Upgrow is about to be sold because there
is an indication that the domain name is for sale on GoDaddy.com.  Plaintiff asserts that competition from
Upgrow and others have eaten into Plixi’s business and have increased expenses.
 
Plaintiff seeks a TRO and an OSC re: Preliminary Injunction
to bar defendants from further violation of the non-compete, specifically
directing them to stop undertaking any activity that competes with or aids the
business they sold to plaintiff, including the sale of any competing enterprise
or aiding it in any way.
 
In opposition, defendant contends that he has no ownership
or financial interest, direct or indirect, in Upgrow or Keesy.  Upgrow, he states, was started by a former
person associated with Plixi, Sarkar (who is not a party to the non-compete
agreement).  After the sale, Sarkar had a
consulting agreement with plaintiff, but when the agreement expires, Sarkar
decided to start his own company, Upgrow. 
Defendant admits that Sarkar did contact him and asked for help to set
up the merchant account because Sarkar lives in Bangladesh and the account has
to be set up by a US company.  Defendant
states that he agreed to set up the merchant account as a favor, but he has
received no compensation for it or in any other way for anything relating to
Upgrow.
 
In considering injunctive relief, the court looks to a
sliding two-prong test: (1) the likelihood of plaintiff’s success on the
merits; and (2) the balance of hardships. 
The stronger the showing on one prong, the less of a showing is needed
on the other.  The court also looks to
see if the alleged harm to the plaintiff is irreparable.  Where the harm is only monetary and it is
quantifiable, and if the defendant can stand in damages, then injunctive relief
is unlikely, especially where what is being sought is specific performance
under a contract.  And finally the court
looks to whether issuing the injunctive relief will maintain or alter the
status quo.  The goal of pre-trial injunctive
relief is to keep the parties where they were before litigation began to the
extent possible.  Therefore, an
injunction that maintains the status quo is more likely to be entered than one
that changes the status quo.  This factor
takes on greater importance at the TRO stage, where the principal goal is to
freeze everything until the court can obtain full briefing and properly
consider the matter.
 
The court will likely DENY the TRO.  First, as the defense points out, it is hard
to understand why plaintiff waited four months to bring this motion—and that is
four months after the cease and desist letter. 
If this were an emergency, it would have been brought sooner.  Second, the court is not at all sure that the
harm is irreparable.  Third, the court is
not sure that this is causing any harm at all, let alone the kind that must be
rectified by a TRO.  There is a lot of
competition in this field, apparently, and Upgrow is only one competing
entity.  Fourth, the court would think
that if there is harm, it can be rectified in damages.  That is especially so in that the assistance given
here was not of a technical or proprietary sense—it was more mundane.  Indeed, the court doubts that a non-compete
agreement could validly extend to providing aid that is not technical or
competitive in nature, at least where there is no public-facing association
between the person signing the non-compete and the other entity.  Fifth, the court has no confidence that
Upgrow is actually being sold or that any of the proceeds would go to
defendant.
 
Were the court to get past all of those issues, the court
would still have concerns and questions. 
First, it appears that defendant agrees that he is associated with
Sequoia, but he asserts that other than setting up the merchant account,
Sequoia does nothing—specifically it provides Upgrow no technical assistance or
business assistance.  The court needs to
know if that is the case.  Second,
defendant says that all the money received in the merchant account has gone to
pay Upgrow’s bills or to Upgrow’s owners, but none to defendant.  The court needs to know if plaintiff has any
evidence disputing that.  Third,
defendant contends that Plixi’s problems stem from its own business practices
or the fact that there are lots of competitors out there.  The court needs to better understand how
Upgrow ties directly to the alleged harm. 
Fourth, the court needs to understand why the harm is irreparable.  Fifth, the opposition states that if this
injunction issues, he will be in contempt of court.  The court does not understand why that
is.  Sixth, the court needs to better
understand whether the GoDaddy is the only evidence that Upgrow is for
sale.  
 
In short, there is an insufficient showing for a TRO.  Nor will the court issue an OSC.  Plaintiff needs to make a greater showing to
get a PI, so a new motion would be the better course.  
 