  Case Number:  23SMCV05097    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to tax costs.  The matter was here before and continued so
that the court could determine how the dismissal, which the court entered, was
served on the defense.  The court has
looked into how the court served things. 
The court understands that plaintiff filed a request for dismissal.  The filing was not electronic, but rather was
delivered to the clerk’s office.  When
that happens, the court will process the request and grant it or deny it.  Here, it was granted the next day.  The court will then typically mail the order,
but only to the person filing the request for dismissal—not to both
parties.  The court assumes that the
party seeking the dismissal will let the other side know.  Although there is no proof of service in the
file here showing how the court served the order dismissing the case, that is
at least typically how it is done.  And
in any event, there is no evidence showing when defendant got notice that a
dismissal had been entered.  The time for
defendant to file the cost bill starts to run from the date defendant received
notice of the dismissal.  There is no
evidence here in the record as to when that was, and typically the court would
not have provided it.  Given that, the
court cannot say that the cost memorandum is out of time.
 
Turning, then, quickly to the merits, the court notes that
the only item on the cost memorandum is the first appearance fee.  Plaintiff suggests that she was going to
dismiss the case and had informed the defense of that decision.  According to plaintiff, the day after she
said she was going to dismiss, defendant filed a request for an automatic
extension of time and incurred the first appearance fee.  Plaintiff did in fact dismiss, but the cost
was still incurred.  Defendant disputes
that he was told that plaintiff was going to dismiss, and the email exchange
between the parties did not so state. 
That does not mean that plaintiff is not being truthful, and the court
is making no such finding.  But it does
mean that the written record does not establish conclusively that defendant was
relieved of the need to file an appearance.
 
In any event, the fact remains that defendant did incur the
cost.  The court notes that a cost
recovery does not go into a party’s pocket like a fee might.  The cost was incurred and paid to the
County.  Had defendant not appeared, the
cost would not have been paid. 
Recovering the cost does not net the defendant money nor does it net
counsel money.  The court can see no
advantage to the defense by incurring the fee unnecessarily and then recovering
that fee and no more.
 
Given that, and given that the memorandum seems to have been
timely, the motion to tax costs or strike them is DENIED.