 Case Number:  23SMCV01693    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Webb v. Pepperdine
University
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01693
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses
HEARING DATE:   10/11/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is broad.
“[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if the
matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) Section 2017.020(a) vests the Court with authority to
limit the scope of discovery if the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of the
discovery sought “clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  CCP § 2019.030 directs the Court to consider
the needs of the case, amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues
at stake in the litigation, and to consider whether the discovery being sought
is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable by a more
convenient or less expensive or less burdensome way, when deciding whether to
restrict the frequency of extent of use of an authorized discovery method.
 
            CCP section 2030.220(a) requires
that “[e]ach answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to CCP section 2030.300, a party may move to compel further
responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s answer is “evasive or
incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of justifying the objections
to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962)
58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
 
PROCEDURAL ISSUES
 
Meet and Confer
                        
The moving party must demonstrate a “reasonable and
good faith attempt” at an informal resolution of each issue presented. (CCP §§
2016.040, 2030.300.) Plaintiff sent an email to defense counsel requesting that
the parties meet and confer regarding Special Interrogatories (“SROG”) sets 1-3.
(Webb Decl., Ex. F-G.) Defendant replied that it agreed to meeting and
conferring regarding those sets. (Id., Ex. H.) Plaintiff apparently did not
follow up with this email, or otherwise address the issues presented in this
motion in the meet and confer emails. (Id.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff thus
failed to meet and confer on the issues prior to filing the instant motion. Indeed,
Plaintiff did not inform Pepperdine of any particular issue with the Set 2
responses until the Motion was filed. Typically, the Court would order that the
parties meet and confer on the issues. However, the meet and confer efforts on
the record concerning the other discovery issues demonstrate that further meet
and confer efforts will not be fruitful. Thus, the Court will not require further
meet and confer efforts on this motion.
 
 
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff Breanna C. Webb moves to
compel Defendant Pepperdine University to produce further responses pursuant to
Plaintiff's propounded Special Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 1-8.
Pepperdine submitted objection-only responses, and therefore has the burden to
show that the objections are meritorious. 
 
Pepperdine objects that Set 2 was
expressly directed to a non-party, Tim Perrin. SROG set 2 is specifically
“directed towards Defendant employee Tim Perrin”. Further, set 2 requests that Defendant
Pepperdine “HAVE TIM PERRIN PROVIDE RESPONSES TO THE FOLLOWING INTERROGATORIES.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.210 requires “[t]he party to whom
interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath
separately to each interrogatory . . ..” Plaintiff thus could not demand
Pepperdine to have Tim Perrin, a nonparty, respond to interrogatories.
Defendant therefore did not have to respond to set 2.  Accordingly, the motion to compel further is
DENIED.
 
Sanctions are mandatory. The Court must
sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response, “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (See, e.g., CCP, § 2030.300(d).) Plaintiff made this
motion despite directing the discovery to the incorrect party. Plaintiff
therefore did not act with substantial justification in making this motion. Defendant
presents that it incurred fees of $3,015.00 in connection with opposing the
instant motion. (Onyemaobim Decl., ¶12 [9 hours at $335/hr.].) In
light of the relative simplicity of the issues presented by the motion, a
reasonable sanction in this instance would be $2,010.00. Accordingly, the
request for sanctions is granted in the reduced total amount of $2,010.00.
 
The request for terminating
sanctions in response to this motion is inappropriate. Defendant does not come
close to demonstrating that Plaintiff’s discovery misconduct (incorrectly
addressing a set of discovery and failing to fully meet and confer on the
issues) rises to the extreme level required for terminating sanctions. (R.S.
Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.)