  Case Number:  21STCV34357    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  B rick held v.
hb parkco construction, inc. 
 
MOTION: Motion for summary judgment
 
Date of Hearing: 09/04/2024 
                                    Trial Date: 02/03/2025           
Department: B                                                            Case
No.: 21STCV34357       
 
Moving Party:             Defendant HB Parkco Construction Inc.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Rick Held
 

 

BACKGROUND
            
Factual and Procedural
Background
            Rick
Held (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against HB Parkco Construction, Inc.
(Defendant) on September 17, 2021 after Plaintiff was injured while working as
an employee of a sub-contractor at a construction site. The Complaint was
followed by the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on October 25, 2021.
The FAC alleges negligence and premises liability. 
            
            The
FAC alleges on September 27, 2019, Plaintiff was working at the construction
site located at 5411 Etiwanda Avenue, Tarzana, California (Job Site) when after
walking along the top of a dirt hill, dirt came loose, and Plaintiff fell to
the bottom of the hill into rebar sustaining injuries.      
 
            The
motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment (the
Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion; no reply was filed.         
 
Request for Judicial Notice
            Concurrently
filed with their moving papers, Defendant files a request for judicial notice
(RJN) requesting the Court judicially recognize (1) Plaintiff’s FAC, and (2)
Plaintiff’s DOE Amendment substituting Defendant for Doe 1 on September 7,
2022. Pursuant to Evid. Code §452(d), the RJN is granted.   
 
                                                                                                      
Tentative Ruling
             HB Parkco Construction Inc.’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“The function of the pleadings in a
motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function
of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable
issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the defendant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
            
Analysis
            The parties’ primary contentions surround
the applicability of the Privette doctrine to the instant case. Defendant’s
primary argument in moving for summary judgment is that the Motion should be
granted because the Privette doctrine bars Plaintiff’s claims. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Privette doctrine does not apply
because one of the exceptions defined in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198 (Hooker) allows for
liability against the general contractor – here Defendant. Hooker holds
that if the hirer retained control over the manner and means of the work, the
hirer would still be liable for Plaintiff’s injury. The Court agrees and denies
the Motion. 
 
            Privette’s Application to the
Case at Bar
            The
Privette doctrine stems from the California Supreme Court case Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (Privette). In
that case an independent contractor’s employee was injured while employed at
the work site. The injured employee sued the owner of the premises. The trial
court and Court of Appeal ruled in the injured employee’s favor. However, the
California Supreme Court reversed, holding there is no basis for liability for
the person who hired the contractor but did not cause the injuries. Moreover, Privette
explained that this holding considers that worker’s compensation should protect
the property owner, cover the injuries sustained by the injured employee, and
disallowing liability to the property owner prevents an “unwarranted windfall”
for the injured employee. (Privette, supra, at 697-701.) Defendant also
notes exceptions to the Privette doctrine, where liability would be
permitted. Hooker notes that for a general contractor to be liable for
injuries to an employee of a sub-contractor the general contractor must have
retained control over the manner and means of the work, and such control must
have contributed to the occurrence of the incident and injury. (Hooker,
supra, at 210.) 
 
            Defendant relies almost exclusively
on Privette arguing that as the primary contractor on the project, they
were responsible for hiring the sub-contractor but retained no control over the
sub-contractor’s work. Plaintiff contends this is where there is a disputed
material fact. Plaintiff provides the deposition of Joseph Gonzales (Gonzales),
an employee of Defendant who worked as the superintendent of safety at the Job
Site where Plaintiff was injured. In the deposition Gonzales describes their
job duties encompassing “scheduling concrete pours, scheduling the concrete;
scheduling when the waterproofer comes in, how they’re going to load the job,
where are they going to load it…” in addition to making sure employees have the
necessary tools, and that sub-contractors are showing up on time. (Declaration
of Annie C. Lu, Exh. 1, pgs. 43-44.) Additionally, Gonzales noted that keeping
employees on the Job Site safe was also part of his responsibility, including
making sure there were safe walking areas and conducting a weekly inspection or
“safety walk”. (Id. at pg. 13 and 43-44.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff has created a
triable issue of material fact as to whether the control exercised by Gonzales
as the superintendent of safety at the Job Site was sufficient. As
aforementioned, Gonzales’ job duties at the site were extensive, Gonzales was
responsible for scheduling when certain tasks could be done, making sure the
proper tools were available to employees, and was responsible for assuring the
Job Site was safe for employees. Plaintiff analogizes the case at bar to Strouse
v. Webcor Construction, L.P. (2019) 34 Cal.App. 5th 703 where
the Court of Appeal held that the defendant general contractor retained control
of the safety of the job site because of daily inspections and several general
contractor employees at the job site. (Strouse, supra, at 708-709.) The
Court finds the analogy appropriate as not only was Gonzales responsible for
several duties on the site including safety, but another of defendant’s
employees – Jeff Kiesel – would have also been responsible for a safety walk as
well. Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of material fact and summary
judgment is inappropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
            Accordingly, HB Parkco
Construction Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 