  Case Number:  21PSCV00970    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION
REGARDING WHETHER GLOBALINKS CORP. CAN PAY CARRIEN HE’S ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS
is DENIED because neither the Handbook, Corporation’s Code, nor
Shareholder’s Agreement provides for indemnification under the circumstances of
the case. 
 
Background[1]
 
This case
arises from a business dispute between Carrien Qian He (“Carrien”) and Jay Min
Chen (“Jay”).
 
On November
23, 2021, Chen filed the action against Carrien, NINGYUAN HE, and Golden
Globalinks Corp (the “Corporation” which is named as a nominal defendant) for: 1)     Fraud 2)     Breach Of Fiduciary Duty 3)     Removal Of Dishonest And Fraudulent
Director And Officer 4)     Appointment Of Provisional Director 5)     Accounting 6)     Violation Of Corp. Code 1600, Et Seq.;
and  7)     Violation Of Penal Code 496(C).
 
On January
25, 2024, the court held its hearing on Jay’s Chen's Ex Parte Notice and
Application for (1) Temporary Restraining Order (2) Order to Show Cause Re:
Preliminary Injunction (3) Ex Parte Order Granting Indemnification for the
Court Appointed Third Director and Ordering a Director's Vote. The minute order
provides, in relevant part, the following: “Payment for Counsel William
Cumming's Fees are no longer to be satisfied by the Corporation unless Ordered
by the Court. The issue of the payment of Attorney's Fees by the Corporation is
to be addressed by way of a Formal Motion.” 
 
On February
6, 2024, Jay filed a ‘Brief For Preliminary Injunction’ (“Jay’s Motion”) wherein
he sought to enjoin Carrien from using company funds to pay her legal fees. 
 
On February
15, 2024, Carrien filed an ‘Opposition To Jay Chen’s Motion To Preclude Golden
Globalinks Corp. From Paying Defense Fees And Declarations Of Carrien Qian He
And William R. Cumming.’
 
On February
21, 2024, Jay filed a ‘Reply In Support Of Preliminary Injunction Against
Defendant Carrien He.’
 
On March 29,
2024, the Corporation filed an ‘ASSOCIATION OF COUNSEL’ indicating that the
Corporation “associates Bryan Zuetel of the law firm ZUETEL LAW GROUP, APLC as
counsel in the above entitled matter.”
 
On April 5, 2024, Carrien, for the Corporation,
filed a ‘Substitution of Attorney’ indicating that the Corporation is now
self-represented. 
 
On April 12,
2024, the court held its hearing re: ‘Case Management Conference; Hearing on Ex
Parte Application .; Hearing on Ex Parte Application for (1) OSC re Contempt
(2) OSC re Monetary, Issue and evidentiary sanctions against defendant Carrie
He; Hearing on Motion - Other Property; Status Conference Re: Board of
Director's Meeting; Order to Show Cause Re: Why the Court Should Not Modify the
Existing Preliminary Injunction/Why the Court Should not Allow Jay Min Chen
Access; Hearing on Ex Parte Application’ which provides in relevant part that “The
Ex Parte Application Temprorary restraining order; order to OSC and order
granting indemnification for the court appointed third direction and ordering a
director's vote filed by Jay Min Chen on is Denied…The issue of payment of
Attorney's Fees by the Corporation is to be addressed by way of a Formal Motion
on May 13, 2024.” (emphasis added.)
 
On May 10,
2024, Carrien filed a ‘MOTION REGARDING WHETHER GLOBALINKS CORP. CAN PAY
CARRIEN HE’S ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS AND DECLARATION OF WILLIAM R. CUMMING.’
 
On June 20, 2024, Jay filed an Opposition.
 
On June 26, 2024, Carrien filed a reply.
 
Discussion
 
At the outset, and as noted by Jay, no formal motion has been filed.
Instead, the motion, which is 338 pages, attaches numerous exhibits. In Reply,
Carrien maintains that the “The sole reason for filing the notice was to place
the motion back on calendar and the notice attached the initial motion,
opposition, and reply brief.” (Reply p. 2.) With that, the court presumes
Carrien is relying upon her opposition filed to Jay’s Motion. To the
extent that there is any confusion as to the filing(s) the court is relying
upon, that is an effect of Plaintiff not providing a formal motion. 
 
Turning to the merits, Carrien argues that the she can act
unilaterally to pay her defense fees and identifies three separate grounds: the
Company’s handbook, the Corporations Code, and a shareholder agreement between
the parties. For reasons
to be discussed below, none give Carrien the authority to continue to withdraw
funds for legal fees. 
 
1.    
The
Handbook[2]
 
First and
foremost, Carrien misrepresents that language of the Handbook. Carrien states that the language
states, “If company’s CEO or GM and upper management personally get sued
because of company’s related issue; company WILL cover the legal fees.”
(Opp. to Jay’s Motion, p. 7, emphasis and capitalization added.) Not so. The
Handbook’s provision instead provides that “If company’s CEO or GM and upper management personally
get sued because of company’s related issue, company WOULD cover the
legal fees.” (Opp. to Jay’s Motion, Ex. 3, p. 74 of 192 of PDF, emphasis
and capitalization added). Needless to say that there is a drastic distinction
between will (mandatory) and would (discretionary). 
 
Second, even assuming that the Handbook mandates
that the company pay legal fees, the Handbook does not define “company’s
related issue.” And when
read in context with the purpose of the Handbook, the provision
fails to support Carrien’s position. The Handbook is “presented as a matter
of information and has been prepared to inform employees about the
Company’s philosophy, employment practices, policies, and the benefits provided
to our valued employees, as well as the conduct expected from them.” (Opp. p.
6, see also Ex. 3, p. 33 of 192 of PDF, emphasis added.) Employees, as
defined by the Handbook, are at-will employees. (See p. 36 of 192 of PDF
[“The employment relationship between the Company and employees is at-will.”].)
As further evidence that the Handbook was not created for upper
management individuals, the Handbook discusses aspects of work irrelevant to
someone in upper management. For example, the Handbook states: 
 
-       
“Insubordination
or refusing to follow instructions from a supervisor or manager; refusal or
unwillingness to accept a job assignment or to perform job requirements” (this
would not apply to Carrien as she does not take instructions from a supervisor
or manager); 
-       
pay
periods (no indication that Carrien is paid biweekly); 
-       
timekeeping
(no indication that Carrien must “clock in” and “clock out” of work); 
-       
performance
evaluation (no indication that Carrien receives a quarterly review)
 
Additionally, the ‘legal issues’ provision itself is
found on a page entitled ‘employment separation.’ Again, when read in context,
the provision appears to apply when the CEO, MG, or upper management is sued
by an employee for seemingly labor code violations or other related claims.

 
Lastly, and
notably, the Handbook itself provides that it “is not intended to be a
book of rules and regulations or a contract.” (p. 33 of 192 of PDF.) Instead, the Handbook merely sets
forth “some important guidelines.” (p. 33 of 192 of PDF.) Guidelines are not
corporate bylaws.  
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues that the Handbook was
used to pay for defense costs for two Company managers and Carrien in a
separate lawsuit involving Jay (Opp. p. 7), the relevancy of that argument is
unclear.
 
Thus, absent binding corporate bylaws that apply
to upper management that would provide for the mandatory indemnification
when a member of upper management is sued by another corporate officer
for her purported mismanagement of corporate funds, the Handbook does not
provide for the payment of Carrien’s attorney fees. 
 
2.    
Corporations Code
 
Carrien cites to Corporations Code section 317. 
 
This statute addresses a corporation’s power to indemnity
its officers. Indemnification is permissible when “any person who was or is a party … to any proceeding
… by reason of the fact that the person is or was an agent of the corporation,
against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts actually and
reasonably incurred in connection with the proceeding …” (Corps. Code §
317, subd. (b).)[3] “The policy considerations behind [the
statute] are that persons who serve the
corporation in good faith should, in the absence of certain conduct (fraud,
breach of fiduciary duties, etc.) be free from liability for corporate acts;
indemnification encourages capable persons to perform their duties, secure in
the knowledge that expenses incurred by them despite their honesty and
integrity will be borne by the corporation.” (Plate v. Sun-Diamond Growers (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 1115, 1122-1123.) In determining whether the “agent has
met the applicable standard of conduct” (i.e., good
faith), that is a question of fact to be determined in one of the four
following ways:
(1) A
majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who are not parties to such
proceeding.
(2) If
such a quorum of directors is not obtainable, by independent legal counsel in a
written opinion.
(3)
Approval of the shareholders (Section 153), with the shares owned by the person to be indemnified not being
entitled to vote thereon.
(4) The
court in which the proceeding is or was pending upon application made by the
corporation or the agent or the attorney or other person rendering services in
connection with the defense, whether or not the application by the agent,
attorney or other person is opposed by the corporation. (Corp. Code § 317,
subd. (e).) 
Here, sections (1) through (3) are
inapplicable. For example, there is no indication that the board has voted
on the issue. (See e.g., 2/29/24 minute order [“[D]ue to medical issues Mr. Fred Olama
was unable to attend the Board of Director's meeting and thus were unable to
vote on the issues re: an Attorney for the Corporate Entity and the Certified
Public Accountant (CPA).”].) Nor is a majority
vote not possible because Jay is a 48% shareholder and Carrien, as person to be
indemnified, cannot vote. (Opp. p. 10.) Nor has there been a vote by
independent counsel, namely as there is currently no Company attorney. That only leaves the
determination to be made by this court. (See also Opp. p. 11, citing to Fed-Mart
Corp. v. Pell Enterprises, Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 215.)[4] 
 
Here,
this court does not find that Carrien has met the required standard for
subdivision (b) of acting in “good faith and in a manner such person reasonably
believed to be in the best interests of the corporation.” 
 
As explained in Jay’s Motion and not otherwise
addressed/disputed in Opposition, on June 30, 2021, the bank records show that
the company had $4.1 million dollars balance in the bank, but as of January 15,
2024, the company only has $1.3 million dollars left. Over three million
dollars disappeared without any supporting documents and explanation.[5]
(Motion p. 4 of 47 of PDF.) Some of the money apparently is going to Carrien’s
Father, NingYuan He. Though he has not received any training for any Franchise
restaurant operation, though he has had no experience in operating any
restaurant in the US, and though he does not appear in the restaurant, the
father is receiving large sums of money. Specifically, through a subpoena to
Northern Bank who provided the PPP loan to the company, Jay has discovered
from the payroll company records that the father was paid for over $18,000 for
only 80 hours of work. Moreover, Jay has found large questionable checks
and credit card statements from the company paid to Carrien’s friends
including but not limited to Joe Ho and Xin Guo Tao for questionable services
provided. (Motion p. 7, see also Chen Decl.) Furthermore, the prolonged
litigation history between the Carrien and Jay and tactics engaged by both
underscores perhaps the personal nature of the litigation, which
obviates any good faith argument that Carrien is acting in good faith to be
entitled to indemnification. (Plate,
supra, 225 Cal.App.3d at p. 1123 [“Where
personal motives, not the corporate good, are predominant in a
transaction giving rise to an action, indemnification is
not warranted.”]; see also Jay’s
Reply p. 5, citing Wilshire-Doheny Associates Ltd. v. Shapiro (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 1380, 1389.) 
 
Therefore, as Jay has made a showing of
bad faith and/or intentional wrongdoing, indemnification is prohibited. Notwithstanding,
“[o]f course, if the corporate agent is acquitted of any wrongdoing, he or she
has a right to indemnification for legal expenses incurred for his or her
defense, even though he or she was initially charged with bad faith or
intentional misconduct.” (Plate, supra, 225 Cal.App.3d at p. 1124.) 
 
3.    
Shareholders Agreement
 
Carrien maintains that the parties’
January 20, 2021 Shareholders Agreement supports indemnification. It is unclear
how Carrien doing “daily management” (Opp. p. 12) provides for indemnification.

 
Thus, as neither the articles of
incorporation nor bylaws contain language providing for indemnification, this
argument fails. (See Reply p. 3.)    
 
Conclusion
 
All in all, none of the three purported
methods of indemnification apply to the facts of this case. In further support of this determination is that Jay has not been indemnified by
the corporation in the consolidated case of Carrien Qian He Vs Jay Min
Chen, Et al. (21PSCV01076) wherein Carrien sued Jay for allegedly interfering
with business operations and creating a hostile work environment. Based on the foregoing, as there is no indication that the
withdrawn funds are being used for the performance of corporate duties and
responsibilities, the motion for attorney fees is DENIED. 
 


