  Case Number:  22CHCV00494    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51
Date: 12/6/23
Case
#22CHCV00494
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

DECEMBER 5,
2023
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Form
Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents,
Requests for
Admission, and Special Interrogatories, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22CHCV00494

 
Motions filed: 6/21/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Michael Brang (“Plaintiff”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC
(“Defendant”) 
NOTICE: ok¿¿ 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Orders compelling
Defendant to provide further responses to the following discovery requests within
ten calendar days:
·        
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 15.1 and 17.1;
·        
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, Nos. 1, 2, and 4–17;
·        
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One,
Nos. 1, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 12; and
·        
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One,
Nos. 1–4, 7, and 8.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The
motions are granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to the
subject discovery requests within 30 days. The Court imposes sanctions against
Defendant and/or its counsel in the amount of $1,200.00.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff brings this action
against Defendant under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code §
1790 et seq.) for a vehicle he purchased on 12/2/20, and for which Defendant
issued the manufacturer’s warranty. (Compl. ¶¶ 4, 8.)
 
On 7/6/22, Plaintiff filed his
complaint, alleging against Defendant the following causes of action: (1)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation
of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2(b). On 8/5/22, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 9/21/22,
Plaintiff served his first set of Form Interrogatories, Requests for Production
of Documents, Requests for Admission, and Special Interrogatories on Defendant.
(Ex. C to Decl. of Sepehr Daghighian.) On 10/25/23, Defendant served its responses
thereto. (Ex. D to Daghighian Decl.)
 
On 6/21/23, Plaintiff filed the
instant motions to compel Defendant’s further responses to his first set of
discovery requests. Defendant’s oppositions and
Plaintiff’s replies were filed on the following dates:
·        
Form Interrogatories, Set One: 
o    Defendant’s
opposition filed 8/23/23
o    Plaintiff’s
reply filed 8/31/23
·        
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One:
o    Defendant’s
opposition filed 8/29/23
o    No
reply to date
·        
Requests for Admission, Set One:
o    Defendant’s
opposition filed 8/31/23
o    No
reply to date
·        
Special Interrogatories, Set One:
o    Defendant’s
opposition filed 9/1/23
o    No
reply to date
 
On
9/6/23, this Court continued the hearings on the subject discovery motions, and
ordered the parties “to meet and further confer either telephonically or
in-person within 60-days, to resolve and/or narrow all outstanding discovery
issues. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a declaration with the Court which
confirms compliance with this order or explains why no meaningful meet and
confer occurred.” (9/6/23 Min. Order, p. 1.)
 
On
11/3/23, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration stating that no meaningful
meet and confer between the parties occurred, because “to date, I have been
unable to schedule a teleconference with counsel for Defendant to discuss the outstanding
discovery issues.” (11/3/23 Decl. of Brian T. Shippen-Murray ¶ 4.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.               
Legal Standard
 
1.     
Interrogatories
 
“The party to whom interrogatories
have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory
by any of the following: (1) An answer containing the information sought to be
discovered; (2) An exercise of the party’s option to produce writings; or (3)
An objection to the particular interrogatory.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.210,
subd. (a).)
 
“Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits. … If an interrogatory
cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. …
If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond
fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a
reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other
natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally
available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.220 [emphasis
added].)
 
A propounding party may move for an
order compelling further responses to interrogatories if any of the following
apply: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete;
(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate; or
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
 
2.     
Requests for Production of Documents
 
California law requires a
responding party to respond to each request for production of documents with
either a statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or an objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210,
subd. (a).)
 
If the response includes an
objection to the demand in part, it must also include a statement of compliance
or noncompliance as set forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).)
Additionally, the response must (1) identify the particular document that falls
within the category of the request to which the objection is being made, and
(2) expressly set forth the extent of, and specific ground for, the objection.
(Id. at subd. (b).)¿A propounding party may move for an order compelling
further response to a discovery request if it decides that “an objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(a).)¿
 
3.     
Requests for Admission
 
A responding party must respond to
each propounded request for admission with either a substantive answer or an
objection to the request. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.210.)
 
“Each answer shall: (1) Admit so
much of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in
the request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding
party; (2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue; and
(3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of
which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.” (Code
Civ Proc. § 2033.220, subd. (b).)¿“If a responding party gives lack of
information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a
request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable
inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that
the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that
party to admit the matter.” (Id. at subd. (c).) 
 
Because requests for admission are
not limited to matters within the responding party's personal knowledge, that
party has a duty to make a reasonable investigation of the facts before
answering items that are not within the party's personal knowledge. (Doe v.
Los Angeles County Dep't of Children & Family Servs. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 675, 690.)
 
A propounding party may move for an
order compelling further responses to requests for admission if any of the
following apply: “(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete; or (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290, subd. (a).)¿
 
B.                
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating,
“facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1);
2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2033.290, subd. (b)(1); 2016.040.)
 
Here, the Court previously found
the parties’ meet and confer efforts to be inadequate, and therefore ordered
the parties to further meet and confer in an effort to resolve all outstanding
discovery issues. (9/6/23 Min. Order.) As the parties failed to meet and confer
in accordance with the Court’s prior ruling, the Court will consider additional
monetary sanctions against Defendant for failing to meet and confer in good
faith.
 
C.               
Further Responses to Plaintiff’s
Discovery Requests
 
1.     
Defendant’s Objections
 
a.     
Scope/Relevance
 
Discovery is relevant if it is
admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s scope and relevance objections to the subject discovery requests
are meritless because “the information sought … will allow Plaintiff to
understand and evaluate the factual bases of support for Defendant’s denials,
qualified admissions and affirmative defenses regarding alleged nonconformities
with the Subject Vehicle, Defendant’s repair efforts, other factors (such as
Plaintiff’s own negligence or misuse) alleged to have caused problems with the
Subject Vehicle, and, generally, Defendant’s compliance, or lack thereof, with
the Song-Beverly Act.” (Pls.’ FROG Mot. 10:3–8.) “These documents seek
technical information that Plaintiff’s expert needs to provide reliable opinion
testimony regarding the nature of the defects in Plaintiff’s vehicle.” (Pls.’
RFP Mot. 8:14–16.)
 
Defendant argues in opposition that
the requests are overbroad and seek irrelevant information about Defendant’s
internal policies and procedures, and other vehicles. “This breach of warranty
case is about Plaintiff’s Corvette and repairs to that Corvette under
warranty. GM has already produced all the documents relevant to Plaintiff’s
breach of warranty claims. GM maintains its objections that documents about other
vehicles, complaints from or by other consumers, or the design of
specific component systems or parts are not relevant to Plaintiff’s
claim that GM failed to repair her [sic] Corvette within a reasonable number of
attempts, rendering Plaintiff’s Motion unwarranted.” (Def.’s Opp. to RFP Mot. at
4:16–21 [emphasis in original].) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
provided sufficient support that the further responses are relevant and
discoverable. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) To obtain civil
penalties under the Song-Beverly Act, a plaintiff must establish that the
defendant’s failure to comply was willful, which may be based on the
defendant’s knowledge of a certain defect. (Civ. Code § 1794, subd. (c).)
Information regarding vehicles other than Plaintiff’s is relevant to the
subject matter of this action as it could assist Plaintiff in proving
Defendant’s willful violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
Documents responsive to these requests may reasonably lead to the discovery of
information as to the nature and duration of the defects, Defendant’s knowledge
of the defects, and Defendant’s inability to repair the defects. While the
cases relied on by Plaintiff (i.e., Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 138; Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th
967) may not involve the exact circumstance before this Court, they are
sufficient to show that the requested information could itself be admissible or
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in this case.
 
b.     
Undue Burden
 
Plaintiff further argues that
Defendant’s undue burden objections to the subject discovery requests are
meritless. The party objecting to a discovery request on this basis bears the
burden of supplying evidence of “the quantum of work required.” (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.)
 
In opposition, Defendant observes
that Plaintiffs have propounded 81 total discovery requests, and Defendant has
already produced various requested documents in response to Plaintiffs’ first
set of RFPs. (Def.’s Opp. 1:4–2:4.) However, the Court notes that Defendant has
not supplied evidence to show the “quantum of work required” to respond in full
to Plaintiff’s discovery requests as set forth in the instant motions, nor has
Defendant stated the categories of sources of ESI that are not reasonably
accessible.
 
Moreover, the Court is unclear at
this juncture whether Defendant has produced documents responsive to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests. In the instant motions, Plaintiff contends that
Defendant failed to produce any documents. (Pl.’s SROG Mot. 5:21–24.) In
opposition, Defendant contends that it did in fact produce a number of
responsive documents. (Def.’s Opp. to FROG Mot. 2:13–15.) In reply, Plaintiff
maintains that no documents were produced. (Pl.’s Reply to FROG Mot. 2:13–15.)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
Defendant’s objections to the requests to the extent that they are unduly
burdensome or oppressive are without adequate support.  
 
c.      
Privilege
 
“If an objection is based on a
claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work
product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties
to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege
log.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).)
 
Here, Defendant objected to the
subject document requests on the bases of attorney-client and attorney work
product privileges. However, as Plaintiff observes, Defendant’s responses do
not mention any factual information supporting its claims of privilege, nor has
Defendant produced a privilege log. (Pl.’s RFP Mot. 6:16–25.) Plaintiff therefore
argues that “because Defendant has not complied with the requirement under
C.C.P. § 2031.240(c)(1) that it produce a privilege log, Defendant has cut off
Plaintiff’s ability to make a ‘determination of whether each withheld document
is or is not [in] fact privileged.’” (Id. at 6:22–24, quoting Wellpoint
Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 130.)
 
The Court notes that Defendant does
not address this issue in its opposition papers. Accordingly, the Court finds
that to the extent that Defendant intends to withhold any responsive documents based
on any privilege, Defendant is ordered to produce a privilege log.
 
d.     
Trade Secrets
 
Defendant further objected to the
subject RFPs on the basis that each request “seeks confidential, proprietary
and trade secret information in the form of GM’s internal policies and
procedures.” Evidence Code section 1060 provides that the owner of a trade
secret has a privilege to refuse to disclose the secret and to prevent others
from disclosing it, unless allowing the privilege will conceal fraud or result
in injustice. A party that is claiming the trade secret privilege has the
burden of proving the party's entitlement to that privilege. (Amgen Inc. v
California Correctional Health Care Servs. (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 716, 733.)
 
“‘Trade secret’ means information,
including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique,
or process, that: (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or potential,
from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain
economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) Is the subject of efforts
that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Civ.
Code § 3426.1, subd. (d).)
 
Here, Defendant argues that “the
documents Plaintiff seeks may relate to and contain confidential communications
between GM employees and GM’s suppliers and/or sub-suppliers concerning
technical, mechanical, and commercial issues and analyses.” (Def.’s Opp. to RFP
Mot. 7:14–16.) “Because the wholesale disclosure of GM’s internal, confidential
materials would cause GM competitive harm, GM should not be compelled to
produce any additional documents without Plaintiff having satisfied their
heightened burden to show why he needs the documents in this breach of warranty
case, which Plaintiff has not done.” (Id. at 8:6–9.) 
 
In support of its argument,
Defendant offers the sworn declaration of Huizhen Lu, a Senior
Manager/Technical Consultant of Engineering Analysis employed with Defendant,
attesting that the documents sought may include, “design specifications,
evaluations, and performance analysis relative to specifications, material
selection, cost, and quality. Such information is not generally available to
the public. GM LLC derives value from this information’s confidentiality and
would be harmed by the loss of confidentiality. Consequently, GM LLC makes
considerable effort to keep this information confidential.” (Ex. C to Decl. of Darshnik
Brar, ¶ 11.)
 
The Court notes that Defendant
appears to be amenable to a protective order, which would protect against the
disclosure of any claimed private, trade secret or confidential proprietary
information. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that production of any
documents Defendant contends contain trade secret or confidential proprietary
information shall be so designated and may be subject to a protective order.
 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
grants Plaintiff’s motions to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Plaintiff’s first set of Form Interrogatories, Requests for Production of
Documents, Requests for Admission, and Special Interrogatories. The Court notes
the parties’ arguments regarding Defendant’s verifications but declines to
reach them considering the foregoing.
 
D.               
Monetary Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction ... against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300,
subd. (d); 2033.290, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h).)¿Additionally, “the court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Here, the Court again notes that
Defendant failed to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding the present issues
as previously ordered by this Court. Therefore, in granting the instant
motions, the Court finds it reasonable to issue monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $1,200.00. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motions are granted. Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to the subject discovery requests within 30 days. The
Court imposes sanctions against Defendant and/or its counsel in the amount of $1,200.00.