 Case Number:  23CHCV00946    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-13-24
Case # 23CHCV00946,
Jay Cook-Wong, et al. vs. Bradley Spencer, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendants
Jay Cook-Wong, Danny Cook-Wong, and All Love Surrogacy, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Cross-Complainant Same Love Surrogacy, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Cross-Defendants
are requesting that the Court compel the case to arbitration and stay the
action
 
RULING: Petition
granted
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On April 3,
2023, Cross-Defendants Jay Cook-Wong and Danny Cook-Wong (the Cook-Wongs),
along with another plaintiff, filed their complaint against Cross-Complainant
Same Love Surrogacy, LLC, and Defendant Bradley Spencer. In their First Amended
Complaint, filed on April 10, 2023, they alleged causes of action for sexual
battery, assault, sexual harassment, workplace harassment, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, retaliation, conversion, trespass, invasion
of privacy, and non-payment of wages. The Cook-Wongs were shareholders in Same
Love Surrogacy.
 
After the
Cook-Wongs filed their complaint, Bradley Spencer and Same Love Surrogacy (SLS)
filed a motion to compel arbitration on May 18, 2023. They filed the motion
based on the Limited Liability Company Agreement of SLS. The Court denied this
motion on August 14, 2023. The Court found that only three of the plaintiffs’
causes of action were arbitrable based on SLS’s LLC Agreement and did not think
it prudent to arbitrate the causes of action in a piecemeal manner because of
the risk of conflicting rulings.
 
On August 29,
2023, SLS filed a cross-complaint against the Cook-Wongs and their new LLC, All
Love Surrogacy, LLL (All Love), in which SLS alleges that Cross-Defendants
misappropriated confidential and proprietary materials from SLS in order to
start a competing business. SLS alleged nine causes of against them: violation
of California Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act, Violation of
Penal Code Section 496, Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, Breach of Duty of
Loyalty, Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code Section 17200 et seq., Conversion,
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations, and Breach of Contract. SLS’s causes
of action are based on the Cook-Wongs’ business relationship with SLS and SLS’s
LLC Agreement.
 
On October 20,
2023, the Cook-Wongs and All Love (collectively Cross-Defendants) filed their
own motion to compel arbitration based on SLS’s claims in its cross-complaint.
Cross-Defendants argue that SLS’s claims would fall under the arbitration
agreement in the LLC Operating Agreement. They argue that SLS has previously
acknowledged that this arbitration agreement is enforceable by virtue of its
own attempt to use the arbitration agreement to arbitrate the Cook-Wongs’
claims against SLS. They also argue that the allegations against All Love rely
upon and are wholly intertwined with the terms of the SLS Operating Agreement.
 
Cross-Defendants
also point out in their petition that there is an arbitration in a separate case,
In Re Cook-Wong v. Spencer, JAMS Ref. No. 5220003305, in which the
Cook-Wongs’ arbitration demand is proceeding irrespective of and separately
from this lawsuit. That arbitration deals with the Cook-Wongs’ and Spencer’s
rights as related to the Operating Agreement. The arbitrator in that case
denied a claim for jurisdiction over this case.
 
SLS argues in
opposition that the Cook-Wongs are judicially estopped from seeking to force
SLS to arbitrate its cross-claims because the Cook-Wongs previously opposed
SLS’s attempt to force arbitration of the Cook-Wong’s claims. SLS also argues
that its claims do no arise out of or relate to the Operating Agreement because
it argues that its cross-claims do not seek to enforce any provision of the
Operating Agreement. SLS further argues that because All Love was a
nonsignatory to the Operating Agreement, SLS’s claims against All Love are
precluded from arbitration.
 
Cross-Defendants
argue in their reply that there is no judicial estoppel because the Cook-Wongs
have not taken inconsistent positions. They also argue that SLS’s claims rely
entirely on the Operating Agreement because the Cook-Wongs were not employees
of SLS, a position that SLS has previously held. Finally, Cross-Defendants
argue that SLS is equitably estopped from refusing to arbitrate because of
SLS’s reliance on the Operating Agreement in order to make claims against All
Love.
 
ANALYSIS
Request for
Judicial Notice: Cross-Defendants request that the Court take judicial notice of
one arbitration ruling and two court records. The Court takes judicial notice
of these documents.
 
California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by CCP § 1281.2 to compel parties
to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
CCP § 1281.2
states that: 
“The court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or  
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (CCP §
1281.2.)
 
The arbitration
provision in the Operating Agreement executed by the parties in October 2014
provides at Section 13.3: 
“In the event of any dispute, claim or
controversy between or among the parties arising out of or relating to this
Agreement or the Certificate of Formation, whether in contract, tort, equity or
otherwise, and whether relating to the meaning, interpretation, effect,
validity, performance or enforcement of this Agreement or the Certificate of
Formation, including the determination of the scope or applicability of this
agreement to arbitrate, such dispute, claim or controversy shall be resolved by
and through an arbitration . . .” 
(Nashon Decl., Ex. F, Ex. 1.)
 
A court
interprets an arbitration clause like any other contract, including
determination of the intent of the parties and ambiguities. (Gravillis v.
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 761, 772.)
“A contract must be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of
the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is
ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.) “The language of a contract is
to govern its interpretation, if the language is clear and explicit, and does
not involve an absurdity.” (Civ. Code, § 1638.) 
 
Vaughn v.
Tesla, Inc. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 208 is instructive in interpreting broad
arbitration agreements. That case reads in relevant part:
“It is well established…that when courts
say that an arbitration agreement including “relating to” is broad, it
typically is because it expands the reach of the agreement to encompass claims
rooted in the employment relationship, even if the claims do not actually arise
from the employment contract itself. As explained in Rice v. Downs
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186, 203 Cal.Rptr.3d 555, “‘It has long been the
rule in California that a broadly worded arbitration clause ... may extend to
tort claims that may arise under or from the contractual relationship. “There
is no requirement that the cause of action arising out of a contractual dispute
must be itself contractual. At most, the requirement is that the dispute must
arise out of contract.”’” (Citation.)
 
Consistent with the proposition that
“relating to” acquires meaning from the subjects being related, the phrase
normally encompasses extracontractual claims only “so long as they have their
roots in the relationship between the parties which was created by the
contract.” (Citations.)”
(Vaughn, supra, at 220-221.)
 
Here, the
language of the agreement states that it applies to any dispute between the
parties arising out of or relating to the Operating Agreement. As discussed in Vaughn,
“relating to” would include claims that have their roots in the relationship
between the parties that was created by the contract. SLS’s claims against Cross-Defendants
have their roots in the relationship that was created by the Operated
Agreement.
 
In this case,
the parties do not dispute that there is an arbitration agreement. They also do
not dispute its enforceability or its conscionability. Instead, their dispute
is based on whether the arbitration agreement applies to SLS’s cross-claims,
whether Cross-Defendants may compel arbitration after previously opposing it,
and whether All Love may invoke the arbitration agreement as a nonsignatory.
 
Examining the
Confidentiality Clause in the Operating Agreement will indicate whether SLS’s
cross-claims are based on the Operating Agreement. Article VIII, Section 8.6 of
the Operating Agreement reads as follows:
“Confidentiality. All books, records,
financial statements, tax returns, budgets, business plans and projections of
the Company, all other information concerning the business, affairs and
properties of the Company and all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement
shall be held in confidence by each Member and its respective Affiliates,
subject to any obligation to comply with (a) any applicable law, (b) any rule
or regulation of any legal authority or securities exchange or (c) any subpoena
or other legal process to make information available to the Persons entitled
thereto. Such confidentiality shall be maintained to the same degree as each
Member maintains its own confidential information (but in no event to a lesser
degree than a reasonable Person would maintain its confidential information)
and shall be maintained until such time, if any, as any such confidential
information either is, or becomes, published or a matter of public knowledge.”
(Nashon Decl., Ex. F, Ex. 1.)
 
Based on this
Confidentiality Clause, it is clear that SLS’s cross-claims arise out of the
Operating Agreement between the parties and would be under the purview of the
arbitration agreement. Several of SLS’s claims involve the Cook-Wongs taking
and using SLS’s business information. Except for the seventh and eighth causes
of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage and intentional
interference with contractual relations, all the other causes of action are
based on taking confidential and proprietary materials. (See Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 64, 74, 78-79, 95, 103, and 131.) That being stated, the seventh and
eighth causes of action incorporate all the preceding allegations. These two
causes of action are based on the alleged results of taking the confidential
and proprietary information.
 
Therefore, SLS’s
cross-claims arise out of the business relationship that existed between SLS
and the Cook-Wongs by virtue of the LLC Operating Agreement and its
Confidentiality Clause. SLS itself previously sought to enforce the arbitration
agreement in the LLC Operating Agreement when it tried to compel the Cook-Wongs
to arbitration on their claims. The Court denied that motion because the
majority of the Cook-Wongs’ claims were not arbitrable under the agreement. Now,
however, all of SLS’s cross-claims would be arbitrable because the claims are
all of a business nature and arise from the Operating Agreement and its Confidentiality
Clause.
 
SLS argues that
Cross-Defendants are judicially estopped from pursuing arbitration after
previously opposing it. “The doctrine [of judicial estoppel] applies when: (1)
the same party has taken two positions; (2) the positions were taken in
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (3) the party was successful in
asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the position or
accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally inconsistent; and (5)
the first position was not taken as a result of ignorance, fraud, or mistake.”
(Aguilar v. Lerner (2004) 32 Cal.4th 974, 989-987.)
 
While
Cross-Defendants did “successfully oppose” arbitration, as SLS points out,
Cross-Defendants were successful because the Court found that the majority of
their claims were not arbitrable and the Court did not want the claims heard
piecemeal. The motion was not denied because of any defect in the arbitration
agreement. Their position then was not wholly inconsistent with their current
position, either, because their claims against SLS are of a different nature
than SLS’s claims against them. The situations are different. It is not as if
Cross-Defendants opposed arbitration of their own claims then turned around and
supported arbitration of those claims. They are now moving for arbitration of
different claims, SLS’s claims. Cross-Defendants are not judicially estopped
from pursuing arbitration for a totally different situation.
 
Finally, the
question remains whether All Love may compel arbitration as a nonsignatory.
 
“Under that
doctrine [of equitable estoppel] …a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and
intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237, quoting Boucher v. All
Title Co. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271 and Goldman v. KPMG, LLP
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 217–18 (internal quotation marks omitted).) The
sine qua non for application of equitable estoppel as the basis for allowing a
nonsignatory to enforce an arbitration clause is, “that the claims plaintiff
asserts against the nonsignatory must be dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably
intertwined with, the underlying contractual obligations of the agreement
containing the arbitration clause.” (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 217–18; accord, JSM Tuscany, LLC, supra, 193
Cal.App.4th at 1237.) “The fundamental point is that a party is not entitled to
make use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause] as long as it worked
to her advantage, then attempt to avoid its application in defining the forum
in which her dispute . . . should be resolved.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of
Cal. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 306, quoting NORCAL Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Newton (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 64, 84 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
Courts examine the facts alleged in the operative complaint to determine
whether equitable estoppel applies. (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 229–30.) 
 
Equitable
estoppel would apply to All Love because the causes of action against All Love
are intimately founded in and intertwined with the underlying contract
obligations. The causes of action in SLS’s cross-complaint are based on the
idea that the Cook-Wongs breached their agreement or duties to SLS by going off
and starting their own business, in this instance, All Love, and using SLS’s
business records and client information to start the business. SLS’s claims
against All Love would not exist but for the Confidentiality Clause in the LLC
Operating Agreement.
 
Therefore, the petition
to compel arbitration is also granted. The case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
Moving parties
to give notice.