  Case Number:  22CHCV00696    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
3-13-24
Case
# 22CHCV00696, Umberto Barragan, et al. vs. Jaime Barragan
Trial
Date: 4-15-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Jaime Barragan
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Umberto Barragan and Cynthia Ann Flores
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED:
Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
RULING: The
motion for summary judgment is denied. However, the motion for summary
adjudication as the second cause of action for promissory estoppel is granted. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS: 
Defendant’s
evidentiary objections to all declarations and exhibits proffered in
plaintiffs’ opposition: 
 
Umberto
Barragan’s Declaration:
 
Overruled:
Nos.1-4, Nos. 10-22, Nos. 24-33, No. 35, Nos. 37-48
Sustained:
Nos. 5-9, No. 23, No. 36, Nos. 49-58
 
Cynthia
Ann Flores’s Declaration: 
 
Overruled:
Nos.59-78
Sustained:
N/A
 
Lawrence
Szabo’s Declaration: 
 
Overruled:
Nos.79-84
Sustained:
N/A
 
Exhibits:

Overruled:
Exhibits 1-33 
Sustained:
N/A
 
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs
Umberto Barragan and Cynthia Ann Flores (Plaintiffs) have alleged two causes of
action for breach of contract and promissory estoppel against Defendant Jamie Barragan
(Defendant). Umberto is the brother of Jaime, and Cynthia is the niece of
Umberto and Jaime.
 
Plaintiffs
filed this lawsuit because they believe that oral promises that Defendant made
to his siblings back in 2006 would entitle them to a share of the net proceeds
of the sale of a property that was owned by their sister Henrietta, who died in
2005. The property in question is the Hewitt Property, which Defendant sold in
2022 for $769,000.00. 
 
Prior
to her passing, it is alleged that Henrietta wished for the Hewitt Property and
another property, the Huntington Property, to be sold and the proceeds split
among her siblings. After Henrietta’s death, the siblings learned that
Defendant had title to the property and questioned how that happened. It was
after this conversation that they claim that he promised to share the proceeds
from the sale of the property with them. Plaintiffs filed suit after Defendant
did not share the proceeds from the 2022 with them.
 
Another
property that Defendant addresses in his motion is the Reedley Property. The
Reedley Property was a property that Jaime bought for his daughters, but which
was put in Henrietta’s name because of concerns related to Jaime’s ex-wife. The
Reedley Property was never put back in Jaime’s name, and at the time of
Henrietta’s death, it was still in her name. Pursuant to Henrietta’s probate
case, the proceeds for sale of this property were split four ways. Jaime argues
in his motion that there was an agreement that if his siblings deeded him the
Reedley Property, then he would give them proceeds from the sale of Hewitt and
Huntington Properties. 
 
Cynthia
alleges that she is entitled to a share of the proceeds because she is an heir
to her father Ruben’s estate. Ruben was the brother of Umberto and Jaime.
 
Defendant
filed his motion for summary judgment on December 29, 2023. Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on February 28, 2024. An untimely reply was filed on March 8, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice: Plaintiffs request that the Court take judicial
notice of records of judicial proceedings and some recorded deeds. The Court
takes judicial notice of these documents.
 
Defendant
moves for summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract on the basis that Defendant’s brother failed to agree to, breached,
and/or abandoned the condition that full title and ownership of the Reedley
Property be returned to Jaime alone. Defendant also moves on the basis that the
First and/or Second Causes of Action are barred by the statute of limitations.
Third, Defendant moves for summary judgment on the basis that the Second Cause
of Action for promissory estoppel fails because Jaime did not make a promise that
he should have reasonably expected to induce his brothers’ forbearance.
Finally, Defendant moves on the basis that Defendant Cynthia Ann Flores lacks standing
to enforce Defendant’s purported promises to her deceased father.
 
Plaintiffs
in opposition argue that triable issues of fact exist as to whether there was a
condition precedent to Defendant’s obligation to share the net sales proceeds
from the Hewitt Property. Plaintiffs also argue that there are triable issues
concerning the statute of limitations, the claim for promissory estoppel, and
whether Cynthia lacks standing.
 
In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail to rebut the grounds for the
motion because Plaintiffs’ factual assertions are not supported by the
evidentiary record and/or entirely misrepresent facts before the Court. 
 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn
form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at
467; see also CCP § 437c(c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
Issue
1
Defendant
argues that the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract fails because his
brothers failed to agree to, breached and/or repudiated Jaime’s term, condition,
and consideration that full title and ownership of the Reedley Property be
returned to him alone.
 
“A
cause of action for breach of contract requires proof of the following
elements: (1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse
for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff as a
result of the breach.” (CDF Firefighters v. Maldonado (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1226, 1239.) It is “essential to the existence of a contract” that
there be consideration, “for a promise unsupported by consideration has no
binding force.” (Torlai v. Lee (1969) 270 Cal.App.2d 854, 858.) Express
conditions are stated in the contract and are determined by the intention of
the parties as disclosed by the agreement. (Sosin v. Richardson (1962)
210 Cal.App.2d 258, 264.) “The repudiation of a contract by one of the parties
thereto, if acted upon by the nonrepudiating party before withdrawal,
constitutes a breach thereof by the former and excuses performance thereunder
by the latter.” (Winegar v. Gray (1962) 204 Cal.App.2d 303, 309.)
Anticipatory repudiation constitutes a total breach and occurs when the
promisor without justification makes a positive statement indicating that he
will not or cannot substantially perform his contractual duties. (Daum v.
Superior Court (1964) 228 Cal.App.2d 283, 288.)
 
An
informal promise to make a gift is not binding upon the promisor. (Haase v.
Cardoza (1958) 165 Cal.App.2d 35, 36.)
 
“An
obligation is conditional, when the rights or duties of any party thereto
depend upon the occurrence of an uncertain event.” (Civ. Code § 1434.) “A
condition precedent is one which is to be performed before some right dependent
thereon accrues, or some act dependent thereon is performed.” (Civ. Code §1436.)
“The existence of a condition precedent normally depends upon the intent of the
parties as determined from the words they have employed in the contract.” (Karpinski
v. Smitty’s Bar, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 456, 464.) Conditions
precedent are not favored in the law, and “courts shall not construe a term of
the contract so as to establish a condition precedent absent plain and
unambiguous contract language to that effect.” (Colaco v. Cavotec SA
(2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1172, 1183.)
 
Defendant
argues that because Plaintiffs did not follow through on returning full title
and ownership of the Reedley Property to him, then they have not upheld their
end of the contract. However, as discussed below, a declaration signed by
Defendant in 2006 makes no mention of the Reedley Property as part of this
deal.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that the agreement that is at issue is this Declaration
signed by Defendant on February 13, 2006:
 
“That pursuant to
the verbal agreement between my brothers, Joseph Barragan, Ruben Barragan,
Umberto Barragan, and myself, the two (2) real properties currently held in my
name alone and located in Los Angeles addressed as follows:
1.     
1428
Hewitt Street San Fernando, CA 91340 
2.     
552
and 556 Huntington San Fernando, CA 91340 
that upon a sale of either or both of the
real properties, the net proceeds will be divided equally amongst the four (4)
of us: Joseph Barragan, Ruben Barragan, Umberto Barragan, and Jaime Barragan,
pursuant to our sister, Henrietta Barragan’s wishes as set out in her last will
and testament.”
(Plaintiffs’ Ex. 6.)
 
Defendant
argues that the 2006 Declaration does not create a triable issue of fact
because (1) the Declaration was not a complete expression of the actual terms
of the parties’ agreement, (2) Umberto’s assertions in his Declaration are
merely conclusory and otherwise inadmissible, (3) Plaintiff Umberto provides a
self-serving Declaration that contradicts his deposition testimony, and (4)
Plaintiff’s wholly mischaracterize the scope and effect of Jamie’s deposition
testimony, which does not create an issue of fact as to Undisputed Fact Nos.
28, 29, 30 and 35.
 
Nevertheless,
the question is whether Defendant’s declaration represents an informal promise
constituting a gift, or a more formal agreement representing a contract between
the parties. If it was a gift, then it would not be enforceable. If it is a
contract, then it appears to lack consideration and mutual assent, as it is
only a declaration signed by Defendant. There is also the question of what
relationship this document has to the original oral agreement and whether it
was intended to replace the oral agreement.
 
Triable
issues of material fact exist as to whether this declaration represents a gift,
or whether it, along with the oral agreement, make an enforceable contract.
Motion denied on this issue.
 
Issue
2
Defendant
argues that the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract and Second Cause
of Action for Promissory Estoppel are barred by the Statute of Limitations.
 
The
statute of limitations for a breach of oral contract action is two years. (CCP §
339(1) (action upon a contract, obligation or liability not in writing); Aubry
v. Goldhor (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 399, 403.) The statute of limitations for
a promissory estoppel claim based upon an oral promise is also two years. (CCP §
339(1); Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1207, 1223-1224.) A cause of action ordinarily accrues
when “the wrongful act is done and the obligation or liability arises.” (Wind
Dancer Prod. Grp. v. Walt Disney Pictures (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 56, 73.) The
statute of limitations does not begin to run from the time of making a
contract, but from the time the cause of action accrues or as of the date of
the breach of the obligation. (CCP § 312; Niles v. Louis H. Rapoport &
Sons, Inc. (1942), 53 Cal.App.2d 644, 651.)
 
Defendant
argues in his motion that the alleged breach would have accrued as early as
2006 or no later than 2010 or 2011 because of a proposed stipulation that the
property would be sold and proceeds would be paid prior to distribution of Henrietta’s
state (which was wrapped up in 2010 or 2011). However, Plaintiffs argue that
the alleged breach of the agreement happened on March 9, 2022, when Defendant
sold the Hewitt Property and failed to share the proceeds with Plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs’ basis for this argument is that the stipulation that Defendant
indicated was never agreed to, signed, or filed with the Court. (Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement, Fact 20.) 
 
Defendant
replies that Plaintiffs do not even attempt to dispute Jamie’s true nature and
scope of his purported promise, as confirmed by Umberto’s probate attorneys,  which does limit the time within which Jamie
was or would have been required to sell the Hewitt Property. Moreover,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ interpretation of the Declaration - that
Jamie’s purported promise to share proceeds would last indefinitely until he or
his future heirs decided to sell the San Fernando Properties - fails as a
matter of law. Defendant further argues that Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
expressly alleges that the “verbal agreement entered into by [the brothers]
mistakenly did not include a date, or any other provisions, concerning when the
properties had to be sold by Jaime Barragan” which shows that the agreement was
not meant to be indefinite. 
 
However,
if the statute of limitations did not begin to run until March 9, 2022, then
this action was filed well within the two-year statute of limitations when it
was filed on August 26, 2022. Because plaintiffs dispute that the stipulation
defendant relies on was ever signed, there are triable issues of fact as to
when the statute of limitations began to run.
 
Thus,
the motion is denied on the statute of limitations grounds. 
 
Issue
3
Defendant
argues that the Second Cause of Action for Promissory Estoppel fails as a
matter of law because he did not make a promise he should have reasonably
expected to induce his brothers’ forbearance, whereby injustice can be avoid
only be enforcement of the promise.
 
The
elements of promissory estoppel are (1) a promise, (2) the promisor should
reasonably expect the promise to induce action or forbearance on the part of
the promisee or a third person, (3) the promise induces action or forbearance
by the promisee or a third person, and (4) injustice can be avoided only by
enforcement of the promise. (Kajima/Ray Wilson v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2000) 23 Cal.4th 305, 310.) The
doctrine of estoppel must be applied strictly and should not be enforced unless
substantiated in every particular. (Bear Creek Co. v. James (1953) 115
Cal. App. 2d 725, 732.)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ contention that Jaime’s promise to share the proceed of
sale should have induced the forbearance of his brothers fails. First, he
argues that it fails because there is no evidence that Jaime’s brothers
threatened to file a lawsuit against him concerning the San Fernando properties.
Second, he argues that the description of the promise is incomplete and ignores
the conditions that the Reedley Property be returned to him. Third, Defendant
argues that the promise ignores that the property was to be sold prior to
Henrietta’s estate closing. Finally, he argues that Plaintiffs cannot show that
injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of the promise.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their opposition that Defendant’s February 2006 Declaration, discussed
above, is the promise. Second, Plaintiffs argue that they relied upon the
promise. 
 
In
reply, Defendant notes that Plaintiffs failed to provide any arguments to
support their contention that their reliance was reasonable and foreseeable
because the Memorandum includes a heading without any argument underneath it. 
 
The
Court reviewed the Opposition and was also unable to locate any argument
regarding the second element regarding reasonableness and foreseeability. 
 
Therefore,
Plaintiffs failed to meet their burden. There is not a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Defendant’s February 2006 Declaration constitutes a
promise, and if so, whether an injustice can only be avoided by enforcement of
that promise. Motion granted on the second cause of action for promissory
estoppel.
 
Issue
4
Defendant
argues that Cynthia lacks standing to enforce Jaime’s purported promises to her
deceased father because she cannot recover on behalf of her father’s estate.
Specifically,
Defendant argues that Cynthia brings this action in her own personal name and
prays that she personally be awarded damages to her sole and exclusive personal
benefit. She does not bring this action “on behalf” of, much less for the
benefit of, her father’s Estate. (Undisputed Fact No. 39.)
 
“Generally, an executor or other personal
representative is the person authorized to maintain or defend an action on
behalf of a probate estate.” (Ring v. Harmon (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 844,
850; see Probate Code § 9820.) “There are limited circumstances where the
beneficiary of the estate has standing to sue a third party to seek redress for
an injury to the estate.” (Id.) One such exception are actions for
possession of or to quiet title to the property of a decedent. (Probate Code §
9654.) “Also, appellate courts have occasionally recognized ‘special
circumstances’ where it is appropriate to allow the beneficiary to pursue an
action because the personal representative cannot or will not act. (Citation.)”
(Ring, supra, at 850.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Cynthia can
recover based on her interest as an heir to her father’s estate. Specifically, Plaintiffs
argue that Cynthia can recover because Ruben’s interest succeeded to his
surviving spouse, Manuela, upon his death, and when Manuela died, Cynthia
became the Trustee of the Manuela Barragan Living Trust. The final accounting
of Henrietta’s estate indicated that any property of the estate would be
distributed to the living siblings and the appointed representative of the Estate
of Ruben Barragan. Manuela Barragan was the representative for Ruben’s estate.
In the Petition for Final Distribution of Ruben’s estate, it was indicated that
all after-discovered property of the decedent of the estate shall be
distributed to Manuela. Manuela’s assets were placed in the Living Trust, of
which Cynthia is the Trustee and one of two beneficiaries. Plaintiffs argue
that this means that Cynthia is entitled to half of Ruben’s alleged 25%
interest in the Hewitt Property, thereby giving her standing.
 
Defendant argues that Cynthia fails to establish that
she inherited any of her father’s causes of action because those causes of
actions accrued before her father passed away. Moreover, Cynthia lacks standing
to bring those causes of action individually. Additionally, if Cynthia had sued
in a representative capacity on behalf of her father’s Estate, she fails to
provide any evidence showing that “special circumstances” exist that allow her
to sue in the place of the Estate administrator. 
 
Defendant failed to provide any authority supporting his
contentions. Additionally, Cynthia presented a special circumstance which was
the inheritance from Manuela Barragan. Therefore, a triable issue of material
fact exists. Thus, the Motion is denied on the standing grounds.
 
Conclusion 
The motion for summary judgment is denied. However,
the motion for summary adjudication as the second cause of action for
promissory estoppel is granted. 
 
Trial remains set for April 15, 2024.
 
Moving
party to give notice.