  Case Number:  23STCV16837    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  57   Plaintiff
Yelena Fridman (“Fridman”) formerly was employed by Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center (“Cedars”).  Fridman’s
operative complaint asserts claims against Cedars for, inter alia,
discrimination on the basis of religion and disability in violation of
California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”). Pending before the Court
is Fridman’s motion for leave to amend the complaint to add claims of
discrimination and harassment based on Fridman’s age in violation of FEHA. Cedar’s
opposes Fridman’s motion.  The Court is
denying the motion.  The Court agrees
with Cedars that the proposed new claims are time-barred under the applicable
one-year statute of limitations for bringing FEHA claims in court following the
receipt of a right-to-sue letter from the state agency that administers FEHA.  In light of that determination, the Court is
not addressing the other grounds on which Cedars opposes Fridman’s motion.
Fridman’s
motion rests on Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(a), which provides that trial courts “may, in furtherance of justice, and on
any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . . .”  In general, there is “great liberality” under
Section 473(a) in allowing parties leave to amend their pleadings at any stage
of a case.  (Board of Trustees v.
Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1163, citation omitted.)  Absent prejudice to the other party, leave to
amend normally should be granted.  (Ibid.)   However, “[l]eave
to amend may be denied where permitting an amendment would be futile . . .
e.g., where the amendment does not state a cause of action.” (Singh v.
Lipworth (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 813, 828.) 
One example of a futile amendment is one that seeks to add a claim that is
barred by the appliable statute of limitations. (Royalty Carpet Mills, Inc. v. City of Irvine (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1124.)
In the Court’s
view, the futility exception applies here because Fridman’s proposed age
discrimination and age harassment claims are time-barred.
FEHA claims
must brought in court within one-year of the plaintiff’s receipt of a right-to-sue
letter from the Civil Rights Division (“CRD”), formerly known as the Department
of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH”), following the plaintiff’s filing of an
administrative complaint with the CRD. (Downs v. Department of Water and
Power (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1096.) On April 25, 2023, Fridman filed
an administrative complaint with the CRD alleging that Cedars discriminated
against her on the basis of her religion and disability in violation of
FEHA.  Fridman received a right-to-sue
letter from the CRD that same day.  This
means that Fridman had until April 25, 2024 (one year after receipt of the
right-to-sue letter) to sue Cedars in court under FEHA.  Fridman sued Cedars on July 19, 2023.   Her suit asserted claims against Cedars for discrimination
on the basis of religion and disability, as previewed in the administrative
complaint.  The suit made no claims,
however, that she was discriminated against and harassed by Cedars on the basis
of age.  It was not until October 8, 2024
that Fridman filed an amended administrative complaint with CRD alleging claims
of discrimination and harassment based on her age.  Consistent with applicable regulations, however,
CRD did not issue a new right-to-sue letter based on the new claims.  Rather, CRD stated that the amended administrative
complaint has the same date, April 25, 2023, as the initial administrative
complaint and right-to-sue letter. Fridman’s proposed amendment to her
complaint in this Court comes more than a year after she received that right-to-sue
letter and thus is time-barred.
Fridman
contends that her proposed claims of discrimination and harassment on the basis
of her age relate back to the initial administrative complaint of April 25,
2023 and the right-to-sue letter of that same date and thus are timely.  Fridman is mistaken.
“Under the
relation-back doctrine, an amendment relates back to the original complaint if
the amendment: (1) rests on the same general set of facts; (2) involves the
same injury; and (3) refers to the same instrumentality.” (Pointe San Diego
Residential Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265, 276.)  “In
determining whether the amended complaint alleges facts that are sufficiently
similar to those alleged in the original complaint, the critical inquiry is
whether the defendant had adequate notice of the claim based on the original
pleading.” (Id.) 
 There is
surprisingly little authority on whether, under this test, a claim of one form
of discrimination in violation of FEHA relates back to another form of
discrimination in violation of FEHA. 
Notably, however, the case on which Fridman relies to support her
invocation of the relation-back doctrine, Rodriguez v. Airborne Express
(9th Cir. 2021) 265 F.3d 890, undermines her cause.  In that case, the Ninth Circuit applying
California law stated that an untimely amendment that asserts a new theory of liability
under FEHA may be timely under the relation-back doctrine but only if the
factual allegations in the initial administrative complaint can “bear the weight
of the new theory added by amendment,” which the Ninth Circuit described as
meaning that the allegations in the initial administrative complaint adequately
apprised the employer of possible additional claims. (Id. at p. 899.)  Applying that standard, the Ninth Circuit
held that an untimely claim for disability discrimination in violation of FEHA that
the DFEH accepted did not relate back to an earlier-filed claim for race
discrimination in violation of FEHA and thus was barred by the one-year statute
of limitations for bringing suit following receipt of a right-to-sue letter.  As the Ninth Circuit saw it, the plaintiff’s administrative
complaint alleging race discrimination did not bear the weight of the new theory
of disability discrimination and thus failed to adequately place the
defendant-employer on notice that the plaintiff might have a claim for
disability discrimination.  (Id.
at pp. 899-900.)  
Applying the
reasoning and analysis of Rodriguez, the California Court of Appeal in Foroudi
v. Aerospace Corp. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 992, 1003-1004, held that an
untimely claim based on a theory that the employer’s ostensibly neutral
practices had a disparate impact on older employees did not relate back to the
initial claim based on the theory that the employer had intentionally treated
the plaintiff disparately based on his age. 
The allegations supporting the disparate treatment claim, the Court of Appeal
stated, did not bear the weight of the disparate impact claim and thus did not
give the employer adequate notice of the new claim.
 Under Rodriguez
and Foroudi, Fridman’s initial administrative complaint for
discrimination on the basis of religion and disability that led to her receipt
of a right-to-sue letter from the CRD does not bear the weight of the new claims
for discrimination and harassment on the basis of age.  Those new claims came out of the blue.  They do not relate back to the April 25, 2023
right-to-sue latter.  Because more than a
year has passed since that letter was issued, the claims that Fridman seeks leave
from the Court to assert in her amended complaint in this action are time-barred.
And for that reason, the Court is denying Fridman’s motion for leave to amend.