 Case Number:  23VECV01030    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV01030 HART V LASALLE [TENTATIVE] ORDER:   Plaintiff Shelly Hart’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction is DENIED.  Introduction Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff)  moved for a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendants Legacy Partners, Inc.  (Legacy) and Kyle Dupree (Dupree) (collectively, Defendants) and any employees  or agents of theirs from acting as landlord and property managers that can  demand rent, deposit rent, and enter into Plaintiff’s home.  (Code Civ.  Proc., sec. 526(a)(2) and (3).)  Plaintiff argued that Defendants do not  have a valid Business Tax Registration Certificate issued by the City of Los  Angeles.  (Los Angeles Mun. Code, sec. 21.03.) Discussion A preliminary injunction is  authorized when the Complaint sets forth a cause of action for injunctive  relief or to maintain the status quo until judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  sec. 526(a)(1)-(3).)  Plaintiff’s Complaint requested injunctive relief  enjoining Defendants from unlawful conduct. (See Complaint, Prayer at paragraph  5.)  However, the unlawful conduct at issue in the Complaint are: (1)  Defendants’ failure to maintain and/or repair common areas of the property; (2)  Defendants’ harassment, intimidation, threats and/or targeting of Plaintiff;  (3) Defendants’ failure to make repairs in her unit; (4) Defendants’  failure/refusal to keep Plaintiff informed via email; and (5) lease provisions  that are illegal or unconscionable (i.e., early termination provision) (Compl.  pars. 24-54.)   A proper request for preliminary  injunction would be either based upon the causes of action alleged in the  Complaint or based upon a request to maintain the status quo relating to the  issues of maintenance/repair, issues of harassment, or issues regarding notices  via email as alleged in the Complaint.  None of the issues alleged in the  Complaint relate to Defendants alleged incapacity to conduct business in Los  Angeles, especially as to Legacy’s alleged property manager status and/or  Dupree’s alleged status as Vice President of LPF Triana, Inc. and status as the  employee responsible for the property.  In fact, Plaintiff’s request for  preliminary injunction conflicts with the claims alleged in the  Complaint.  In essence, Plaintiff’s Complaint is seeking to require  Defendants to do their job as either landlord or property manager, whereas the  instant motion requests a Court order to prohibit Defendants from performing  some of their duties as landlord or property manager, such as collecting rent.   Because Plaintiff’s request for preliminary injunction is not within the scope  of the allegations of the Complaint and is not related to maintaining the  status quo, the motion for preliminary injunction is improper. Because the request for a  preliminary injunction is not based upon the requested relief in the Complaint,  the Court need not review the other substantive elements of a preliminary  injunction (i.e., likelihood of success on the merits, immediate and  irreparable injury; and inadequate remedy at law.)  Even if the request  for preliminary injunction may be related to the claims at issue or  maintaining the status quo, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently  proved up the substantive elements for a preliminary injunction. The Court further noted that  Plaintiff’s requested relief appears to have changed between the motion and the  reply.  The Notice to the Motion requested an injunction against Legacy  and Dupree (i.e., enjoining them from acting as landlord or property manager  and/or enjoining the collection of rent or entry into Plaintiff’s unit.)   However, the reply’s “Conclusion” appears to have changed the requested relief  to a request to enjoin LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc. dba LPF Triana, Inc.  from conducting business in California and at the property.  The Notice to  the Motion did not identify LaSalle Investment Management, Inc., LPF Triana,  LLC or “LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc. dba LPF Tirana, Inc.” as parties  against whom the motion is seeking relief.  Without the Notice to the  Motion identifying or referencing these parties, Plaintiff failed to provide  proper notice and opportunity to be heard to these parties.  Any request  for relief against LaSalle Investment Management, Inc., LPF Triana, LLC or  “LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc. dba LPF Tirana, Inc.” is improperly noticed  and not considered.   The  motion for preliminary injunction is DENIED.      [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants LPF Triana, LLC, LaSalle  Investment Management, Inc., and Kyle Dupree’s Motion to Quash the Deposition  Subpoenas to Bank of America and Wells Fargo is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in  Part.  As to the subpoena served upon  Bank of America, the motion is DENIED as to Request nos. 1-4 and otherwise  GRANTED.  As to the subpoena served upon  Wells Fargo, the motion is DENIED as to Request nos. 1-3 and 6 and otherwise  GRANTED.   Bank of America is ORDERED to  produce documents in response to Request nos. 1-4 only.  Wells Fargo is ORDERED to produce documents  in response to Request nos. 1-3 and 6 only.The court notes that Kyle Dupree does not have standing to object to the subpoenas. Introduction  Defendants LPF Triana, LLC (LPF  LLC), LaSalle Investment Management, Inc. (LIMI), and Kyle Dupree’s (Dupree)  (collectively, Defendants) moved to quash Plaintiff Shelly Hart’s (Plaintiff)  deposition subpoenas served upon Third Parties Bank of America (BOA) and Wells  Fargo (WF).  Plaintiff’s subpoenas sought  bank records of “Triana” or “LPF Triana Inc.”. Procedure  Plaintiff objected that  Defendants failed to submit a Separate Statement with the Motion to Quash.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1345(a)(5).)  Defendants asserted that  a Separate Statement was not required because no response was provided.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1345(b)(1).)  However, Defendants  misapplied the rule.  Defendants are  objecting to the contents of the subpoena by way of a motion to quash, which  requires a Separate Statement.  Further,  Defendants are not the responding party that subdivision (b)(1) applies; Defendants  are the moving parties.  The Court  disagrees with Defendants argument.   Despite the failure to submit a  Separate Statement, the Court reviewed the merits of the motion to avoid  unnecessary delay or continuance. Moving parties are directed to review the  requirement to familiarize themselves on the requirements on a motion to quash.  The Court noted that Defendants’ Points and Authorities provided a concise  outline/list of the demands at issue and their reasons to deny production.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(2).)  Further, Plaintiff addressed the merits of  Defendants’ objections/grounds for the motion so there is no prejudice.  However, in the future, the court may elect  to deny a motion to quash if it is procedurally defective.   Discussion Defendants and the Court  recognize that the Court previously ruled that Plaintiff was entitled to copies  of the fronts and backs of her own checks from BOA.  To now deny Plaintiff the copies of the  checks would be conflicting with the prior ruling and improper, especially  because no new facts or law has been presented.   The Court considers the prior ruling the law of the case and finds that  the subpoenas requests for the fronts and backs of Plaintiff’s checks are  merited.  They are her own checks. Defendants objections as to  privacy are not persuasive.  The Court  does not find that Defendants’ rights to privacy outweighs Plaintiff’s right to  copies of her own checks.  The Court  further does not find the request for fronts and backs of checks to be  oppressive because it is not Defendants that are producing the documents.  There are no costs to Defendants associated  with the production from BOA and WF.   Defendants’ objections are not persuasive. The motion to quash as to Request  nos. 1-4 as to BOA and Request nos. 1-3, and 6 as to WF is DENIED.   The document demands made to BOA  and WF also involve ownership of the accounts (BOA Request nos. 5, 7, 8; WF  Request nos. 4, 5, 7-9.)  The Court finds  that the evidence as to the ownership of the accounts is not relevant to the  claims alleged in the Complaint and/or defenses alleged by Defendants because  facts as to ownership of the accounts will not lead to admissible evidence as  to Plaintiff’s claims.  Defendants’  rights to privacy outweigh Plaintiff’s rights to the documents.  The motion to quash as to Request  nos. 5, 7, 8 as to BOA and Request nos. 4, 5, 7-9 as to WF is GRANTED.   The remaining document demands  are found in the subpoena served upon WF.   (WF Request nos. 10-12.)  These  demands seek information as to how Plaintiff’s rent checks were recorded or  processed.  These documents demands are  not seen to be relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and/or defenses alleged by  Defendants because facts as to how Plaintiff’s rent checks were recorded or  processed will not lead to admissible evidence as to Plaintiff’s claims.  Defendants’ rights to privacy outweigh  Plaintiff’s rights to the documents. The motion to quash as to Request  nos. 10-12 as to WF is GRANTED.   The court will issue separate  orders for the deponents to produce the documents in Request nos. 1-4 as to BOA  and Request nos. 1-3, and 6 as to WF. IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE.  