  Case Number:  21STCV09278    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-13-24
Case #21STCV09278,
R.W. vs. Doe 1, et al.
Trial Date: 3-10-25
 
MOTION TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, Greek Orthodox metropolis of San
Franciso, and Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants have
requested that an attorney be admitted pro hac vice.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION AND ANALYSIS
Defendants’
California counsel, Catherine Naltsas, has filed an application for pro hac
vice status for Texas attorney Justin Kenney. The declaration of this attorney
filed in support of his application for pro hac vice status complies with the
requirements of Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40.  
 
Rule 9.40
states that an applicant’s application “must” state (1) the applicant’s
residence and office address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the
name, address, and telephone number of the active licensees of the State Bar of
California who are the attorneys of record for the case. (See Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 9.40(d).)
 
Mr. Kenney’s
declaration contains all of the information required by Rule 9.40(d). The Court
grants his application. 
 
The attorney’s
application to be admitted pro hac vice is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.Dept. F43Date: 8-13-24Case #21STCV09278,
R.W. vs. Doe 1, et al.Trial Date: 3-10-25 MOTION TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, Greek Orthodox metropolis of San
Franciso, and Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of AmericaRESPONDING
PARTY: No response filed RELIEF
REQUESTEDDefendants have
requested that an attorney be admitted pro hac vice. RULING: Motion
is granted. SUMMARY OF
ACTION AND ANALYSISDefendants’
California counsel, Catherine Naltsas, has filed an application for pro hac
vice status for Texas attorney John Zavitsanos. The declaration of this attorney
filed in support of his application for pro hac vice status complies with the
requirements of Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40.   Rule 9.40
states that an applicant’s application “must” state (1) the applicant’s
residence and office address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the
name, address, and telephone number of the active licensees of the State Bar of
California who are the attorneys of record for the case. (See Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 9.40(d).) Mr. Zavitsanos’
declaration contains all of the information required by Rule 9.40(d). The Court
grants his application.  The attorney’s
application to be admitted pro hac vice is granted. Moving party to
give notice.
