  Case Number:  24PSCV00982    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  H Viveros
v. Joaquin, Case No.
24PSCV00982
 
ORDER ON MOTION TO STRIKE


Defendant
Yenner de Jesus Perez Joaquin’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint is GRANTED, with 20 days’ leave to amend.

Background
Plaintiffs Cynthia Viveros and Matthew
Bernard Ianiro (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege that they sustained injuries and
damages in an August 8, 2022 motor vehicle accident.
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
First Amended Complaint (the “Operative Complaint” or “FAC”), asserting a negligence
cause of action against Yenner Perez (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100.
Pending before the Court is Defendant’s
motion to strike portions of the Operative Complaint. For the reasons stated
herein, the motion is granted, with 20 days’ leave to amend.

Legal Standard
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)

Discussion
Defendant
moves the Court for an order striking out the following portions of the
Operative Complaint:
          (1)      The
portion of Paragraph 11, contained on page 2 of the Operative Complaint,
reading: “while under the influence of alcohol.”
          (2)
     The entirety of Paragraph 12,
contained on page 2 of the Operative Complaint, reading: “Defendant YENNER
PEREZ was intoxicated and driving with a blood alcohol level above the legal
limit.”
(3)      The portion
of Paragraph 17, contained on page 3 of the Operative Complaint, reading:
“…while under the influence of alcohol and ran a red light, in violation of
Vehicle Code Section 21345(a).”
(4)      The entirety
of Paragraph 18, contained on page 4 of the Operative Complaint, reading: “Plaintiffs
are informed and believe, and on such information and belief thereon allege,
that on or about August 8, 2022, Defendant YENNER PEREZ voluntarily consumed
alcohol to the point of intoxication, which sharply impaired Defendant’s
physical and mental faculties, knowing that when the consumption began that Defendant
was going to be operating a motor vehicle while consuming the intoxicants, or
soon thereafter. At the time of the above mentioned collision, the Defendant
carelessly, negligently, wantonly and/or unlawfully operated a motor vehicle in
that intoxicated condition, or while consuming said intoxicants. The Defendant
was aware from the outset of the probable consequences of such conduct and
willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences, an action with
conscious disregard for the rights and safety of others. The aforementioned
conduct was willful and was intended to cause severe bodily injury suffered by
Plaintiffs CYNTHIA VIVEROS and MATTHEW BERNARD IANIRO. Plaintiffs CYNTHIA
VIVEROS and MATTHEW BERNARD IANIRO are therefore entitled to an award of
exemplary and/or punitive damages.”
(5)      The entirety
of Paragraph 19, contained on page 4 of the Operative Complaint, reading:
“Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and on such information and belief
thereon allege, that defendant YENNER PEREZ was charged with and convicted of
driving under the influence of alcohol in violation of Vehicle Code 23153(a).”
(6)      The entirety
of Paragraph 20, contained on page 4 of the Operative Complaint, reading: which
states as follows: “As a further, direct and proximate result of the aforesaid
wrongful conduct of the Defendants, Plaintiffs have suffered substantial
financial loss and personal injury. The wrongful acts of all Defendants were
intentional, outrageous, and malicious.”
(7)      The entirety
of Paragraph 21, contained on page 4 of the Operative Complaint, reading: “Put
simply, Defendant YENNER PEREZ, after consuming an excessive amount of alcohol,
or while in the process of consuming an excessive amount of alcohol, drove a
motor vehicle that collided into the vehicle driven by Plaintiff CYNTHIA
VIVEROS. Such conduct was intentional, outrageous, and malicious.”
(8)      The entirety
of Paragraph 29, contained on page 6 of the Operative Complaint, reading: “As a
further, direct and proximate result of the aforesaid wrongful conduct of the
Defendants, Plaintiffs have suffered substantial financial loss and personal
injury. The wrongful acts of Defendants were intentional, outrageous, and
malicious. Plaintiffs CYNTHIA VIVEROS and MATTHEW BERNARD IANIRO are therefore entitled
to an award of exemplary and/or punitive damages.”
(9)      The entirety
of Paragraph 30, contained on page 6 of the Operative Complaint, reading: “When
Defendant YENNER PEREZ voluntarily consumed alcoholic beverages to the point of
intoxication and drove an automobile, causing the traffic collision and
resulting injury, Defendant was committing a felony in violation of California Vehicle
Code section 23153. Defendant YENNER PEREZ was charged with, and convicted of,
a felony violation of California Vehicle Code Section 23153. Based on
Defendant’s causation of Plaintiffs’ damages while in the commission of a
felony, Plaintiffs are entitled to recover reasonable attorney’s fees under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.4.”
(10)    Plaintiffs’
prayer for “Exemplary” and “Punitive Damages.” (FAC, Page 6, Prayer item No.
3.)
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
The Court
grants Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice, which is comprised of the
docket in Case No. CITKA133353-01, styled The People of the State of
California v, Perez Joaquin, Yenner DeJesus.
 
Merits
At the
outset, then Court disregards the Declaration of Evan C. Khoshnou filed
concurrently with Plaintiffs’ opposition brief as improper for consideration on
demurrer.
Punitive
damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an obligation not arising
from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)
“Malice” is
defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A
“conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional, willful and
fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or
malice. . .’” (Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only
must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
The
California Supreme Court in Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 892 determined that “the act of operating a motor vehicle while
intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under § 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences.” In Dawes v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the Fourth District Court of Appeal noted that
driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive
damages: “[W]e do not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes
intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets
is the same as the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag
in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area
at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from
ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not
necessarily probable.” Notably, both Taylor
and Dawes were decided prior to
1987, when the Legislature added the requirement to Civil Code section 3294
that conduct be “despicable” in order to support imposition of punitive damages
under a malice/willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others standard.
Plaintiffs
have alleged that on or about August 8, 2022 at approximately 12:49 a.m.,
Defendant was driving westbound on Foothill Boulevard while under the influence
of alcohol and crashed his vehicle into Plaintiffs’ vehicle after running a red
light. (FAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendant was driving with a
blood alcohol level above the legal limit and that he was charged and convicted
of driving under the influence of alcohol in violation of Vehicle Code
23153(a). (Id., ¶¶ 12 and 19.) The Court does not believe Plaintiffs
have pled that “[t]he risk of injury to others from [Defendant’s] conduct under
the circumstances alleged was probable.” (Dawes, supra, 111 Cal.App.3d
at 89.)
The
motion is granted. The Court grants Plaintiffs 20 days’ leave to amend. (City
of Stockton v. Superior Ct. (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 730, 747 [“[L]eave to amend
is liberally allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its
face that it is incapable of amendment.”].)