 Case Number:  23PSCV01693    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Sandra Garcia’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff Ramiro S. Lopez’s Verified Partition Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Ramiro S. Lopez
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Sandra Garcia’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff Ramiro S. Lopez’s Verified Partition Complaint is GRANTED IN PART with ten (10) days leave to amend as to
Lopez’s request for prejudgment interest and DENIED IN PART on all other
grounds.
 
BACKGROUND

This is a partition action involving real
property in Pomona. In April 1994, Maria Luisa Sandoval and Plaintiff Ramiro S.
Lopez acquired the Pomona property through a grant deed as tenants-in-common.
In February 2022, Sandoval and Lopez mortgaged the Pomona property through
Defendant Travelers Bank & Trust (Travelers). In May 2004, Sandoval and
Lopez also mortgaged the Pomona property through Defendant Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS). After Sandoval passed away in October 2022,
the relationship between Lopez and Defendant Sandra Garcia, the successor
trustee of the Maria Luisa Sandoval Trust (Sandoval Trust), allegedly
deteriorated.
 
On June 6, 2023, Lopez filed a complaint
against Garcia, MERS, Travelers, and Does 1-10, alleging a cause of action for
partition.
 
On September 1, 2023, Garcia filed the
present motion. Prior to filing on that same day, Garcia’s counsel met and
conferred telephonically with Lopez’s counsel and was unable to reach a
resolution. (Lepe Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
A hearing on the motion to strike is set for October
16, 2023. A case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of
Service are also set for November 6.
 
ANALYSIS

Garcia moves to strike a total of eleven
items from Lopez’s Complaint including (1) common benefit allegations, (2) right
of use and occupancy allegations, (3) requests for compensatory and equitable
damages, (4) a request for a tenancy-in-common judgment, (5) a request for an
award of costs and expenses, (6) a request for appointment of a partition
referee and receiver, (7) equitable relief, (8) a request for damages imposed
on Garcia’s interest in the Pomona property, (9) a request for a writ of
possession, and (10) a request for pre-judgment interest. 
 
For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Garcia’s motion as to the tenth issue and DENIES Garcia’s motion on
all other grounds.
 
Legal Standard

Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own
motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
An immaterial or irrelevant allegation
includes “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim
or defense,” “(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.) The court may also “strike
false, i.e. untrue, matters contained in a pleading whenever their falsity or
untruthfulness is revealed by facts which are judicially noticed.” (Garcia
v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 21.)
 
(1) Common Benefit Allegations

Garcia argues Lopez’s allegations that this
action is maintained for the parties’ “common benefit” are false and frivolous.
(Complaint, ¶ 19, 28.) But Garcia does not point to any other allegation in the
Complaint or judicially noticeable fact that establishes these allegations are
false. Accordingly, Garcia’s motion to strike on these grounds is DENIED.
 
(2) Right of Use and Occupancy
Allegations

Garcia contends Lopez’s allegation that “he
has a right to full use and occupancy of the [Pomona property]” is false and
frivolous. (Complaint, ¶ 24.) But while Garcia contends Lopez’s alleged
tenancy-in-common does not allow Lopez to have exclusive access, Lopez’s allegation
does not state such “use and occupancy” is exclusive. Accordingly, Garcia’s
motion to strike on these grounds is DENIED.
 
(3) Compensatory and Equitable Damages

Garcia maintains Lopez’s request for compensatory
and equitable damages is improper. (Complaint, Prayer, ¶ A.) But Garcia
concedes that Lopez may be entitled to a compensatory adjustment and fails to
point to any binding authority that prohibits Lopez from seeking such damages
in a partition action. Accordingly, Garcia’s motion to strike on these grounds
is DENIED.
 
(4) Tenancy-in-Common Judgment

Garcia argues Lopez’s request “[f]or a
judgment that the Parties are each fifty-percent (50%) tenants-in-common owners
of the [Pomona property]” is improper. (Complaint, Prayer, ¶ B.) But while Garcia
argues this is improper as Lopez has requested partition by sale, this argument
is ignorant of the fact that the law requires the court to enter such a
judgment. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 872.720, subd. (a) [“If the court
finds that the plaintiff is entitled to partition, it shall make an
interlocutory judgment that determines the interests of the parties in the
property and orders the partition of the property and, unless it is to be later
determined, the manner of partition.”].) Accordingly, Garcia’s motion to strike
on these grounds is DENIED.
 
(5) Award of Costs and Expenses

Garcia contends Lopez’s request for the award
of costs and expenses is improper because there is no determination that the
costs and expenses of this action were incurred for a common benefit. (Complaint,
Prayer, ¶ C.) The court finds this argument entirely without merit as Lopez
specifically alleges this action was brought for the common benefit. (See Complaint,
¶ 19, 28.) Accordingly, Garcia’s motion to strike on these grounds is DENIED.
 
(6) Appointment of Partition Referee and
Receiver

Garcia maintains Lopez’s request for the
appointment of a partition referee and receiver is improper because Lopez has
failed to allege Lopez’s right of possession is threatened by another
tenant-in-common. (Complaint, Prayer, ¶ D.) But, Lopez specifically alleged the
deterioration of parties’ relationship, the lack of communication, and an
inability to agree on how to divide the property. (Complaint, ¶ 19.) The court
finds this pleading sufficient to request this form of relief and that any
further findings would be premature at this time. Accordingly, Garcia’s motion
to strike on these grounds is DENIED.
 
(7) Equitable Relief

Garcia argues Lopez’s request “[f]or
equitable relief to change the locks, eject and exclude any individuals
occupying the [Pomona property] or with keys to the [Pomona property], and
prepare the [Pomona property] for marketing and sale” is improper. (Complaint,
Prayer, ¶ E.) Garcia argues it is improper because Lopez does not currently
have exclusive possession of the property and the resolution of this action
will not require such a remedy. However, Garcia’s opinion as to what will and
will not be required at the end of this action’s resolution is not a proper
basis for a motion to strike. Accordingly, Garcia’s motion to strike on these
grounds is DENIED.
 
(8) Damages Imposed on Garcia’s Interest
in the Pomona Property

Garcia contends Lopez’s request “[f]or a
judgment imposing [Lopez]’s damages on the Defendants’ interests in the [Pomona
property], which judgment shall be secured by a lien on, and paid out of, the
Defendants’ portion of the net proceeds from the sale” is improper. (Complaint,
Prayer, ¶ I.) But Garcia admits that Lopez may be entitled to a compensatory
adjustment. Accordingly, Garcia’s motion to strike on these grounds is DENIED.
 
(9) Writ of Possession

Garcia maintains Lopez’s request for a writ
of possession is improper because Lopez does not currently have exclusive
possession of the property and the resolution of this action will not require
such a remedy. (Complaint, ¶ 24, Prayer, ¶ J.) But as noted above, Garcia’s
opinion as to what will and will not be required at the end of this action’s
resolution is not a proper basis for a motion to strike. Accordingly, Garcia’s
motion to strike on these grounds is DENIED.
 
(10) Prejudgment Interest

Garcia argues Lopez’s request for prejudgment
interest is improper. (Complaint, Prayer, ¶ L.) The court agrees since Lopez’s
requested damages are not “certain, or capable of being made certain by
calculation” from a specific day pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
3287, subdivision (a). (See Jamison v. Jamison (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
714, 721.) Accordingly, Garcia’s motion to strike on this ground is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, Garcia’s
motion to strike portions of Lopez’s Complaint is GRANTED IN PART with ten
(10) days leave to amend as to Lopez’s request for prejudgment interest and DENIED
IN PART on all other grounds.
