 Case Number:  22PSCV01275    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant-in-Intervention State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to Intervene in Action
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant-in-Intervention State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to Intervene in Action is GRANTED and State
Farm’s proposed answer, filed separately, is deemed filed this date.
BACKGROUND
This is a personal injury
action arising from an automobile collision. In January 2022, Defendant Freddy
Omar Perez Talavera was driving a box truck westbound on State Route 60 in Los
Angeles County. When traffic in front of Perez Talavera came to a stop, Perez
Talavera collided with the vehicles and caused a multi-vehicle collision. One
of the vehicles hit in the collision was being operated by Plaintiff Ramon
Perez. At the time of the collision, Perez Talavera was working for Defendant
Dynamic Delivery Install, Inc. (Dynamic). As a result of the collision, Perez
allegedly sustained personal injuries and property damage.
On October 13, 2022, Perez
filed a complaint against Dynamic, Perez Talavera, and Does 1-50, alleging (1)
negligence, (2) negligent entrustment, and (3) negligent hiring, training,
supervision, and retention.
On March 2, 2023, Perez
amended the complaint to replace Doe 1 with Defendant Premium Installs Corp.
(Premium Installs).
On September 15, 2023, State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (State Farm) filed the present motion
as an intervenor for Dynamic.
A hearing on State Farm’s
motion is set for October 16, 2023. An OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service
as to Dynamic, an OSC Re: Default/Default Judgment as to Dynamic, case
management conference, and OSC Re: Sanctions as to Premium Installs are all set
for November 16.
ANALYSIS
State
Farm moves to intervene in this action on behalf of Dynamic. For the following
reasons, the court GRANTS State Farm’s motion.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (d)(1)(B), the court must
allow a nonparty to intervene in an action upon timely application if “[t]he
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability
to protect that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.”
Furthermore,
the court may allow a nonparty to intervene in an action upon timely
application “if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in
the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).) “Intervention will generally be permitted if: ‘(1)
the proper procedures have been followed[,] (2) the nonparty has a direct and
immediate interest in the action[,] (3) the intervention will not enlarge the
issues in the litigation[,] and (4) the reasons for the intervention outweigh
any opposition by the parties presently in the action.’” (Accurso v.
In-N-Out Burgers (App. 2023) 313 Cal.Rptr.3d 51, 61, quoting City and
County of San Francisco v. State of California (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1030,
1036.)
Discussion
In
this case, State Farm argues it has a direct interest in this action because it
is Dynamic’s insurer. (Anderson Decl., ¶ 3.) The court agrees as State Farm may
be required to satisfy a judgment obtained against Dynamic. (Reliance Ins.
Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 387.) Furthermore, State
Farm’s intervention will not likely enlarge the issues in this litigation as
State Farm is likely to assert the same defenses as Dynamic. (Ibid.) Last,
Plaintiff Perez  failed to file a timely
opposition and assert any reasons against intervention.
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS State Farm’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, State
Farm’s motion to intervene is GRANTED and its proposed answer, filed
separately is deemed filed this date.