  Case Number:  19PSCV01160    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff Mohammed Khodabakhsh’s Application for
Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Mohammed Khodabakhsh’s Application for
Default Judgment is CONTINUED to a date
to be set at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
BACKGROUND
This
is an action between two former business partners. Plaintiff Mohammed
Khodabakhsh is an engineer and inventor in the clean energy technology field.
Defendant Terry L. Vechik is a marketer of inventions. In 2008, Khodabakhsh
began working with Vechik to help monetize clean energy technology developed by
Khodabakhsh. Subsequently, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik began falsely claiming to
be an equal partner in Khodabakhsh’s work. Khodabakhsh then claims Vechik took
a laptop computer and flash drive from Khodabakhsh that contained designs,
drawings, and marketing materials for Khodabakhsh’s technology and refused to
return it. When Khodabakhsh confronted Vechik about the laptop computer and
flash drive, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik threatened to kill Khodabakhsh. After
that, Khodabakhsh claims a mutual friend informed Khodabakhsh that Vechik told
the friend how Vechik was going to kill Khodabakhsh. Another friend informed Khodabakhsh
that Vechik had offered the friend money to conduct surveillance on Khodabakhsh
and inform Vechik of Khodabakhsh’s whereabouts.
On December
30, 2019, Khodabakhsh filed a complaint against Vechik; Rudd Koekkoek, also
known as Rudoph Koekkoek; Matchcorp Fin. Services BV; Rene Aemig; Hyperion
Capital; Ali Mir Zadeh; Vesten Food Concept AG, Hofstr. 2 CH 6004; and Does
1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) declaratory relief, (2)
injunctive relief, and (3) conversion.
On
September 30, 2020, Khodabakhsh filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Vechik
and Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) conversion, (2) violation
of the California Data Access and Fraud Act, (3) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (4) misappropriation of trade secrets, (5)
violation of Penal Code section 496, (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (7) violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200.
On
September 22, 2022, after Vechik repeatedly refused to comply with discovery
orders by the court and pay sanctions, the court granted Khodabakhsh’s request
to impose terminating sanctions on Vechik and struck Vechik’s answer.
On
October 26, 2022, default was entered against Vechik. On January 4, 2023, Khodabakhsh
applied for a default judgment that the court denied without prejudice on
January 10. On January 26, Khodabakhsh filed a second application for default
judgment that the court again denied without prejudice on February 2. On March
16, Khodabakhsh filed a third application for default judgment that the court
granted on March 23. On July 3, the court granted a motion by Vechik to vacate
the default judgment.
On October
10, 2023, Khodabakhsh filed the present application for default judgment. An
OSC Re: Default Judgment is set for October 16.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Khodabakhsh
seeks default judgment against Vechik in the total amount of $9,321,000,
including $8,097,500 in damages, $1,172,515 in interest, and $50,985 in
attorney fees. For the following reasons, the court CONTINUES the hearing on Khodabakhsh’s
application.
In
previously vacating the default judgment entered in favor of Khodabakhsh, the
court found Khodabakhsh failed to establish that the value of the allegedly
misappropriated trade secrets in this action were equal to the value of
Khodabakhsh’s ‘907 Patent. (7/3/2023 Ruling, p. 4.) While Khodabakhsh relied on
the expert opinion of Richard M. Holstrom, the court found Holstrom was a
forensic accountant and was not qualified to opine on whether Khodabakhsh’s
trade secrets were necessary to utilize the ‘907 Patent. (7/3/2023 Ruling, p.
4.)
In
the present application for default judgment, Khodabakhsh also provides an
expert report from Joseph D. Smith, Ph.D., FAICHE. Based on Dr. Smith’s
qualifications and experience, it appears Dr. Smith is qualified to provide an
expert opinion on the applicability of Khodabakhsh’s trade secrets to the ‘907
Patent. But the court notes Dr. Smith’s report is not a proper declaration.
While the report includes a “Statement of Truth,” the statement lacks the
required language for sworn declarations as set out in Code of Civil Procedure
section 2015.5. Accordingly, the court will continue the hearing so Khodabakhsh
can resubmit Dr. Smith’s declaration in proper form.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Khodabakhsh’s application for default
judgment is CONTINUED
to a date to be set at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
