 Case Number:  21STCV29759    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  B  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



REYES VALADEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF NORWALK; COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES; CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
  EDISON COMPANY; FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION;
and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive, 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 21STCV29759
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD
  FAITH SETTLEMENT 
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m. 
July 17, 2024



 
 
1. Background
            On
August 12, 2021, Plaintiff REYES VALADEZ (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants CITY OF NORWALK (“City”); COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (“County”);
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (“Department”); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
EDISON COMPANY (“SCE”); FRONTIER CALIFORNIA, INC., erroneously sued as, FRONTIER
COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (“Frontier”); and DOES 1 to 50 (collectively,
“Defendants”), inclusive for: (1) Premises Liability and (2) General Negligence.

Defendant Frontier,
at this time, moves for an (1) order determining that the settlement between it
and Plaintiff is in good faith; (2) order barring all potential third-party
complaints and/or cross-complaints and further claims against Defendant
Frontier for equitable contribution or partial or comparative indemnity; and
(3) order dismissing all causes of action against Defendant Frontier. Defendant
Spectrum Pacific West LLC (“Doe 1” or “Spectrum”) opposes the instant motion,
and Defendant Frontier filed a reply. 
 
 
 
2. Evidentiary Objections
            Defendant
Frontier’s objections to the Declaration of Ernest Chang submitted in support
of Defendant Spectrum’s Opposition are: SUSTAINED. 
 
3. Motion to Determine Good
Faith Settlement 
a. Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure Section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1),“[a]ny¿party to an action wherein
it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on
a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith
of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or. . . and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(a)(1).) “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(c).)¿Although a determination
that a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other party from
liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others in the amount
stipulated” by the settlement.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 877(a).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“The party asserting the lack
of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6(d).)¿¿ 
In¿Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, the California
Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts are to
consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section
877.6:¿“a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial.¿Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests
of¿nonsettling¿defendants.”¿(Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)
The evaluation of whether a
settlement was made in good faith is required to “be made¿on the basis
of¿information available at the time of settlement.”¿(Tech-Bilt,¿supra,
38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)¿“‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement,
would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’ [Citation.]”¿(Ibid.)¿¿¿¿

“The party asserting the lack
of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6,¿subd. (d)),
should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far
‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with
the equitable objectives of the statute.¿Such a demonstration would establish
that the proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within
the terms of section 877.6.”¿(Id. at 499-500.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿“Thus,¿Tech-Bilt¿held that in
determining whether a settlement was made in good faith for purposes of section
877.6, a key factor a trial court should consider is whether the amount paid in
settlement bears a reasonable relationship to the settlor’s proportionate share
of liability. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500¿. . . .)¿This
is because one of the main goals of section 877.6 is ‘allocating costs
equitably among multiple tortfeasors.’¿(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
p. 502¿. . . .).”¿(TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)¿“Accordingly, a court not only looks at the alleged
tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also consider
the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be
responsible for the same injury.¿Potential liability for indemnity to
a¿nonsettling¿defendant is an important consideration for the trial court in
determining whether to approve a settlement by an alleged
tortfeasor.¿[Citation.]”¿(Ibid.)¿¿ 
b. Discussion
            Defendant
Frontier moves for an order determining that the settlement between it and
Plaintiff was in good faith. 
            Here,
Defendant Frontier and Plaintiff have entered into a settlement agreement
wherein Plaintiff will receive $5,000 and a mutual waiver of costs of suit and
attorneys’ fees in exchange for dismissing Defendant Frontier with prejudice in
this instant case. (Terzakarian Decl., ¶2.) Defendant Frontier contends this
settlement with Plaintiff is for a substantial and equitable amount considering
the disputed nature of the claim, Plaintiff’s approximated total damages, and
Defendant’s Frontier’s proportionate share of potential liability. (Id.
at ¶3.) Specifically, Defendant Frontier argues Plaintiff has no evidence to
support a finding that it caused or contributed to any claimed damages.
Nonetheless, Defendant Frontier contends the cost of engaging in a long and
protracted litigation led to the decision to resolve the matter without a need
for trial. (Terzakarian Decl., ¶15.) Furthermore, Defendant Frontier contends
that the settlement agreement does not include any collusive or secretive
terms. (Id. at ¶16.) Moreover, Defendant Frontier asserts that
co-defendants have been informed of all relevant terms of the settlement
agreement. (Id. at ¶¶4, 17.) 
In opposition,
Defendant Spectrum contends the basis for the settlement agreement between
Defendant Frontier and Plaintiff, i.e., that Defendant Frontier “has no
liability because it did not own, maintain, operate, and/or control the
guy-down cables Plaintiff allegedly struck or the surrounding sidewalk” is
supported by a declaration that lacks personal knowledge and attaches an
exhibit that does not support the declared testimony. Defendant Spectrum
further contends at the time of the accident in 2020, Defendant Frontier
jointly-owned pole 977901E and performed construction at the pole, which
removed, lowered, and reorganized Defendant Spectrum’s lines without its
knowledge to allow for an over-build. (Opp’n at pp. 4-6.) As such, Defendant
Spectrum argues this information demonstrates Defendant Frontier’s control over
the subject property and directly informs Defendant Frontier’s potential
liability. However, Defendant Spectrum contends it is a recent addition to the
case and has not had sufficient time to fully investigate Defendant Frontier’s
scope of ownership and control of the jointly-owned utility pole. Thus,
Defendant Spectrum requests a continuance to allow for investigation into
Defendant Frontier’s lack of liability. 
In reply, Defendant
Frontier argues Defendant Spectrum asserts claims that are inapposite to the
instant motion, wholly inappropriate for this venue, and improperly presents
evidence. The Court agrees. Defendant Spectrum presents Chang’s declaration,
which purports to be based on personal knowledge but fails to lay a foundation
for Chang’s expertise or knowledge apart from being Defendant Spectrum’s
Construction Manager, fails to provide foundational facts for how Chang knows
the utility pole is allegedly joint-owned by Defendant Frontier and Defendant
Spectrum, and fails to cite any authority that would allow for a continuance in
this instance to produce such admissible evidence. As such, the Court will rule
on the merits of the instant motion. 
The Court finds
that the settlement agreement between Defendant Frontier and Plaintiff
satisfies the Tech-Bilt factors. First, the settlement is based on
Defendant Frontier (1) representation that it did not own, maintain, operate,
and/or control the guy-down cables that Plaintiff struck or the surrounding
sidewalk and (2) Plaintiff’s own purported negligence by riding his bicycle
along the sidewalk in violation of Traffic Code Section 15.76.080. Thus, it is
based on an approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery if the matter went to
trial. Also, Defendant Frontier and Plaintiff engaged in lengthy negotiations
to reach the settlement amount of $5,000. Moreover, neither Defendant Spectrum
nor the other co-defendants argue that the settlement amount is
disproportionate to Defendant Frontier’s potential liability in this case.
Finally, as discussed above, Defendant Spectrum does not present any admissible
evidence demonstrating that the
settlement agreement between Defendant Frontier and Plaintiff is so far “out of
the ballpark” in relation to the Tech-Bilt factors as to be inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of Code of Civil Procedure Section 877.6. 
            Therefore,
Defendant Frontier California, Inc.’s Motion for Determination of Good Faith is
GRANTED.  
 
Moving Defendant
is ordered to give notice.
 
Dated this 17th day of July,
2024







 


 




 


Hon. Karen
  Moskowitz
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 