 Case Number:  22STCV08568    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  B EDGAR ESTURBAN
V. IRLANDA SANCHEZ, ET AL.
 
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
PLEADINGS
 
Date of Hearing:  July
17, 2024                                   Trial Date:  9/19/24
Department:   B                                                          Case
No.: 22STCV08568
 
Moving Party:             Defendant ZLS Trans Inc.
Responding
Party:       None
                                    
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle accident.
Plaintiff Edgar Esturban filed a complaint on March 9, 2022. 
 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Irlanda Sanchez; Jose Alejandro
Medina; Uber Technologies; Raiser, LLC; and Raiser-CA, LLC alleging (1)
negligence; (2) negligence per se; and (3) negligent entrustment. 
 
On June 7, 2024, Defendant ZLS Trans Inc. (“ZLS”) filed a
motion for judgment on the pleadings. On July 12, 2024, ZLS filed a notice of
non-opposition.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
GRANT WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
A.      Meet and Confer
 
CCP § 439(a) provides that “Before filing a motion for
judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be
raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  
 
ZLS has fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the
motion. (Mitrovich Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  
 
 
 
 
 
B.       Legal Standard
 
A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the
“complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., §438(b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).)
 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at any
time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself. [Citation.]” (Ion
Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.) “A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore
not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (Citations).) The standard for
ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as
that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the
pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Bezirdjian v.
O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v.
California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)  
 
C.     
General Factual Allegations
 
The SAC alleges Sanchez was the driver of a motor vehicle
owned by Medina at the time of the collision on March 9, 2020. (SAC at ¶ 1.)
ZLS is a transportation company that hires drivers to transport Uber users. (Id.
at ¶ 2.) Plaintiff drove a vehicle owned by ZLS at the time of the collision. (Id.
at ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiff sustained injuries when Sanchez drove on the wrong side
of the street, colliding head on with Plaintiff’s vehicle while intoxicated. (Id.
at ¶¶ 10-11.) The Uber Defendants are alleged to be employers, and that
Plaintiff was within the scope of his employment with the Uber Defendants at
the time of the collision because he had just dropped off a passenger on the
Uber Defendants’ behalf. (Id. at ¶¶ 7, 12.) Plaintiff was required to
drive ZLS' vehicle using an Uber Defendants’ account managed by ZLS. (Id. ¶
14.) Plaintiff alleges the Uber Defendants failed to carry workers’
compensation insurance and denied Plaintiff access to any workers’ compensation
coverage or benefits. (Id. at ¶¶ 13, 26.) Uber Defendants required
drivers like Plaintiff to follow multiple guidelines, including those related
to vehicle safety, cleanliness, and payment. (Id. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff was
not allowed to independently negotiate prices with customers provided through
ZLS and Uber Defendants’ Uber application. (Id. ¶ 16.) In March 2020,
despite a visible warning of a faulty airbag system in Plaintiff’s vehicle, ZLS
and Uber Defendants refused to inspect the warning and advised Plaintiff to
ignore it. (Id. ¶ 17.) ZLS and Uber Defendants were aware that Uber
drivers, including Plaintiff, were involved in numerous collisions and at an
increased risk without proper car safety systems like emergency braking and
additional airbags. (SAC ¶ 18.) Defendant Employers failed to provide Plaintiff
with specialized training to protect himself and the public from the inherent
dangers of full-time driving. (SAC ¶ 19.) Plaintiff was not allowed to drive
for Uber Defendants until he physically went to the Uber facility, got approved
under the ZLS-controlled Uber account, and agreed to drive his own vehicle.
(SAC ¶ 20.)
            
1.     
First Cause of Action - Negligence
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligence are duty,
breach, causation, and damages.  (Orey
v. Superior Court (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 1241, 1255; Johnson v. Prasad
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 78.)  Those
who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise
ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an
unreasonable risk of harm. (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  
 
At the pleading stage, the Court will not consider the
merits of  ZLS’ contention that Sanchez
was the superseding cause of the accident, such that the incident was solely
caused by her. This is beyond the scope of the motion. In considering a motion
for judgment on the pleadings, courts consider whether properly pled factual
allegations, assumed to be true and liberally construed, are sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (Stone Street Capital, LLC v. Cal. State
Lottery Com'n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116; Fire Ins. Exchange v.
Sup. Ct. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 446, 452-53.) The Court also will not
consider the merits of ZLS’ claim that Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that he
was an employee of ZLS. The SAC alleges as such and for purposes of demurrer,
they will be taken as true. (SAC ¶ 7.) 
 
ZLS argues that significant discrepancies and incongruities
in Plaintiff’s allegations demonstrate that Sanchez, not ZLS, was responsible
for Plaintiff’s injuries. One major discrepancy exists between Paragraphs 13
and 15 of the complaint. In Paragraph 13, Plaintiff alleges that ZLS’s failure
to provide workers’ compensation caused his injuries. However, in Paragraph 15,
he claims that his injuries were sustained when Sanchez negligently drove on
the wrong side of the street, resulting in a head-on collision with Plaintiff’s
vehicle. This inconsistency suggests that if the injuries occurred at the
moment of the accident as described in Paragraph 15, the lack of workers’ compensation
coverage—which ZLS denies having a duty to provide—would have had no impact on
the causation of the injuries. Furthermore, in the First Cause of Action,
Plaintiff makes several allegations that ZLS failed to provide necessary safety
measures, such as readily available and economically reasonable avoidance
systems, proper maintenance of safety mechanisms like airbags, and defensive
driving training. (SAC ¶¶ 28-34.) However, Plaintiff does not contend that ZLS
had a duty to provide these measures. The only mention of “duty” is in
Paragraph 22, related to an allegation against Sanchez. This indicates that
Plaintiff was aware of the importance of alleging a duty for a negligence claim
but only attributed this duty to Sanchez, implying a tacit admission that the
duty violation was solely by Sanchez. 
 
The Court agrees with ZLS’s arguments and finds that the
allegations in the SAC fall short of pleading facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for negligence against the ZLS. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is
granted on this ground. In the case of either a demurrer or a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Virginia
G. v. ABC Unified School Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1852.) Plaintiff
has not opposed this motion and otherwise fails to demonstrate that there is a
reasonable possibility Plaintiff can cure the defect to state a cause of action.

 
Therefore, the motion is granted as to the first cause of
action without leave to amend.
            
2.     
Second Cause of Action - Negligence Per
Se
 
Negligence per se is not a separate cause of action from
negligence.  (Das v. Bank of America,
N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 737-38.) 
“The doctrine of negligence per se does not provide a private right of
action for violation of a statute. [Citation.]” Under the doctrine, “the
plaintiff ‘borrows' statutes to prove duty of care and standard of care.” (Id.)
 
ZLS argues that the Negligence Per Se claim is invalid for
several reasons. First, ZLS reiterates its earlier argument that Sanchez’s
criminal conduct serves as a superseding cause, which absolves ZLS of any
alleged negligence, whether negligent per se or otherwise, and makes Sanchez solely
liable. Second, ZLS contends that the Motion should be granted because
Negligence Per Se is not a standalone cause of action. Furthermore, the
doctrine does not provide a private right of action for the violation of a statute.
Instead, it operates to establish a presumption of negligence for which the
statute serves as evidence of an element of a preexisting common law cause of
action.
 
The Court agrees with ZLS that this is not a standalone
cause of action and Plaintiff provides no arguments to rebut this. “[T]he
doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, but creates an
evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action
for negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell Internat. Inc. (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 549, 555.) The Court notes that Plaintiff identifies California
Vehicle Code section 21650, however, Plaintiff fails to show how there is an
applicable standard of care that ZLS violated. Plaintiff does not identify any
statute that could possibly cure this defect. 
 
Therefore, the motion for judgment on the second cause of
action is granted without leave to amend.
 
 
 
3.     
Third Cause of Action - Negligent
Entrustment
 
To prevail on an action for negligent entrustment, a
plaintiff must prove as follows: (1) that the driver was negligent in operating
the vehicle; (2) that the defendant was the owner, lessor, or possessor of the
vehicle, (3) that the defendant knew or should have known that the driver was
incompetent or unfit to drive the vehicle, (4) that the defendant permitted the
driver to use the vehicle, and (5) that the driver's incompetence or unfitness
to drive was a substantial factor in causing harm to the plaintiff. (See
Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 863–64, 864
fn. 8, citing CACI No. 724.)
 
Here, the SAC alleges that Sanchez was incompetent and unfit
to drive the vehicle owned by Medina. There is no allegation that ZLS owned,
leased, or possessed the vehicle driven by Sanchez, and that ZLS permitted
Sanchez to drive Medina’s vehicle. It is apparent on the factual allegations
that there is no possibility of Plaintiff maintaining a negligent entrustment
cause of action against ZLS.
 
Accordingly, the motion for judgment on the third cause of
action is granted without leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 