 Case Number:  24TRCV01510    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 11, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      24TRCV01510
¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Nicholas Nelson and
Meghan Bailey v. Jazmin Ponce, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiffs, Nicholas Nelson and Meghan
Bailey 
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendants,
Jazmin Ponce and Jesus Ponce (No Opposition)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           Not Set.
¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Quash Defendants’ Subpoena for Plaintiff’s Records
                                                (2) Request for
Monetary Sanctions
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED in part. 
                                                (2) GRANTED in a
lowered amount to be determined at oral argument. The Court wonders why there
was no stipulation to the narrowing of the scope of the SDTs since it appears the
defense concurred with the ten-year periods and the areas of the body
limitations this motion sought
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
On
May 2, 2024, Plaintiff, Nicholas Nelson and Meghan Bailey (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Jazmin Ponce, Jesus Ponce,
and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Motor
Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence. The complaint is based on a
motor vehicle accident that allegedly took place when Defendants failed to
yield a left turn and proceeded into the intersection, directly into the
Plaintiffs’ vehicle. As a result of the incident, Plaintiffs note that they
sustained injury to their vehicle and person. 
 
On
August 12, 2024, Plaintiffs note that Defendants served a deposition subpoena
for production of business records through Unisource Discovery for any and all
records pertaining to Plaintiff for nine (9) families including Kaiser
Permanente Medical, Kaiser Permanente Billing/Insurance, Kaiser Permanente
Radiology, SimonMed Imaging Medical/Billing/Insurance, SimonMed Imaging
Radiology, Elite Sports Medicine Medical/Radiology, Elite Sports Medicine
Billing/Insurance, Aminian, MD Medical/Radiology, and Aminian, MD
Billing/Insurance. Plaintiffs argue that no only do the subpoenas request
records from a time far predating the subject incident, but they also request
any and all records pertaining to Plaintiff regardless of the reason Plaintiff
interacted with these facilities for an indefinite period. 
 
On
August 20, 2024, Plaintiffs note that their counsel sent a meet and confer
letter to Defendants and requested that the subpoena for medical records be
limited to ten (10) years before the date of the subject accident to the
present, and to the body parts claimed in this accident, as there is no
relevancy in obtaining “any and all records” of Plaintiff for an indefinite
period, including any and all times that preceded the incident. Plaintiffs
further note that they requested that the subpoenas for billing records be
limited to the date of the subject accident to the present, as there is no
relevancy in obtaining each and every billing record, especially those which
predate the subject incident. 
 
On
August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs note their counsel sent Defendants’ counsel email
correspondence to follow-up regarding the meet and confer letter sent to
Defendants’ counsel. On August 27, 2024, Plaintiffs note that Defendants’
counsel by email agreed to limit the subpoenas to the body parts affected by
the subject incident and to a ten-year period. That same day, Plaintiffs note
that their counsel sent a response agreeing to the ten-year period for
medical/radiology records, and then asked Defendants’ counsel if they would
agree to eliminate the subpoena for the insurance records entirely, and to
limit the subpoena for medical bills from the date of the incident to the
present. 
 
Again,
on September 11, 2024 and September 13, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel reached out
to Defendants’ counsel attempting to meet and confer as to their subpoenas but
note that no responses were provided. As of the date of the filing, Plaintiffs
contend that Defendants have still refused to limit the subpoenas to each of
the nine facilities. Thus, Plaintiffs have brought this motion requesting this
court quash and/or greatly narrow the scope of the subpoena, and to order
Defendants pay sanctions for the fees and costs associated in filing the
motion. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On September 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed this Motion to Quash. To date, no opposition brief has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿  
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a
subpoena when necessary. Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: “If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
note that the subpoena which Defendants issued on April 12, 2024 concern all
medical and billing records for Plaintiff, and more specifically request: 
 
Any and all itemized statements of
charges and billing... regardless of treatment dates…” and “Any and all
itemized statements of charges and billing… regardless of treatment dates;
including all health insurance information and claim forms; medical bills,
medical billing records, liens, explanation of benefits statements,
correspondence relating to billing, records showing write-offs of amounts
billed, and records of payment by insurance carriers, governmental entities
and/or any other person or entity
 
(Declaration
of Muhammad Ali, Esq. (“Ali Decl.”), ¶ 3, Exhibit 1.) 
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the subpoenas are wholly overbroad and not at all tailored to the
issues in the case at bar. Plaintiffs further argue that said production would
result in documents that are irrelevant to this matter and are protected by
Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy. 
 
This court
notes that the filing of a lawsuit may be deemed as a waiver of privacy as to
matters embraced by the action but notes that the scope of said privacy waiver “must
be narrowly rather than expansively construed.” (see Britt v. Superior Court
(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859.) Here, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ subpoenas
are overbroad and should be quashed, or in the alternative, limited to
post-date of loss and to Plaintiffs’ neck/cervical spine, lower back/lumbar and
lower extremities, thoracic spine, and head as anything outside of this
limitation is not relevant and not likely to lead to admissible evidence. The Court
agrees with the latter. 
 
As
there is no opposition to analyze, the court orders the subpoenas to be
modified in the following ways: (1) First, the subpoenas are to be modified to
the original agreement between the parties, including limiting the medical
records to only include the body parts claimed to be injured in this action,
and for the ten-year time period; (2) The billing and insurance records are to
be narrowed to bills and insurance coverage for records involving the relevant
body parts listed as injured in the case at bar, and should be narrowed in time
from the date of the incident to present. 
 
C.   
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs
have also requested monetary sanctions be imposed as against Defendants’
counsel Kimberly Maxwell in the amount of $3,295. This amount is based on Ali’s
declaration, noting that his hourly rate is $400, and the total amount of time
spent on this matter took him approximately seven (7) hours. (Ali Decl., ¶ 8.)
Further, Plaintiffs’ counsel notes that Plaintiff was required to file a first
filing in the amount of $435 and $60 for the filing fee for this motion, for a
total of $495. (Ali Decl., ¶ 9.) The Court notes that seven (7) hours is an
unreasonable amount of time to spend on this type of motion where there was no
opposition nor reply. The court also notes that Plaintiffs do not explain why
the first filing fee should be recoverable. As such, after discussion during
oral argument, the court notes that it will likely be awarding monetary
sanctions, but in a lesser amount. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’
Motion to Quash is GRANTED in part, to be narrowed in scope as instructed by
the Court above. Further, Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions is
tentatively GRANTED in a lesser amount to be determined during oral argument. 
¿¿ 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
give notice.
 