  Case Number:  22TRCV00993    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    October 11, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00993
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Gardena
Neighbors LLC v. WG Holdings SPC, LLC, et al. 
 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Bridgeland Resources LLC
f/k/a WG Holdings SPV, LLC 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Gardena Neighbors LLC
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Demurrer 
                                                (2) Motion to Strike prayer
for attorney’s fees
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) OVERRULED in part and
SUSTAINED in part.
                                                (2) GRANTED 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
October 20, 2022, Plaintiff, Gardena Neighbors LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant, WG Holdings SPV, LLC (f/k/a Bridgeland Resources
LLC) and DOES 1 through 100. On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Declaratory Relief; (2)
Breach of Lease; (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; (4) Ejectment; (5) Nuisance; and (6) Trespass. The FAC is based on the
alleged controversy between Plaintiff and Defendant where Plaintiff has alleged
that the oil and gas lease is now terminated because: (1) by its own terms
given that CalGEM reports are the well at issue is “Idle”; and (2) indefinite
leases are generally void under California Law and the underlying lease is an
indefinite lease Defendant contends that the oil and gas lease is still in
effect. 
 
            Now, Defendant files a demurrer and
motion to strike portions of the FAC.  
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On August 27, 2024, Defendant
filed a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC. On September 12,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief to the demurrer. On September 18,
2024, Defendant filed a reply brief as to the opposition to the demurrer. 
 
  
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            Along with its moving papers, Defendant filed a request
for judicial notice, requesting this Court take judicial notice of the
following: 
 
1.    
Exhibit A: A true and correct copy
of that Grant Deed dated April 19, 2022, and recorded on April 25, 2022, as
Instrument No. 20220445190, Official Records of Los Angeles County, by and
between Riverside Kaufman Fee LLC, as grantor, and Gardena Neighbors LLC, as
grantee, from the Official Records of Los Angeles County.
2.    
Exhibit B: A true and correct copy
of the History of Oil or Gas Well Kaufman 1, date stamped as received by the
State of California Department of Natural Resources Division of Oil and Gas on
September 9, 1949, from California Department of Conservation Geologic Energy
Management Division records.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request and takes judicial notice of
the above. 
 
¿III.
ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.    Demurrer 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of
action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain
if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A
demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims
renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is
supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
                                  
i.         
Standing 
 
Defendant argues that
the entire FAC fails as a matter of law because (i) all of the causes of action
are premised on the lease and/or its termination and Plaintiff lacks standing
to terminate or enforce the lease; (ii) Plaintiff failed to name a necessary
party to the action (the successor-in-interest to the original lessor); and
(iii) Plaintiff did not (and could not) allege that the lessor issued a default
notice as required by the lease before the lease could be terminated. 
 
Defendant argues,
correctly, that an owner of a surface estate lacks standing to terminate or
enforce the lease which pertains to a sub-surface mineral estate. (Callahan
v. Martin (1935) 3 Cal.2d 110, 122 [“Under the usual oil and gas lease, the
owner lessor transfers to his lessee his right to drill for and produce oil and
other substances”]; Wall v. Shell (1962) 209 Cal.App.2d 504, 513
[stating the owner of the “surface area” above a mineral estate “may
not…deprive the owner of the oil and mineral estate of his rights in the entire
parcel.”].) Defendant argues that judicially noticeable recorded documents,
including the Lease and Plaintiff’s Grant Deed, show that Plaintiff has neither
obtained the original Lessor’s interest in the royalties reserved through the
Lease nor acquired the Mineral Estate. Moreover, as noted by Defendants, the
Grant Deed also expressly states that Plaintiff took title “subject to any and
all leases, rights, covenants, easements, reservations and conditions of
record.” (RJN, Exhibit A, at 2.) Based on this, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff is a subsequent purchaser with knowledge of the lease and mineral
rights, and thus may be burdened in part, and in very rare cases perhaps in its
totality, by the reasonable exercise of the rights of the owner of the oil and
mineral estates. 
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff contends it has some right to enforce or terminate the Lease as the
owner of the Surface Estate. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-9, 25-26, 28-32, 34-39,
41-45, 47- 48, 56-61.) The Court disagrees with the defense argument because
Plaintiff’s claims are based on rights it claims to have from the Lease.
Although the Court understands that some of the causes of action added to the
FAC appear to be based in contract, and thus would be insufficient, the bases
of Plaintiff’s original claim is that because the lease has
terminated, Defendant is required to remove its equipment. Defendant’s moving
papers indicate that it is not aware of any California case that has allowed a
surface owner to terminate an oil and gas lease. However, Plaintiff’s FAC seems
to argue that, by its terms, the oil and gas lease has terminated on its own, and
thus, Plaintiff, as a property owner, has the right to request Defendant to
remove the equipment. 
 
As such, as far as standing goes, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s causes of action that suggest a right under the lease are SUSTAINED
on demurrer as Plaintiff is not a party to the lease; Plaintiff does not even
argue that it does in the opposition brief. Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant
also is not a party to the lease and also failed to update its operator
identification with CalGEM and the California Department of Conservation as
required under Public Resources Code Section 3721 does not aid Plaintiff’s
argument on the sufficiency of its pleadings. As such, the court SUSTAINS
demurrer as to the contract and implied covenant causes of action, without
leave to amend. 
 
However, the Court also OVERRULES demurrer based on
standing as to the declaratory relief, ejectment, nuisance, and trespass causes
of action as they are not based on rights acquired by contracting parties.
Whether the lease terminated on its own, and thus dispensed with Defendant’s
right to even be on the land, is sufficiently pled by the FAC and will require a
future motion to be determined after the benefit of discovery. 
 
                                 
ii.         
Notice of Default
 
Defendant asserts that
even if Plaintiff could enforce the Lease, the Lease specifies how it must be
terminated – something Plaintiff failed to allege that it complied with. Section
22 of the Lease requires the lessor to provide a notice of default before the
Lease can be terminated: 
 
Upon the violation
of any of the terms or conditions of this lease by the Lessee and the failure
to begin to remedy the same within sixty days after written notice from Lessor
so to do, then, at the option of the Lessor, this lease shall forthwith cease and
terminate […].
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff cannot make an allegation
that the lease was terminated after a default, notice of default, and/or
failure to cure default, because it is not a party to the Lease and has no
standing to invoke or enforce it, or to provide any notice pursuant to it, or
to terminate it. The Court agrees and Plaintiff does not argue that it or anyone
else gave a notice of default.  But that
does not preclude the termination of the lease by operation of law, without an
event of default.  The Court seeks oral argument
from Plaintiff if that it Plaintiff’s contention and if so, whether the
allegations of the FAC sufficiently so state.
 
                               
iii.         
Naming of Necessary
Parties 
 
Next, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s FAC fails because Plaintiff failed to name the parties who
succeeded to the royalty interest reserved by the original lessors through the
lease. The Court is perplexed by Defendant’s argument because the predecessors
in title would have passed on any rights they may have had upon sale or transfer
of their right, title, or interest. This ground for the Demurrer is overruled.
 
                               
iv.         
Uncertainty
 
Courts rarely sustain
demurrers on uncertainty alone unless the pleading is so uncertain that a
Defendant may not be able to understand what is being asserted against them.
The Court does not find that Plaintiff’s claims are so uncertain that Defendant
failed to understand the causes of action being asserted against it.
 
B.
Motion to Strike 
¿ Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v.
Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An
immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting
relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §
431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ 
 
Here, Defendants move to strike the following in
Plaintiff’s FAC: 
 
1.    
First Amended Complaint, page 7, line 11
(“Attorney’s fees”).
 
The
court also notes that no opposition brief, nor subsequent reply or notice of
non-opposition brief has been filed as to the Motion to Strike. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees should be stricken as the
FAC does not contain any cause of action that would entitle Plaintiff to
recover attorney’s fees authorized by law, contract, or statute.  Because the Court finds Plaintiff does not
have a right to enforce the contract, and because no statutory ground for attorney’s
fees has been alleged, the motion to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees is
GRANTED. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part as reflected above. Additionally,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 
¿¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
 