 Case Number:  23TRCV02563    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 11, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02563
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sadrack Ngue Ngue v.
Carmax Auto Superstores California, LLC 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Sadrack Ngue Ngue (In Pro Per)

 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Carmax Auto Superstores, Inc.,
successor-in-interest to Carmax Auto Superstores California, LLC (No
Opposition)
 
DISPOSED OF DATE:          August
26, 2024
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Vacate Judgment 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUED to
October 21, 2024, to enable Plaintiff to file a declaration under penalty of
perjury attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect
being claimed for his failure to have filed an amended complaint within the time
allowed by the Court, together with a proposed amended pleading that addresses the
problems detailed by the Court in the April 22, 2024 ruling on the motion for judgment
on the pleadings.  Without both of those things
being filed within 6 months of the April 22 ruling, the motion will be DENIED
                                                
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff, Sadrack Ngue
Ngue (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, CarMax Auto Superstores
California, LLC. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence;
(2) Endangering Life of Others; (3) Emotional Distress; (4) Insomnia; (5)
Shock; (6) Defective and Deceptive Mechanical Work; (7) Mechanical Fraud for
Scam; (8) Faulty Car; (9) Anxiety; and (10) Fraud. 
 
            On
February 20, 2024, Defendant, CarMax Auto Superstores, Inc.,
successor-in-interest to CarMax Auto Superstores California, LLC (“CarMax”)
filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. On April 22, 2024, this court
GRANTED that motion, and also granted Plaintiff forty-five (45) days leave to
amend. 
 
            However,
on August 26, 2024, after Plaintiff failed to file an amended complaint, as
ordered by the court at a previous hearing, this court ordered the entire case
dismissed without prejudice. The court’s minute order clarified that Plaintiff
may re-file a case against defendant as long as it was not barred by the
statute of limitations. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff has filed a Motion to Vacate Judgment seeking to place the case back
on this court’s active calendar. 
 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion
to Vacate this court’s August 26, 2024 order dismissing the entire case without
prejudice. To date, no opposition has been filed.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
The Court observes from
reading Plaintiff’s papers that his motion to the Court-ordered dismissal is
not stated to be on any legal grounds. As the Plaintiff is in pro per, the
court notes that a party may move to set aside or vacate a judgment pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). Under this statute, an application for relief must be
made no more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an
affidavit of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect
of the moving party or its attorney. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); English
v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)   Further, when seeking relief
from a failure to timely file an amended pleading, the moving papers must include
the proposed amended pleading that addresses the reasons the Court sustained
the demurrer with leave to amend previously.
 
The motion to vacate is made less
than six (6) months after the entry of dismissal on August 26, 2024. The court
also recognizes that – although not in a formal declaration – Plaintiff’s
moving papers seem to indicate that he is attesting to having mental health
issues. However, Plaintiff’s motion does not follow the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), as noted above. The 6-month period
is soon to expire, so the Court will continue the hearing to October 21, 2024
at 9:00 a.m., which is within the 6-month period, to allow Plaintiff to submit
a declaration or  affidavit, under
penalty of perjury, attesting to his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect
as to why he failed to file an amended complaint. Plaintiff must also identify the
statute and/or code providing a legal ground for his motion and Plaintiff must also
attach a copy of the proposed amended complaint that addresses the defects
described by the Court in its April 22, 2024 ruling.  

 
 
 