  Case Number:  23SMCV06082    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Mendoza
v. Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, et al., Case No. 23SMCV06082
Hearing
date May 3, 2024
Defendants
I.A.T.S.E. Local 80 and Local 80 IASTE Building Corporation’s Demurrer 
Defendant
Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation’s Demurrer 
Plaintiff sued
defendants Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation (“TCFF”), I.A.T.S.E. Local 80
Local 80 IASTE Building Corporation, Hernandez and Farrands alleging: (1) discrimination
(FEHA); (2) hostile work environment (FEHA); (3) retaliation (FEHA); (4) failure
to prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation (FEHA); (5) retaliation
(Labor Code §1102.5); (6) retaliation (Labor Code §98.6); (7) retaliation
(Labor Code §6310; (8) wrongful termination; (9) sexual battery; (10) gender violence;
(11) negligent supervision and retention; and (12) intentional infliction of emotion
distress. 
Plaintiff
was employed by TCFF in craft services and was a union member of Local 80.
Compl. ¶¶ 2, 15. Hernandez, her supervisor, instructed her to come to a
restaurant to pick up her check. Id. at ¶18(a). Hernandez was with
Ferrand, another supervisor, and an unknown individual, and gestured to plaintiff
to have a beer he ordered. Id. at ¶18(b). Plaintiff woke up in
Hernandez’s home and alleges these individuals drugged her; Hernandez sexually
assaulted her. Id. at ¶18(c). Plaintiff reported the assault to police
and disclosed the incident to Conover, who works with Local 80, who suggested
not to mention the assault further. Id. at ¶18(e). Plaintiff spoke with
Davis, Conover’s supervisor, who apologized but did not take further steps. Id.  
Following
the assault, Hernandez failed to provide plaintiff with her work schedule, and
she was effectively terminated. Id. at ¶19. The work environment became
hostile because the assailants were her supervisors. Id. Plaintiff
alleges TCFF, Local 80 and Local 80 IATSE Building Corporation were agents of
one another. Id. at ¶¶1, 6, 10, 18(e).
Local 80 and
Local 80 IASTE Building Corporation (“Local 80 Defendants”) demur. TCFF demurs.

Request
for Judicial Notice
Local 80
Defendants request judicial notice of (1) the Collective Bargaining Agreement
between IATSE Local 80 and the Association of Motion Picture and Television
Producers (AMPTP), with an effective date of 2009 to 2012; (2) Articles of
Incorporation for the IATSE Local 80 Building Corporation; (3) IRS Tax
Exemption Letter for IATSE Local 80 Building Corporation; (4) California
Franchise Tax Exemption Letter for the IATSE Local 80 Building Corporation; and
(5) Administrative Complaint and Right to Sue Letter Issued by the California
Department of Fair Employment and Housing. Granted pursuant to Evidence Code
§452(c), (h).
TCFF
requests judicial notice of the California Civil Rights Department (“CRD”)
Notice to Complainant’s Attorney, Notice of Filing of Discrimination Complaint,
Notice of Case Closure and Right to Sue, and Complaint of Employment
Discrimination Before the State of California Civil Rights Department Under the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. Granted pursuant to Evidence Code
§452(c), (h).
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of: (1) the Report of Assembly Committee on Judiciary,
AB 2777 (May 3, 2022); (2) the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Background
Information Request for AB; and (3) the Complaint of Heather Shepherd, filed in
the matter of Heather Shepherd v. Blue Sky Sutiod, Inc., et al., Case
No. Case 3:12-cv-00103-CSH (D. Conn. 2012). Granted as to items 1 and 2
pursuant to Evidence Code §452(c), as to the existence of item 3 pursuant to
Evidence Code §452(d).
Claim
Presentation Requirement re: Plaintiff’s FEHA Claims (1-4 COAs)
Local 80
Defendants and TCFF each demur to the FEHA claims (1-4), arguing plaintiff
failed to timely submit an administrative complaint with the DFEH within one
year. They argue CCP §340.16 does not extend plaintiff’s ability to exhaust
administrative remedies.  
Plaintiff
argues the legislative purpose of Sec. 340.16 was to revive claims barred by
the statute of limitations and this revives her FEHA claims.
Prior to
enactment of Assembly Bill No. 9 that amended
Gov. Code §12960 in 2019, former Gov. Code §12960 required a DFEH
complaint alleging FEHA violations to be filed “one year.” With the alleged
assault and termination in January 2012, plaintiff was to file an
administrative complaint by January 2013. 
Plaintiff’s reliance on Section 340.16 is misplaced; this only applies to
civil actions, not administrative complaints. Before plaintiff could bring a
civil action under FEHA, she was required to exhaust administrative remedies
within the deadline. See Yurick v. Super. Ct. (1989) 209 Cal. App. 3d
1116, 1121. 
Plaintiff argues this is contrary to the Legislature’s intent, but AB 9 is
silent on this issue. Despite going into effect a year after Section 340.16 was
enacted, amended Gov. Code §12960 did not include language that expired
administrative claims could be revived. Even when the Legislature amended Gov.
Code §12960 to extend the deadline to three years, the legislative digest and
section 3 of the bill indicate the “act shall not be interpreted to revive
lapsed claims.” 2019 Cal. Legis. Serv. Ch. 709 (A.B. 9). There is no basis
to conclude the Legislature’s intent in enacting Section 340.16 was to revive previously
expired administrative claims. 
Plaintiff alleges she timely filed her administrative complaint (Compl. ¶
25); it was filed December 22, 2023. See Local 80 Defendants’ RJN, Exh.
E; TCFF’s RJN, Exh. A. Plaintiff failed to timely file the administrative
complaint. Miller v. United Airlines, Inc. (1985) 174 Cal. App. 3d 878,
890. Plaintiff failed to abide exhaust her administrative remedies within one
year following the alleged incident; the FEHA claims are barred. Sustained
without leave to amend. 
 
 
 
Demurrer to the Remaining Claims (5-12 COAs)
Section
340.16(a) states “In any civil action for recovery of damages suffered as a
result of sexual assault, where the assault occurred on or after the
plaintiff’s 18th birthday, the time for commencement of the action shall be the
later of the following: (1) Within 10 years from the date of the last act,
attempted act, or assault with the intent to commit an act, of sexual assault
against the plaintiff;” or “(2) Within three years from the date the plaintiff
discovers or reasonably should have discovered that an injury or illness
resulted from an act, attempted act, or assault with the intent to commit an
act, of sexual assault against the plaintiff.” The three or ten-year statute of
limitations applies to any action “is based upon conduct that occurred on or
after January 1, 2009, and is commenced on or after January 1, 2019, that would
have been barred solely because the applicable statute of limitations has or
had expired.” Id.(b)(3).
Under the
statute, a plaintiff who alleges the entities legally responsible for the damages
arising out of the sexual assault engaged in or attempted to cover up previous
instances of sexual assault by the alleged perpetrator may have otherwise
time-barred claims revived. Code Civ. Proc. §340.16(e). Based on this statutory
framework and because plaintiff filed her complaint more than ten years after
the alleged assault, the complaint must sufficiently alleged facts in
accordance with Section 340.16(e) to revive claims against defendants. Local 80
Defendants and TCFF separately argue plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts
to revive her claims against them. 
A.    Local 80 Defendants
Local 80
Defendants argue the complaint fails to allege they were legally responsible
for the alleged harm or that they covered up a previous instance of sexual
assault. As to the former argument, they contend the complaint fails to
sufficient alleged an agency relationship between them and the remaining
defendants.
Plaintiff
contends an agency relationship exists because Local 80 ratified the actions of
its members, Farrands and Hernandez, based on Davis and Conover’s conduct.
Plaintiff asserts Local 80 aided and abetted Fox and its employees. Plaintiff
asserts Local 80 is an employer and agent of Fox by acting as staffing agency
and liable under respondeat superior.
There are no
allegations that Farrands and Hernandez are members of Local 80. There are no
allegations that Conover’s statement was binding on Local 80 Defendants. It is
alleged his supervisor apologized to plaintiff. The suggestion that Local 80
Defendants are agents of TCFF is contradicted by allegations in the complaint.
Local 80 Defendants are alleged to be labor organizations. See Compl.
¶¶4(c), 8. This creates a reasonable inference that it is Local 80 Defendants’
interest to promote the benefit of its members, not of their counterparty TFCC.

Further
allegations would need to be alleged to support Plaintiff’s theory that Local
80 Defendant were merely agents of TCFF. Respondeat superior has not been
sufficiently alleged because Local 80 was not the assailants’ employer.
Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to establish liability. See Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 112. 
Plaintiff’s
allegations that Local 80 Defendants engaged in a cover up are conclusory
because there are no allegations as to how their actions constitutes a cover
up. A “cover up” is defined as “a concerted effort to hide evidence relating to
a sexual assault that incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents
information relating to a sexual assault from becoming public or being
disclosed to the plaintiff, including, but not limited to, the use of
nondisclosure agreements or confidentiality agreements.” Code Civ. Proc.
§340.16(e)(4)(A). Conover’s one alleged statement is insufficient to suggest
the Local 80 Defendants engaged in a concerted effort to incentivize a prior
victim to remain silent. Sustained with leave to amend. 
B.     TCFF
TCFF argues the
allegations are insufficient to trigger revival under Section 340.16(e). TCFF
argues the complaint fails to allege it was legally responsible for the alleged
harm, and there was no causal connection to establish liability. 
Plaintiff
alleges a casual nexus between her protected activity and the retaliatory
conduct. Plaintiff allegedly resisted the assault and reported the crime the
following day. See Compl. ¶¶ 18(c)-(d). Plaintiff was terminated a week later.
Id. at ¶ 19. TCFF’s demurrer to the fifth through eighth causes of
action is overruled on this ground. 
As to the
intentional torts alleged, the complaint sufficiently alleges a theory of
liability pursuant to respondeat superior. TCFF contends the alleged assault
perpetrated by Hernandez and Ferrands substantially deviated from their
employment duties, so TCFF should not be liable for personally motivated
misconduct. TCFF relies on Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Mem’l. Hosp. (1995)
12 Cal. 4th 291, 296-297, Myers v. Trendwest Resorts (2007) 148 Cal. App
4th 1403, 1426 and similar cases. These cases were decided at summary judgment,
not at the pleading stage. 
At this
point, plaintiff alleges respondeat superior liability. The court must take as
true all allegations on demurrer. The complaint alleges the assault arose out
of plaintiff’s employment because it is alleged plaintiff was lured to the bar to
pick up her check. See Compl. ¶ 18(b). Plaintiff’s supervisors Hernandez
and Ferrands are alleged to have abused job-created authority.  See Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles
(1991) 54 Cal. 3d 202, 209. TCFF’s demurrer to the ninth, tenth, and
twelfth causes of action are overruled on this ground. 
As to the
eleventh cause of action for negligent supervision and retention, TCFF argues
the complaint fails to allege facts that the sexual assault was foreseeable. The
pleadings fail to allege TCFF knew or had reason to know of Hernandez and
Farrands would commit sexual abuse. Sustained. 
TCFF argues
the complaint fails to allege it engaged in a cover up or attempt to cover up a
previous instance or allegations of sexual assault. The complaint relies on a
conclusory allegation, stating TCFF “engaged in a cover up or attempted a cover
up of a previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged
perpetrator of such abuse.” Even though a plaintiff may allege facts with less
particularity when “when it appears that defendant has superior knowledge of
the facts, so long as the pleading gives notice of the issues sufficient to
enable preparation of a defense,” this does not excuse use of conclusory
allegations because it does not provide TCFF with sufficient notice to prepare
a defense. See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-550.
Sustained. 
Accordingly,
because the complaint does not allege sufficient facts to trigger revival under
Section 340.16(e), TCFF’s demurrer to the fifth through twelfth causes of
action are sustained with leave to amend. 
Dismissal
re: Local 80 IATSE Building Corporation
Local 80
IATSE Building Corporation separately demurs, arguing it is not a properly
named defendant because it “is not a labor organization, does not have any
members, does not provide any representational services, and has no contractual
or other relationships whatsoever with Fox or the individual defendants.”
Plaintiff argues the assertion that Local 80 IATSE Building Corporation is not
a labor organization is inappropriate at the pleading stage. This would require
a factual finding, beyond the scope of the demurrer. Overruled. 
 
Defendants
I.A.T.S.E. Local 80 and Local 80 IASTE Building Corporation’s Demurrer SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the first through fourth causes of action and
SUTAINTED with leave to amend as to the fifth through twelve causes of action. 
Defendant TCFF’s
demurrer SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the first through fourth causes
of action and SUTAINTED with leave to amend as to the fifth through twelve
causes of action.
Plaintiff to
file an amended complaint within 20 days. 