 Case Number:  22STCV00661    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 18, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: July 2, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Maritza Padilla, individually and as
Successor in Interest to Leonel Chavez, et al. v. State of California
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV00661            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants State of California (sued as California
Highway Patrol) and Officer Daniel Castaneda
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Jesus
Chavez and Maritza Padilla, individually and as Successors in Interest to
Leonel Chavez
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/06/22: Complaint filed.
·        
01/28/22: Carlos Posada named as Doe Defendant.
·        
05/19/22: Daniel Castaneda named as Doe
Defendant.
·        
06/07/23: Carlos Posada dismissed with
prejudice. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a civil rights and wrongful death action. On September 28, 2021,
officers of the California Highway Patrol responded to a traffic collision in
which the decedent was involved at the intersection of Medford and Indiana
Streets in Los Angeles. Plaintiffs allege that CHP officers attempted to detain
the decedent, who was unarmed, without just cause. Plaintiffs further allege
that when the decedent attempted to break free, the officers tased the
decedent, shot him, and denied him medical attention, causing his death. 
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment, or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication of all causes of
action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED IN PART with respect to the third,
fifth, and sixth causes of action and with respect to punitive damages, and
otherwise DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            Defendants
move for summary judgment. As the Court has found that Defendants are not
entitled to summary adjudication of each cause of action for the reasons
explained below, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Defendants
move in the alternative for summary adjudication of each cause of action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiffs
raise several objections to the Declaration of Daniel Castaneda in support of
the motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED as hearsay.
(Evid. Code § 1200(a).) However, the statements are admissible to show their
effect on Defendant Castaneda with respect to the reasonableness of his use of
force. 
 
Objection No. 2: SUSTAINED as
hearsay. (Evid. Code § 1200(a).) However, the statements are admissible to show
their effect on Defendant Castaneda with respect to the reasonableness of his
use of force. 
 
Objection No. 3: SUSTAINED as
improper speculation. (Evid. Code § 702.)
 
Objection No. 4: OVERRULED. The
statement describing what the witness indicated is not hearsay nor speculation
because it is not offered to prove its truth but to explain Defendant
Castaneda’s conduct. 
 
Objection No. 5: OVERRULED. Does
not lack foundation and is not speculative. 
 
Objection No. 6: OVERRULED. Not
an improper opinion, lay or otherwise. 
 
Objection No. 7: OVERRULED. Does
not lack foundation and is not speculative.
 
Objection No. 8: OVERRULED. Does
not lack foundation and is not speculative.
 
Objection No. 9: OVERRULED. Not
an improper opinion, lay or otherwise.
 
Objection No. 10: OVERRULED.
Objection goes to weight, not admissibility. To the extent Defendant
Castaneda’s testimony is contradicted by video evidence, that contradiction may
be justification for denial of summary judgment or adjudication on the basis
that there is a dispute of material fact. 
 
Objection No. 11: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation and is not speculative.
 
Objection No. 12: OVERRULED.
Objection goes to weight, not admissibility. To the extent Defendant
Castaneda’s testimony is contradicted by video evidence, that contradiction may
be justification for denial of summary judgment or adjudication on the basis
that there is a dispute of material fact. 
 
Objection No. 13: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation and is not speculative.
 
            Plaintiffs
also raise several objections to the Declaration of Jennifer Sanchez in support
of the motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows: 
 
Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED as
hearsay. (Evid. Code § 1200(a).) However, the statements are admissible to show
their effect on Defendant Castaneda with respect to the reasonableness of his
use of force. 
 
Objection No. 2: OVERRULED.
Objection goes to weight, not admissibility. To the extent Officer Sanchez’s
testimony is contradicted by video evidence, that contradiction may be
justification for denial of summary judgment or adjudication on the basis that
there is a dispute of material fact. 
 
Objection No. 3: OVERRULED. The
instructions given by Defendant Castaneda are not statements offered for their
truth.
 
Objection No. 4: OVERRULED.
Objection goes to weight, not admissibility. To the extent Officer Sanchez’s
testimony is contradicted by video evidence, that contradiction may be
justification for denial of summary judgment or adjudication on the basis that
there is a dispute of material fact. 
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendants
raise several evidentiary objections to Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 4 (Objection No.
1); the expert declaration of Roger Clark attached as Exhibit 6 (Nos. 2 through
30) and Exhibit 8 (No. 31.) The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED as
inadmissible hearsay. Plaintiff’s counsel is not competent to lay the necessary
foundation for this exhibit. (See Evid. Code § 1271.) 
 
Objection No. 2: SUSTAINED as
improper speculation. (Evid. Code §§ 210, 350-352.)
 
Objection No. 3: SUSTAINED as
lacking foundation, speculation, and improper conclusion. (Evid. Code §§ 210,
350-352.)
 
Objection No. 4: SUSTAINED as
lacking foundation for expert opinion. The expert is not qualified to speak to
Officer Sanchez’s mental state. (Evid. Code § 801, 803.) 
 
Objection Nos. 5-10: SUSTAINED
as inadmissible hearsay. These portions of the report incorporate a separate
document without establishing the underlying facts necessary to lay a
foundation for these statements. (See Evid. Code § 1271.)
 
Objection Nos. 11-23: OVERRULED.
Not speculation, does not lack foundation or personal knowledge. Not
conclusions of ultimate fact, merely opinion on whether the officers’ conduct
breached the standard of care. 
 
Objection No. 24: SUSTAINED as
improper speculation with respect to “lack of adequate training, and a direct
reflection of CHP’s inadequate supervision, and training policies.”
 
Objection No. 25: SUSTAINED as
an improper legal conclusion.
 
Objection No. 26-28: SUSTAINED
as speculation. (Evid. Code §§ 210, 350-352.)
 
Objection No. 29-30: SUSTAINED
as an improper legal conclusion.
 
Objection No. 31: SUSTAINED as
inadmissible hearsay. Plaintiff’s counsel is not competent to lay the necessary
foundation for this exhibit. (See Evid. Code § 1271.) 
 
Undisputed Facts
 
            At the
outset, the Court finds it appropriate to recite the undisputed facts regarding
the incident which gave rise to this case. Plaintiffs assert causes of action
for assault, battery, false arrest, negligence, and violation of the Bane Act
against the State of California and Officer Daniel Castaneda of the California
Highway Patrol for the death of Leonel Chavez during a CHP response to a
traffic collision. 
 
            On
September 28, 2021, Defendant Castaneda and Officer Jennifer Sanchez were
dispatched to the scene of a traffic accident involving the decedent. (Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement of Disputed Fact No. 1.) Defendant Castaneda spoke to a
witness upon arriving at the scene who identified the decedent. (SSDF Nos.
3-4.) After driving down the street, the officers exited the vehicle and
approached the decedent, who was in the middle of the street near a crashed
vehicle. (SSDF Nos. 9-10.) 
 
            The parties
agree that Defendant Castaneda identified himself as a peace officer and
instructed decedent to stop walking away but disagree on the exact order of events
in this respect. (SSDF Nos. 12-14.) Regardless, the decedent then turned around
and raised his hands above his head. (SSDF No. 15.) Defendant Castaneda
approached the decedent and placed his hands on the decedent’s own. (SSDF No.
18.) The decedent spun around to face Defendant Castaneda, and, after a brief
struggle, the two men separated. (SSDF Nos. 18, 21.) This struggle is the first
major point of contention between the parties. 
 
            After
Defendant Castaneda and decedent Chavez separated, both Castaneda and Officer
Sanchez drew their sidearms and pointed them at the decedent. (SSDF No. 24.) Defendant
Castaneda began backing away from the decedent, who kept walking toward the
Defendant. (SSDF 27-29.) As Defendant Castaneda backed away, he began to
approach a fence and dirt area off the side of the road. (SSDF No. 30.) While
backing away and approaching this area, Defendant Castaneda drew his Taser and
pointed it at Chavez as the decedent continued to approach. (SSDF Nos. 33-34.) 
 
            From this
point, the order of events is heavily disputed, forming the second major point
of contention. What is not, however, is that Defendant Castaneda discharged his
Taser at nearly the same time that the decedent began to quicken his pace
toward the Defendant. (SSDF Nos. 37-38.) Defendant Castaneda then dropped the
Taser and fired his sidearm at Chavez repeatedly in a continuous cycle. (SSDF
No. 47.) Seven of the Defendant’s shots hit the decedent, three or four of
which were fatal within seconds to minutes. (SSDF Nos. 62-63.) Approximately
ten seconds elapsed from Defendant Castaneda touching the decedent to the fatal
shooting. (SSDF No. 49.) 
 
            Defendant
Castaneda took up a position at his patrol car and reported shots fired. (SSDF
Nos. 50-51.) The decedent, by this point, lay face down on the ground with his hands
under him. (SSDF No. 52.) The officers commanded Chavez to put his arms out to
the side so they could provide medical care. (SSDF No. 54.) When the decedent
did not respond to this command, the officers devised a tactical approach plan,
secured Chavez with handcuffs, and attempted to provide medical care. (SSDF
Nos. 56-58.) Medical care was not initiated until about 5 minutes after the
shooting. (SSDF No. 59.) The sufficiency of the care provided to Chavez is the
third major point of contention between the parties. 
 
The entire incident was captured on
video, without sound, from the dashcam of the officers’ patrol vehicle.
(Defendants’ Exh. I, Plaintiffs’ Exh. 1.) 
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Negligence
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action for negligence. 
 
            “Actionable
negligence involves a legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty,
and the breach as the … legal cause of the resulting injury.” (United States
Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 594.) Plaintiffs
set forth two theories of negligence liability against the Defendants: first,
that Defendant Castaneda did not use reasonable force in the execution of his
duties, and, second, that Defendants fell below the standard of care in
execution of their duties by failing to provide prompt medical care to the
decedent. 
 
1.     
Use of Deadly Force
 
Defendants first argue that
Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their theory that Defendant Castaneda did not use
reasonable force. 
 
“[P]eace officers have a duty to
act reasonably when using deadly force.” (Hayes v. Cnty. of San Diego
(2013) 57 Cal.4th 622, 629.) Penal Code section 835a sets out the parameters
for an officer’s use of deadly force: 
 
In determining
whether deadly force is necessary, officers shall evaluate each situation in
light of the particular circumstances of each case and shall use other
available resources and techniques if reasonably safe and feasible to an
objectively reasonable officer. [¶]... [T]he decision by a peace officer to use
force shall be evaluated from the perspective of a reasonable officer in the
same situation, based on the totality of the circumstances known to or
perceived by the officer at the time, rather than with the benefit of
hindsight, and that the totality of the circumstances shall account for
occasions when officers may be forced to make quick judgments about using
force. 
 
(Pen. Code, § 835a(a).) “[A] peace officer is justified in
using deadly force upon another person only when the officer reasonably
believes, based on the totality of the circumstances, that such force is
necessary ... [t]o defend against an imminent threat of death or serious bodily
injury to the officer or to another person.” (Pen. Code, § 835a(c)(1).) “A
threat of death or serious bodily injury is ‘imminent’ when, based on the
totality of the circumstances, a reasonable officer in the same situation would
believe that a person has the present ability, opportunity, and apparent intent
to immediately cause death or serious bodily injury to the peace officer or
another person.” (Pen. Code § 835a(e)(2).) “‘Totality of the circumstances’
means all facts known to the peace officer at the time, including the conduct
of the officer and the subject leading up to the use of deadly force.” (Id. at
subd. (e)(3).)
 
            Defendants
contend that Castaneda’s use of deadly force was objectively reasonable under
the totality of the circumstances. According to Defendants, witnesses
identified decedent Chavez and described him acting in a manner which suggested
he was armed. (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts Nos. 4-8.)
Defendants claim that when Defendant Castaneda approached the decedent to pat him
down for weapons, the decedent spun around and tried to remove Castaneda’s
weapon from its holster. (SSUMF Nos. 17-19.) As Castaneda backed away and
raised his Taser, Defendants contend that Chavez quickened his pace toward
Castaneda, and that Castaneda saw “something black that could have been a
weapon” come out of the decedent’s pocket as he fired the Taser. (SSUMF Nos.
38-41.) Defendants argue that Castaneda had good cause to fear imminent injury
or death because (a) witness statements led him to believe Chavez was armed;
(b) Chavez had attempted to remove Castaneda’s pistol from its holster; (c) Castaneda
saw an object that could have been a weapon emerge from Chavez’s pocket; and
(d) Chavez was rapidly approaching Castaneda. According to Defendants, the
totality of these circumstances known or perceived by Defendant Castaneda justified
his use of deadly force. 
 
There are several issues with
Defendants’ narrative. First, although Defendant Castaneda and Officer
Sanchez’s testimony is competent evidence of what transpired during the initial
struggle between Chavez and Castaneda, the video footage is markedly less clear
as the decedent’s hands are only briefly visible. (Defendants’ Exh. I,
15:33:38-15:33:42; Exh. J, 15:33:38-15:33:42; Exh. K, 15:33:38-15:33:42; Exh.
L, frames 3436- 3550; Exh. M, frames 3436-3550; Exh. N.) Second, no black
object is visible in the video footage to support the contention that there was
an object in Chavez’s pocket. (Defendants’ Exh. I, 15:33:49-15:33:51; Exh. J,
15:33:49- 15:33:51; Exh. K, 15:33:49-15:33:51; Exh. L, frames 3436-3767; Exh.
M, frames 3436- 3767.) Third, it is extremely ambiguous whether the decedent
began running at Castaneda first, whether he began running after the Taser was
fired, or whether he began running after Castaneda began firing his pistol, as,
even on video, all three occur within the span of a second and are very close
together. (Defendants’ Exh. I, 15:33:49-15:33:52; Exh. J, 15:33:49- 15:33:52;
Exh. K, 15:33:49-15:33:52; Exh. L, frames 3436-3767; Exh. M, frames 3436-
3767.) 
 
Construed in the light most
favorable to Plaintiffs, as required in the context of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the video footage—which is much more
ambiguous—contradicts the categorical assertions by the officers. Thus,
Defendants’ own evidence discloses a dispute of material facts with respect to
what the decedent attempted to do in his struggle with Defendant Castaneda, whether
there was anything in his pocket at all, and whether the decedent actually
charged Defendant Castaneda before the lethal shots were fired. These disputes
go directly to whether the totality of the circumstances actually perceived by
Defendant Castaneda justified the use of deadly force. Because this evidence
discloses triable issues of fact, the Court finds that Defendants have not
carried their burden to demonstrate that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their
negligence claims on this basis. 
 
2.     
Failure to Render Medical Care
 
Defendants also argue that
Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their theory that Defendant Castaneda negligently
failed to provide medical care. 
 
Under section 1799.106 of the
Health and Safety Code, a police officer “who renders emergency medical
services at the scene of an emergency shall only be liable in civil damages for
acts or omissions performed in a grossly negligent manner or acts or omissions
not performed in good faith.” (Health & Saf. Code § 1799.106.) “[G]ross
negligence” is “want of even scant care” or “an extreme departure from the
ordinary standard of conduct.” (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 754.) Gross negligence is “a failure to exercise even
that care which a careless person would use.” (Decker v. City of Imperial
Beach (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 349, 358.) A public entity need only “exercise
some care” to avoid a finding of gross negligence. (Id. at 361.)  
 
            Defendants
contend that Castaneda could not have acted with gross negligence because he
provided Chavez with medical care, thereby acting with “some care,” and because
the five-minute delay in providing medical care does not amount to gross
negligence. (SSUMF Nos. 52-59.) Defendants rely on Decker for the
position that the provision of medical care constitutes “some care,” and on City
of Santa Cruz v. Superior Court (Magana) for the position that a
five-minute delay is not gross negligence. (Decker, supra, 209
Cal.App.3d at 361; City of Santa Cruz v. Superior Court (Magana) (1988)
198 Cal.App.3d 999, 1007.) Close reading of these cases reveals substantial
factual differences from the instant matter. Both opinions concern the alleged
failure of lifeguards and rescue personnel to provide adequate care in
responding to an accidental injury. In Decker, the Court of Appeal reasoned
that rescue personnel were not grossly negligent in their attempt to
rescue an endangered surfer because the rescuers arrived promptly at the scene
and continuously attempted to rescue the decedent, without success. (Decker,
supra, 209 Cal.App.3d at 361.) In Santa Cruz, the Court of Appeal
found that there could be no gross negligence when a lifeguard failed to
respond to an injury in their assigned area for 20 minutes. (Santa Cruz,
supra, 198 Cal.App.3d at 1002.) Those facts bear little factual
similarity to this case, where the injury was not merely an accident to which
the Defendants were responding, but rather the direct result of the intentional
use of lethal force by Defendant Castaneda. These authorities do not stand for
the proposition that a delay of five minutes in treating multiple gunshot
wounds inflicted by a police officer cannot constitute “gross negligence” as a
matter of law. Defendants have therefore failed to carry their burden with
respect to this argument. 
 
            Defendants
also argue that there can be no negligence liability for the failure to render
medical care because Plaintiff cannot show causation. Defendants argue that
there was nothing that could have been done to save Chavez because several of
his wounds were fatal in “seconds to minutes.” (SSUMF No. 64.) However, close
reading of the deposition of Dr. Brice Hunt, who performed the autopsy, as
presented by Defendants reveals that Dr. Hunt only testified that Chavez’s
wounds “had the potential to kill someone pretty quickly.” (Defendants’ Exh. P.
p.16:15-17.) This testimony does not state—and therefore is not evidence
showing—that Chavez was beyond help with or without prompt medical care. Defendants
have thus likewise failed to carry their burden to show Plaintiffs cannot
prevail for lack of causation. 
 
As a final matter, Defendants argue
in reply that because Plaintiff Maritza Padilla withdrew her claim for
negligence arising from the failure to provide medical care, that withdrawal
should bar Plaintiff Jesus Chavez’s corresponding claim. However, Defendants
concede that no authority supports their position. The Court therefore rejects
this argument. 
 
            Accordingly,
as each of Defendants’ arguments with respect to this cause of action have
failed, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the fourth cause of
action is DENIED. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Negligence Per Se
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action for negligence per
se on the grounds that this cause of action is without merit and, separately,
because negligence per se is not a distinct cause of action. 
 
            With
respect to Defendants’ arguments on the merits, the Court finds that there are
triable issues of fact which preclude summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’
negligence claims, as discussed above. However, as Defendants state, negligence
per se is not a distinct cause of action for negligence, but “merely codifies
the rule that a presumption of negligence arises from the violation of a
statute which was enacted to protect a class of persons of which the plaintiff
is a member against the type of harm that the plaintiff suffered as a result of
the violation.” (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Ctr. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1256, 1285.) The Court therefore finds that summary adjudication should be
granted as to this cause of action on the basis that it is duplicative of the
fourth cause of action. This ruling does not foreclose Plaintiffs’ claims for
negligence based on the underlying facts associated with this cause of action,
as they may be asserted under the fourth cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the fifth cause of action is
GRANTED.
 
First and Second Causes of Action: Assault & Battery
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the first and second causes of action for
assault and battery on the grounds that these causes of action are without
merit. As the parties agree that these claims survive or fail on the same
basis, the Court will address them together. 
 
            Claims for
assault and battery by a police officer are subject to the same standard as claims
for unreasonable use of force in violation of the Fourth Amendment under 42
U.S. Code section 1983. (Edson v. City of Anaheim (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
1269, 1274-75.) Thus, to establish liability for assault and battery by a peace
officer, a plaintiff must demonstrate that the officer’s use of force was
objectively unreasonable based on the facts and circumstances confronting the
officer. (Brown v. Ransweiler (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 516, 527.) Unlike
the “totality of the circumstances” test employed in the negligence context, this
test focuses “more narrowly on the moment when deadly force is used.” (Hayes,
supra, 57 Cal.4th at 639, citing Billington v. Smith (9th Cir. 2022)
292 F.3d 1177, 1190; see Plumhoff v. Rickard (2013) 572 U.S. 765, 777.) 
Defendants rely on the same facts
and evidence offered with respect to the negligence claims to argue that
probable cause existed to believe Chavez posed a significant threat of death or
serious injury. As the Court finds that this evidence discloses triable issues
of fact that go directly to whether Defendant Castaneda had justification to
use deadly force, this argument is unavailing. Moreover, focusing on the moment
the shots were fired and excluding all else, as required for these claims, is
of no help to Defendants. The video evidence, construed in the light most
favorable to Plaintiffs, does not clearly show any object emerging from
Chavez’s pocket. (Defendants’ Exh. I, 15:33:49-15:33:51; Exh. J, 15:33:49-
15:33:51; Exh. K, 15:33:49-15:33:51; Exh. L, frames 3436-3767; Exh. M, frames
3436- 3767.)  Further, Chavez appears to
run directly at Castaneda either contemporaneous with or just after the first
shot is fired. (Defendants’ Exh. I, 15:33:49-15:33:52; Exh. J, 15:33:49-
15:33:52; Exh. K, 15:33:49-15:33:52; Exh. L, frames 3436-3767; Exh. M, frames
3436- 3767.) As these ambiguities must be construed against Defendants on
summary adjudication, the evidence offered by Defendants does not demonstrate
that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on these claims. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication of the first cause of action is DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication of the second cause of action is DENIED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: False Imprisonment
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the third cause of action for false
imprisonment. Plaintiff Padilla states that she dismisses her claim against
Defendants on this basis. Plaintiff Chavez, however, maintains his claim on the
basis that Defendant Castaneda acted wrongfully by initially stopping decedent
Chavez and attempting to handcuff him. 
 
            “False
imprisonment involves the intentional confinement of another against the
person’s will. The elements are (1) nonconsensual, intentional confinement of a
person, (2) without lawful privilege, (3) for an appreciable period of time,
however brief.” (Bocanegra v. Jakubowski (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 848, 855
[internal citations omitted].) 
 
            Defendants
argue that Castaneda had adequate justification to detain Chavez to search him
for weapons based on witness statements. “A police officer may detain a suspect
for questioning when the circumstances indicate to a reasonable man in a like
position that such a course of action is called for in the proper discharge of
the officer’s duties.” (Dawkins v. City of Los Angeles (1978) 22 Cal.3d
126, 133.) The standard for reasonable suspicion is less stringent than
probable cause. (People v. Turner (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 151, 160-61.) Defendants
contend that information gained from witness interviews suggesting that Chavez
attempted to leave the scene of the accident and behaved in a manner suggesting
he possessed a weapon (SSUMF Nos. 3-8) provided reasonable suspicion to detain
Chavez. This evidence, which identifies witness statements that suggested
criminal activity was in progress, is sufficient to carry Defendants’ burden on
this cause of action to show that Plaintiffs cannot prevail because Castaneda
had a reasonable suspicion. 
 
            Plaintiff
Chavez, in opposition, asserts that Defendant Castaneda’s suspicion was not
reasonable because no weapon was seen, Chavez made no threats, and was
initially compliant with Defendant Castaneda’s commands. Plaintiff’s contention
that the facts are disputed is not actually supported by the evidence.
Plaintiffs admit that Chavez moved his vehicle away from the impact and stopped
after witnesses started to take photos. (SSDF No. 6.) Plaintiffs also admit
that a witness informed Defendant Castaneda that Chavez raised his sweater,
which suggests the existence of a weapon even though one was not seen. (SSDF
No. 8.) These statements are sufficient to provide an officer with reasonable
suspicion to investigate and determine their veracity. Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate a triable issue of fact with respect to this cause of action
because Plaintiff has not shown that Castaneda lacked authority to temporarily
detain Chavez. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the third cause of action is
GRANTED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Bane Act
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action for violation of the
Bane Act.  
 
            A party may
bring an action under the Bane Act for damages against another person who
interferes or attempts to interfere, by threat, intimidation, or coercion, with
any individual’s exercise or enjoyment of rights secured by the Constitutions
or laws of the Untied States or California. (Civ. Code § 52.1(b)-(c).) The act
of interference with a right “must itself be deliberate or spiteful.” (Shoyoye
v. Cnty. of L.A. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 947, 960.) To prevail on this
claim, a party must prove (1) intentional interference or attempted
interference with a state or federal constitutional or legal right, and (2) the
attempted interference is by threat, intimidation, or coercion. (Allen v.
City of Sacramento (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 41, 67.) 
 
            There is a
split of authority on what must be proven to demonstrate coercion. Under one
theory, set forth by Shoyoye and its progeny, there must be a showing of
coercion “independent from the coercion inherent in the constitutional
violation itself.” (Cty. Inmate Tel. Serv. Cases (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th
354, 369 citing Shoyoye, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at 959.) The alternative
theory, set out in Cornell v. City and County of San Francisco, disagrees
that a “threat, intimidation, or coercion” must also be “transactionally
‘independent’ from” the violation of a right. (Cornell v. City and County of
San Francisco (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 766, 796-97.) Under this theory, the
plaintiff must instead show that the defendant had “a specific intent to
violate the right.” (Id. at 801-802.) As our Supreme Court has not
addressed this issue, this Court is free to choose which authority to follow. (Auto
Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.)
 
            Although
Defendants prefer Shoyoye, they contend that under either approach,
Plaintiffs’ claims under the Bane Act fail. Under the Shoyoye standard,
Defendants argue that there is no coercive conduct independent of Castaneda’s
use of force, which they view as the basis for any potential violation of
Chavez’s rights. Alternatively, Defendants argue that under Cornell’s
specific intent standard, the facts of the case demonstrate the absence of a
specific intent to violate Chavez’s rights. (See generally SSUMF Nos. 6-49.) In
opposition, Plaintiff Chavez argues that reckless disregard of the decedent’s
rights is sufficient to meet the specific intent standard of Cornell. However,
the authority cited by Plaintiff, Whitaker v. Tesla Motors, Inc., (2021)
985 F.3d 1173, has absolutely no bearing on this point. Moreover, neither
Plaintiff addresses which standard the Court should apply, nor do they cite any
evidence showing either a specific intent to violate Chavez’s rights or an
independent act of coercion. 
 
            The Court
need not reach the issue of whether Shoyoye or Cornell is the
better approach, because, under either standard, Defendants have produced ample
evidence that Plaintiffs cannot make the corresponding additional showing, and
Plaintiffs offer no evidence to create a triable issue of fact on this point. Although
there are triable issues of fact as to whether Defendant Castaneda violated Chavez’s
rights, there is no evidence suggesting that Castaneda undertook any act,
separate or not, for the express purpose of violating those rights.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the sixth cause of action is
GRANTED.
 
Punitive Damages
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. 
 
To maintain a claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must establish by clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant acted with fraud, malice, or oppression. (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
Punitive damages are not available against a government entity. (Gov. Code §
818.) Punitive damages are also not available in wrongful death actions. (Boeken
v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 796.) For punitive
damages claims in the summary judgment context, the Court “view[s] the evidence
presented through the prism of the substantive clear and convincing evidentiary
burden.” (Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158.) “Malice”
means conduct “intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.”
(Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) “[D]espicable’ is a powerful term that refers to
circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’” (College Hosp.
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
cannot demonstrate malice or oppression because the facts show that Defendant
Castaneda did not engage in despicable conduct and did not act with the intent
to injure Chavez. (SSUMF Nos. 6-59.) In opposition, Plaintiffs argue, without
citation to specific evidence, that a jury could find that Castaneda engaged in
malicious or oppressive conduct. The Court is not persuaded. As with
Plaintiffs’ Bane Act claim, nothing in the record demonstrates a specific
intent by Castaneda to injure Chavez, notwithstanding triable issues of fact
regarding the assault and battery claims. Moreover, Plaintiffs do not show any
conduct that can be construed as “base, vile, or contemptible.” The Court
therefore finds that Defendants have shown that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on
their punitive damages claims, and Plaintiffs have not demonstrated a triable
issue of fact in this respect.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the punitive damages claim is
GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED IN PART with respect to the third,
fifth, and sixth causes of action and with respect to punitive damages, and
otherwise DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 18, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 