  Case Number:  21VECV01059    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Chelato
  Chacon,
 
         Plaintiff,
   v.
 
 
 Zeyad Elalami, et
  al. 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
      21VECV01059    
    107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
(1) Demurrer
(2) Motion to
  Strike 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
Defendants Zeyad
Elalami and Luxor Funding Group demur
to Plaintiff Chelato Chacon’s first amended complaint. This court overrules Defendants’ demurrer. Defendants move to
strike punitive damages and certain lines from the first amended complaint.
This court denies the motion to strike as to the punitive damages and the sentence
alleging reports to government agencies and grants the motion to strike as to
the phrase “and sexual advances of Defendants,” without leave to amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
This is a landlord-tenant case. The following factual
allegations are drawn from the Complaint (as defined below). 
 

Factual 

 
In November 2014, plaintiff Chelato Chacon
(“Plaintiff”) entered a lease agreement (the “Lease”) regarding a certain
residential real property (the “Property”) with its prior owner (the “Original
Owner”). (Complaint p. 2.) Between then and 2021, Plaintiff and the Original
Owner made verbal alterations to the Lease, including rent increases; Plaintiff
made timely rent payments, performed under the Lease, and made repairs to the
Property without any rent offsets; and many habitability issues arose at the Property,
including pest infestations and problems with heating. (Id. at pp. 2–3.)  
 
On January 20, 2021, Plaintiff learned that defendant
Zeyad Elalami (“Elalami”) and the corporation in which Elalami holds multiple
officer positions, defendant Luxor Funding Group, Inc. (“Luxor” and, together
with Elalami, “Defendants”), had acquired the Property from the Original Owner,
making Defendants the new owners of the Property. (Complaint pp. 1, 3.) The
same day, Elalami informed Plaintiff that he was immediately increasing
Plaintiff’s monthly rent by approximately 47.14% although Elalami did not provide
Plaintiff with proper notice of any rent increase. (Complaint p. 3.) Plaintiff
protested that such a rent increase violated rent control and stabilization
laws governing the Property and continued to timely pay rent at his previous
rate. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Elalami accepted such payment for the months of
February 2021, March 2021, and April 2021, but thereafter returned Plaintiff’s
attempted payments to him. (Ibid.) Elalami made verbal and written implied
threats to damage Plaintiff’s FICO credit score. (Id. at p. 3.) On February 1,
2021, Elalami attempted to issue Plaintiff a three-day notice to pay or quit
via text message, alleging that Plaintiff had failed to make timely rent
payments. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Elalami told Plaintiff that he has “no lease for
the Property” and Plaintiff received notice that an unlawful detainer action
had been filed. (Id. at p. 4.)  
 

Procedural 

 
On August 11,
2021, Plaintiff initiated this action by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”). On
September 20, 2021, Defendants answered the Complaint. On April 8, 2024, this
court granted Plaintiff’s leave to amend the Complaint and file a first amended
complaint (the “FAC”), which Plaintiff filed on May 8, 2024.
 
On May 20, 2024,
Defendants filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and a motion to strike (the
“Motion”). On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to
the Demurrer and the Motion, to which Plaintiff replied on June 18, 2024.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed “within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿412.20, subd. (a)(3).)¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176.)¿ 
 
 
Plaintiff has not filed a Proof of Service of the FAC in this
case. We therefore cannot determine if the Demurrer and the Motion are timely
brought. The Demurrer, the Motion, the Oppositions, and both replies were
timely filed as against the hearing date.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a)
and §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good
faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike, respectively, to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer or the
motion to strike. Each section requires that such meet and confer be done “in
person or by telephone.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§¿430.1, subd. (a), 435.5,
subd. (a).)¿ 
 
Defendants submit with the Demurrer and the Motion a declaration by their
counsel that he and Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred by phone but were
unable to resolve the issues raised by the Demurrer and the Motion. (Aly Decl.
¶¶ 2–3.) We are therefore satisfied that this requirement has been met.
 

Page Limits

 
Per California Rules of Court rule 3.1113(d), “no opening or responding
memorandum may exceed 15 pages,” which limit “does not include the caption
page, the notice of motion and motion, exhibits, declarations, attachments, the
table of contents, the table of authorities, or the proof of service.”
 
Although Plaintiff alleges that the Demurrer exceeds the permitted page
limits, the Demurrer’s memorandum of points and authorities is 15 pages in
length and therefore meets the page limit requirement.
 
III. DISCUSSION
 

The Demurrer

 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10, subd. (a)(1).) Under this
standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather
than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 550.)¿¿ 
 
“If the party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed
fails to object to the pleading, either by demurrer or answer, that party is
deemed to have waived the objection unless it is an objection that the court
has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the
pleading or an objection that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.80, subd. (a).)
 
When Defendants answered the Complaint, they waived objections to the
causes of action pled therein other than any objections related to a lack of
subject-matter jurisdiction or objections that the Complaint did not state
facts sufficient to constitute the causes of action. Defendants argue that the
FAC significantly changes each cause of action from the Complaint by adding
factual allegations such that they cannot be said to have waived any objections
to the causes of action in the FAC. (Demurrer pp. 16–17.) However, we disagree
that the new factual allegations, which we previously held to “not change the
nature of the legal obligations being brought against Defendants” (4/8/24
Minute Order p. 8), significantly change the causes of action in the FAC that
were previously brought in the Complaint. We therefore find that Defendants
waived objections to the first seven causes of action in the FAC, except for
their objections raised in the Demurrer that the FAC fails to plead facts
sufficient to state any of its causes of action. We therefore do not address
any grounds on which the Demurrer is brought against the first seven causes of
action except the Demurrer’s objection that the FAC fails to plead facts
sufficient to state those causes of action.
 
1.     
The First Cause of Action
for Breach of Contract
 
“A cause of action
for breach of contract requires pleading of a contract, plaintiff's performance
or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's breach and damage to plaintiff
resulting therefrom.” (Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1031.) 
 
The FAC pleads
that Plaintiff entered the Lease with the Original Owner. (FAC ¶ 6.) It
also alleges that “Plaintiff performed each and every one of the obligations he
had under the terms of the Lease, except to the extent that such obligations
were waived or were otherwise not enforceable as a result of Defendant’s prior
material breaches.” (Id. at ¶ 32.) Finally, it alleges that “Defendants
breached the material terms of the Lease” and that “[e]ach of the breaches
resulted in Plaintiff suffering both direct and consequential damages.” (Id. at
¶¶ 33, 35.) Thus, the FAC alleges each of the elements of a cause of
action for breach of contract.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the first cause of action for breach of
contract.
 
2.     
The Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Warranty
of Habitability
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability are the
existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises'
habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time
after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a
reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages.” (Peviani
v. Arbors at California Oaks Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874,
891.)
 
The FAC alleges
that “Plaintiff [] notif[ied] Defendants, both verbally and in writing, of
habitability issues on the Property, such as leaks, holes on the ceiling and
floors that allowed for insets and vermin to enter the Property, faulty
toilets, and bathrooms, etc.” (FAC ¶ 25.) The FAC further alleges that
“[t]o the date of the drafting of the [Complaint], habitability issues remain
on the Property that have yet to be addressed and remediated” and “[a]s a
direct and proximate result of Defendants’ failure to correct the defective
conditions, Plaintiff suffered property damage and economic loss as special
damages.” (Id. at ¶ 26, 43.) Thus, the FAC alleges each of the elements of
a cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the second cause of action for breach of the
implied warranty of habitability.
 
3.     
The Third Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant
of Quiet Enjoyment
 
The elements of a
cause of action for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment are (1) a lease
agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2) the absence of language contrary
to the implied covenant that tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession;
(3) an act or omission of the landlord, or anyone claiming under the landlord,
which substantially interferes with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the
premises for purposes contemplated; and (4) an applicable remedy. (See Andrews
v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588–91.)
 
The FAC pleads
that Plaintiff entered the Lease with the Original Owner and that the Lease
continues with Defendants, in which the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment was
“inherent.” (FAC ¶¶ 6, 45.) The FAC alleges that “[a]s a result of the
issues Plaintiff repaired and paid for over the years (and the
construction/remediation relating thereto), the harassment to pay an illicit
rent increase, and threats to tarnish Plaintiff’s credit score, Defendants
breached the covenant of quiet enjoyment of Plaintiff” and that “[a]s a result
of the breach of the Lease, Plaintiff has been damaged in a sum the exact
amount of which has not yet been ascertained.” (Id. at ¶¶ 46, 48.) Thus,
the FAC alleges each of the elements of a cause of action for breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the third cause of action for breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment.
 
4.     
The Fourth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress are “(1) defendant engaged in extreme and
outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a
civilized community) with the intent to cause, or with reckless disregard to
the probability of causing, emotional distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff
suffered extreme or severe emotional distress.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273.) “Outrageous conduct is conduct that is intentional
or reckless and so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized
community. The defendant's conduct must be directed to the plaintiff, but
malicious or evil purpose is not essential to liability. Whether conduct is
outrageous is usually a question of fact.” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National
Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 203, citing Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001.) “‘Recklessness’¿means¿the
deliberate disregard of the high degree of probability that an injury will
occur.¿It rises to the level of a conscious choice of a course of action with
knowledge of the serious danger to others.” (Samantha B. v. Aurora Vista Del
Mar, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 85, 99.) “In order to avoid a¿demurrer, the
plaintiff must allege with ‘great specificity’ the acts which he or she
believes are so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.” (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc.
(2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.)  
 
In Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d
903, 912–13, 922, a residential tenant stated a claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress against her landlord sufficient to overcome a
demurrer when she alleged that the landlord was aware of substandard
habitability conditions, including leaking sewage, defective electrical wiring,
and a “heavy” cockroach infestation; that these conditions had caused the
county health department to issue a notice to vacate and demolish the property;
and that the landlord failed to correct the conditions after a reasonable time.
The court in Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, at 922, stated that
whether “the landlord’s acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe
mental distress” “presents a factual question [so that] it cannot be said as a
matter of law that appellant has not stated a cause of action.”  
 
Here, the FAC
alleges that Plaintiff is a residential tenant of Defendants’, that the
Property contained “habitability issues,” and that although “Defendants had
actual or constructive knowledge of each defective condition,” they “failed to
correct them.” (FAC ¶¶ 12, 14, 37, 39.) The FAC also alleges that
Defendants threatened Plaintiff and attempted to retaliatorily evict him. (Id.
at ¶¶ 17–23.) The FAC alleges that “[t]hrough th[is] outrageous conduct [],
Defendants, and each of them, acted with the intent to cause, or with reckless
disregard for the probability of causing Plaintiff to suffer severe emotional
distress,” that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of Defendants' actions, by
intentionally failing to inform [Plaintiff] of the issues and the illegal rent
increase and subsequent retaliation following threats of eviction, or
responding to Plaintiff’s contention relating to the substantial rent increase
in a timely manner, or providing Plaintiff with alternative living arrangements
during the repairs, even after knowing that these conditions and defects
effects were felt in the Property, and by intentionally refusing to take action
and intentionally retaliating against Plaintiff trying to force him to
involuntarily vacate, the Defendants’ action and inaction with regards to these
issues directly and proximately led to the injuries of Plaintiff,” and that “Plaintiff
has suffered and will continue to suffer pain and suffering, and extreme and
severe mental anguish and emotional distress.” (Id. at ¶¶ 50–51, 53.) Like
in Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 912–13, 922, this
adequately states a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress to
overcome a demurrer.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the fourth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.
 
5.     
The Fifth Cause of Action for Retaliatory Eviction
 
The elements of a
cause of action for retaliatory eviction are (1) lessor acts to, or threatens
to, bring an action to evict the tenant (2) because the tenant exercised a
cognizable right, including (a) having complained to an appropriate agency
regarding the habitability of a dwelling or (b) having exercised any right
under the chapter (see Civil Code § 1940, et seq.). (Feldman v. 1100
Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1493; Civil Code § 1942.5,
subd. (a), (c).) In Schweiger v. Superior Court (1970) 3 Cal.3d 507,
517, the Supreme Court held that the landlord of a month-to-month tenancy was
not entitled to raise a tenant's rent, bring an action for unlawful detainer, and
obtain the tenant's eviction in retaliation for tenant's exercise of statutory
right to obtain the repair of two broken windows and a broken back door that
could not be locked.
 
The FAC brings the
retaliatory eviction cause of action “pursuant to both common law and statute.”
(FAC ¶ 59.) The FAC alleges that Plaintiff made complaints to Defendants “regarding
the state of the Property, and in fact had to make necessary repairs and paid
for costs/supplies out of Plaintiff’s own pocket. Further, Plaintiff made these
complaints to other parties and government agencies, causing Defendants to
incur costs and leading Defendants to actually seek information whether false
or not from any party to try and evict Plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶ 55.) The FAC
also alleges, “[b]ecause of these legal complaints, Defendants retaliated
against Plaintiff by serving a Notice to Pay or Quit and/or Cure or Quit after
raising the rent almost nine times over what is allowable under relevant
California law” and “[a]fter Plaintiff’s complaints about habitability issues
on the Property and Plaintiff’s assertion of his rights on the Property, such
as Plaintiff’s requests to be free from unlawful rent increases and unlawful
harassment and retaliation, Defendant, using an agent of theirs called Jenny Casco,
filed an unlawful detainer against Plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶¶ 23, 56.) Thus,
the FAC alleges that after Plaintiff complained to Defendants and government
agencies about the Property’s habitability, Defendants retaliated by serving
Plaintiff with a three-day pay-or-quit notice and by filing an unlawful
detainer action against him, both of which are actions done to evict a tenant.
The FAC thereby adequately states a claim for retaliatory eviction.
 
Although
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim for retaliatory eviction must fail
because “Plaintiff has remained in the property for over six years and has not
been evicted,” actual complete eviction is not a required element of this cause
of action. (Demurrer p. 21.) So long as Defendants acted to, or threatened to,
bring an action to evict Plaintiff, he may bring a cause of action for
retaliatory eviction. Defendants also argue that “[t]he reference or reports to
‘government agencies’ is unsupported by any fact in the FAC.” (Ibid.) However,
this allegation itself is an alleged fact, although not in the “background
facts” section of the FAC, and is also not the only grounds on which Plaintiff
alleges he asserted his rights and for which he alleges Defendants retaliated
against him.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the fifth cause of action for retaliatory
eviction.
 
6.     
The Sixth Cause of Action for Declaratory Judgment
 
The FAC states,
“Plaintiff seeks a declaration pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
§1060 that the February 1, 2021 [notice to pay or quit] is illegal, invalid and
unenforceable.” 
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 1060 provides, “[a]ny person interested under a
written instrument… or under a contract, or who desires a declaration of his or
her rights or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or
upon property… may, in cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights
and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action or
cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her rights
and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract. He or
she may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or with other
relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these rights or duties,
whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time. The
declaration may be either affirmative or negative in form and effect, and the
declaration shall have the force of a final judgment. The declaration may be
had before there has been any breach of the obligation in respect to which said
declaration is sought.” 
 
In Meyer v.
Sprint Spectrum L.P. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 634, 647, the California Supreme
Court explained, “[t]he purpose of a declaratory judgment is to serve
some practical end in quieting or stabilizing an uncertain or disputed jural
relation. Another purpose is to liquidate doubts with respect to uncertainties
or controversies which might otherwise result in subsequent litigation. One
test of the right to institute proceedings for declaratory judgment
is the necessity of present adjudication as a guide for plaintiff's future
conduct in order to preserve his legal rights.” (Internal citations
omitted.)
 
Defendants argue
that “Plaintiff has no standing to seek declaratory relief concerning a
hypothetical unlawful detainer action that is not being litigated” and that
“[s]hould such an action arise, Plaintiff can mount his defense.” (Demurrer p.
22.) However, an unlawful detainer action does not have to have already been
filed in order for an “actual controversy” to exist. As the Court in Meyer
v. Sprint Spectrum L.P., supra, 45 Cal.4th 634 at 647 explained, all
that is needed is the existence of “doubts with respect to uncertainties or
controversies which might otherwise result in subsequent litigation,” which
exists here given that the notice in issue in a pay-or-quit notice that
includes a disputed rent amount. We find that an actual controversy with
respect to the validity and legality of the notice in question exists.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the sixth cause of action for declaratory
judgment.
 
7.     
The Seventh Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief
 
Plaintiff seeks “a
permanent injunction against Defendants to enjoin them from retaliating against
Plaintiff by illegal rent increases and/or evicting Plaintiff from the Property
or attempting the same without a hearing on the merits and Court order allowing
the same.” (FAC ¶ 69.)
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff has failed “to meet his burden on either of these prongs [that
courts consider when considering whether to issue a preliminary injunction]”
and consequently that “injunctive relief must be denied.” (Demurrer pp. 22–23.)
Defendants also argue that “[t]he FAC fails to specify the injunctive relief
sought nor identify any interim harm that Plaintiff may suffer. As explained
above, Plaintiff has adequate remedies at law. The FAC fails to allege
impending injury that could only be averted by injunction.” (Id. at p. 23.)
However, Plaintiff is not required to meet his burden of showing that
injunctive relief should be granted at this stage. He must only show that he
may seek injunctive relief. The FAC specifies that Plaintiff seeks “a permanent
injunction against Defendants to enjoin them from retaliating against Plaintiff
by illegal rent increases and/or evicting Plaintiff from the Property or
attempting the same without a hearing on the merits and Court order allowing
the same.” He may seek such.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the seventh cause of action for injunctive
relief.
 
8.     
The Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of Los
Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance
 
The Los Angeles
Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance went into effect on August 6, 2021, a few days
before the Complaint was filed, and permits a tenant to bring civil proceedings
against a landlord who engages in any “knowing and willful course of conduct
directed at a specific tenant or tenants that causes detriment and harm, and
that serves no lawful purpose.” (L.A. Municipal Code Ord. No. 187109, available
at https://housing2.lacity.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/Tenant-Anti-Harassment-Ordinance-TAHO-187109-8.6.21.pdf.) Examples of
harassment for purposes of the Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance
include (1) “[f]ailing to perform and timely complete necessary repairs and
maintenance required by Federal, State, County, or local housing, health, or
safety laws,” (2) “[a]buse of the right of access into a rental unit as
established and limited by California Civil Code Section 1954, including
entering or photographing portions of a rental unit that are beyond the scope
of a lawful entry or inspection,” and (3) “[t]hreatening or taking action to
terminate any tenancy including service of any notice to quit or other eviction
notice or bringing action to recover possession of a rental unit based on facts
which the landlord has no reasonable cause to believe to be true.” (Ibid.)
 
The FAC alleges
that “[after August 10, 2021], Plaintiff continued to notify Defendants, both
verbally and in writing, of habitability issues on the Property, such as leaks,
holes on the ceiling and floors that allowed for insets and vermin to enter the
Property, faulty toilets, and bathrooms, etc.,” that “[t]o the date of the
drafting of the [complaint], habitability issues remain on the Property that
have yet to be addressed and remediated,” that “[o]n August 3, 2023, on the
afternoon of [] Elalami’s deposition on this matter, [] Elalami engaged in
further retaliation and harassment, serving on Plaintiff an unlawful and
inaccurate notice to pay rent or quit, a 24 hour notice to enter Property
without specifying an adequate time or reason for entry, a form requesting
responses to questions that should be sought through the party’s written
discovery, and an untimely notice of change of ownership which fails to detail
how Plaintiff could pay rent, to who rent can be paid, and through what method
Plaintiff could pay rent,” and that “[o]n or about August 4, 2023, Defendant
arrived to Plaintiff’s Property, unannounced, demanding entry into Property.
Despite Plaintiff’s objections and Plaintiff not being home at that time, []
Elalami entered the Property with a pest control technician who was there to
attempt to finally remediate the rats and insects entering the Property through
large holes on the ceiling and on the floor under the sink.” (FAC
¶¶ 25–26, 28–29.) Thus, the FAC alleges that after the Los Angeles Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance became effective, Defendants failed to perform or
timely complete needed repairs and maintenance, entered the Property beyond the
scope of a lawful entry or inspection, and served a notice to quit despite
there being no reasonable grounds to do so. This sufficiently pleads harassment
as defined by the Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance that took place
after it went into effect.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the eighth cause of action for violations of
the Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance.
 

The Motion to
     Strike

 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd.
(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Id. at § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.
at § 437.)¿“[J]udges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to
strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)¿ 
 
1.     
Punitive Damages
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to
attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.¿In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a
motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to
strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clausen
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations
omitted).) “Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or
conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged
as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to
recovery of¿punitive¿damages.” (Monge v. Superior Court (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 503, 510.) 
 
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages
“[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice….” 
(Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In order to justify an award of punitive¿damages, the
defendant must be guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. He must act with the
intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 452, 462 (internal citations omitted).) “A claim for exemplary damage
may be supported by pleading that the wrong was committed willfully or with a
design to injure.” (Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1055.) “[M]alice in fact is required rather
than implied malice.¿However, malice does not require actual intent to
harm.¿Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences.” (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (internal citations
omitted).) “In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the
plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his¿conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 895–96.)  
 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not
be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And, “conclusory characterization of defendant's
conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of “oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,” within the
meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves,
supra, at 166; Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, supra, at 1193 [“In addition to the
requirement that the operative complaint set forth the elements as stated
in¿section 3294, it must include¿specific¿factual allegations showing that
defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for¿punitive¿damages.”].) 
 
“[P]unitive¿damages¿may
be awarded in an action by a¿residential¿tenant¿based on the landlord's
interference with peaceful possession. Punitive¿damages¿likewise are
recoverable for… the infliction of emotional distress.” (Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th 1004 at
1055, internal citations omitted.) In Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra,
101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 920, a residential tenant “pleaded sufficient facts to
support her prayer for exemplary damages” when her complaint both “alleged that
defendant had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions” and “alleged that
defendants ‘In maintaining said nuisance,… acted with full knowledge of the
consequences thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their
conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.’” 
 
Defendants argue
that “Plaintiff’s factual allegations fall drastically short of the requisite
level of malice required for punitive damages” because “[t]he FAC contains no
specific facts regarding any outrageous conduct by the Defendants.” (Motion p.
7.) However, the FAC pleads specific factual allegations about habitability
issues, Defendants’ interference with Plaintiff’s peaceful possession of the
Property—for example, the FAC includes specific allegations including date
about instances when Elalami entered the Property without proper notice to
Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s permission—and threats or improper eviction attempts
that Defendants made to Plaintiff. The FAC also alleges that Defendants “had
actual or constructive knowledge of each defective condition and failed to
correct them” but rather responded in a “malicious and reckless manner.” (FAC
¶¶ 39, 51.) Following Stoiber
v. Honeychuck, supra,
101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 920, these allegations are sufficient to maintain a claim
for punitive damages against a landlord who has interfered with a tenant’s
peaceful possession or intentionally inflicted emotional distress, as the FAC
alleges Defendants have done to Plaintiff.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES the Motion to strike punitive
damages.
 
2.     
“…And Sexual Advances of Defendants…”
 
Defendants move to
strike the phrase “and sexual advances of Defendants” from paragraph 52 of the
FAC. (Motion p. 2.) Plaintiff describes this phrase as a “scrivener’s error”
and agrees that it should be struck. (Opposition p. 4.)
 
Accordingly, this
court GRANTS the Motion to strike the phrase “and sexual advances of
Defendants” from paragraph 52 of the FAC. Because Parties agreed to the
striking of this phrase, this court does not grant leave to amend.
 
3.     
Sentence Alleging Complaints to Government Agencies
 
Defendants move to
strike a sentence in paragraph 55 of the FAC which reads, “[f]urther, Plaintiff
made these complaints to other parties and government agencies, causing
Defendants to incur costs and leading Defendants to actually seek information
whether false or not from any party to try and evict Plaintiff.” (Motion p. 2.)
Defendant argues the sentence appears to be an “outlier[] from the remainder of
the FAC and lack[s] any reference or support from the other allegations.” (Id.
at p. 5.) Defendant suggests the sentence is “inadvertently inserted
boilerplate language” as “Plaintiff does not elsewhere contend that such
reports occurred.” (Id. at p. 7.) Plaintiff does not concede that the sentence
alleging complaints to government agencies was inserted in the FAC by mistake
and argues that it was “properly pled.” (Opposition p. 4.) That an allegation
is not repeated or referred to elsewhere in the pleading is not a ground on
which a motion to strike may be granted.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion to strike the sentence alleging complaints to
government agencies in paragraph 55 of the FAC.
 
 
Dated:             June
25, 2024                                                  _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court