 Case Number:  22STCV11950    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 8, 2022, Plaintiff Kimberley Marie Elkerton (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Brandon Lamahr Frison (“Frison”), California Coach
Orange, Inc. (“Coach”), and Does 1-100 for negligence, intentional infliction
of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligence
per se, assault and battery, and negligent hiring, retention and supervision.
On January 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants
Bahaeddin Fawzi Hassan (“Bahaeddin Hassan”) as Doe 1 and Southside Towing
(“Southside”) as Doe 2.  On June 14,
2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Hadley Towing
Equipment, Inc. (“Hadley”) as Doe 3. 
On
July 5, 2023, Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and Southside filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Frison, Mark Fawzi Hassan (“Mark
Hassan”), Hadley, All American Towing Inland Empire, LLC (“All American”), Park
Avenue Realty Investments, Inc. (“Park Avenue”), and Roes 1-10 for total
equitable indemnity, contribution, equitable apportionment, and declaratory relief. 
On
July 25, 2023, Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and Southside filed an amended answer
to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
September 6, 2023, the clerk entered Hadley’s default on the cross-complaint. 
On
September 11, 2023, Frison and All American filed (1) an answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint, (2) an answer to the cross-complaint of Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and
Southside, and (3) a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Laila Aaen
(“Aaen”) and Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, apportionment of comparative
negligence, and declaration relief. 
On
September 13, 2023, the clerk entered the defaults of Mark Hassan and Park
Avenue. 
On
March 19, 2024, the Court sustained Aaen’s demurrer to the cross-complaint
filed by Frison and All American with 30 days leave to amend.  
On
April 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Jacob O. Partiyeli, Esq., filed a motion
to be relieved as counsel to be heard on May 23, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 8, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Jacob O. Partiyeli, Esq., asks to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the
notice is served on the client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section
1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that
either: 
“(A)   The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or 
“(B)   The
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved. 
“(2)  If the
notice is served on the client by electronic service under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating that the electronic service address is the client's current
electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053 forms, including a
declaration stating that there has been a breakdown in communication which
prevents counsel from representing Plaintiff.  Counsel served Plaintiff by mail at her last
known address, which counsel confirmed by telephone. Counsel submitted proof of
service on all parties, including Plaintiff. The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Jacob O. Partiyeli, Esq.’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff
Kimberley Marie Elkerton filed on April 12, 2024.  Counsel will be
relieved upon filing proof of service on the client of the Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form
MC-053). 
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.