 Case Number:  22STCV34492    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  October 27, 2022, Plaintiff Cody Quang (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Dylan Alexander Silver, Steven P. Silver, and Does 1-20 for motor  vehicle tort and general negligence.  On  November 30, 2022, Defendants Dylan Alexander Silver and Steven P. Silver  (“Defendants”) filed an answer.  On  March 19, 2024, Defendants filed motions (1) to compel Plaintiff’s second  medical examination (orthopedic and neuropsychological issues) or, in the  alternative, for an order for second IME for a mental examination, (2) to compel  answers to supplemental interrogatories and for sanctions, and (3) to compel  responses to supplemental demand for production of documents and for sanctions.  The motions were set for hearing on May 23,  2024.  On  May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed (1) an opposition to the motion to compel  Plaintiff’s second medical examination or, in the alternative, for a mental  examination and (2) an opposition to the motions to compel answers to  supplemental interrogatories and supplemental demand for production of  documents. On May 14, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.   Trial  is currently scheduled for July 26, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendants  ask the Court (1) to compel Plaintiff’s responses to the supplemental demand for  production of documents and for sanctions, (2) to compel Plaintiff’s answers to  supplemental interrogatories and for sanctions, and (3) to compel Plaintiff’s  second medical examination (orthopedic and neuropsychological issues) or, in  the alternative, for an order for a second IME for a mental examination.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motions.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Inspection demand  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides:  “If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the  following rules shall apply:  “(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,  copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,  including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under  Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve  that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following  conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The party has subsequently served a response that  is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,  2031.240, and 2031.280.  “(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  “(b) The party making the demand may move for an order  compelling response to the demand.  “(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court  shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or  opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the  imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order compelling  a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including the  imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in  addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent  exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or  any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored  information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of  the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system.  “(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter  any obligation to preserve discoverable information.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.300.)  B.   Interrogatories  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides:  “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails  to serve a timely response, the following rules apply:  “(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are  directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under  Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including  one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4  (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that  party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following  conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The party has subsequently served a response that  is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and  2030.240.  “(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  “(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may  move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.  “(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling  answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition  of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that  sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing  with Section 2023.010).”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.)            C.      Physical  and mental examinations          Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides:  “(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking  recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical  examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are  satisfied:  “(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic  test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.  “(2) The examination is conducted at a location within  75 miles of the residence of the examinee.  “(b) A defendant may make a demand under this article  without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in  the action, whichever occurs first.  “(c) A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the  time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well  as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform  the examination.  “(d) A physical examination demanded under subdivision  (a) shall be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service of the  demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may shorten  this time.  “(e) The defendant shall serve a copy of the demand  under subdivision (a) on the plaintiff and on all other parties who have  appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2032.220.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides:  “(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a  physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with  Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of  court.  “(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)  shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the  examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person  or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by  a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the  person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.)            Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part:  “(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or  mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.  * * *   “(d) An order granting a physical or mental  examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the  examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and  procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,  subds. (a), (d).)  DISCUSSION  A.   Defendants’ motions to compel responses to  supplemental demands for production  of documents and supplemental interrogatories  On  February 1, 2024, Defendants served a supplemental demand for production of  documents and supplemental interrogatories on Plaintiff’s counsel.  Plaintiff did not provide timely responses and  had not provided responses by the time Defendants filed this motion. Defendants  now move to compel responses and for sanctions.  Plaintiff  opposes the motion, arguing that Defendants sent the discovery requests only to  Plaintiff’s counsel’s email address (kyle@kjslaw) and not to additional staff  email accounts (naomi@kjslaw.com and serve@kjslaw) as requested.  Plaintiff’s counsel  was engaged in trial in San Bernardino County Superior Court when Defendants served the  supplemental discovery on his email address and on a “defunct” email address (team@kjslaw.com).   On  March 25, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel served responses to the supplemental  discovery requests.  Defendants do not deny  that they received Plaintiff’s belated responses to the supplemental discovery requests  and do not challenge the adequacy of the responses.  Therefore, the Court finds the motions to compel  responses to the supplemental discovery requests are moot.  The Court denies the motions and declines to  award sanctions.  B.   Defendants’ motion to compel second physical or mental  examination  On  February 7, 2024, Defendants served (1) Demand for Medical Examination of  Plaintiff Cody Quang, with Dr. Sangdo Park, whose specialty is orthopedic  surgery, to take place on March 15, 2024 and (2) Demand for Medical Examination  of Plaintiff Cody Quang, with Dr. George Henry, a clinical neuropsychologist,  to take place on March 12, 2024.  Despite  the title of the second demand, its text stated that Defendants were demanding  a “mental examination.”  The second  demand also described the examination as a “neuropsychological evaluation.”  Plaintiff did not object to the demands.  Plaintiff  attended the March 15, 2024 examination with Dr. Park.  Plaintiff  did not attend the March 12, 2024 examination.   Defendants’ counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel, who said he did not  receive notice of the March 12 examination and Defendants needed leave of court  to conduct a second examination.   Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s counsel “stipulated” to a second  examination but concede that no written stipulation exists.  (Zippe dec. ¶¶ 10-11, 14-15.)  The Court finds that the parties did not  stipulate that Defendants could conduct a second examination of Plaintiff without first obtaining leave of Court.  Therefore, Defendants were required to obtain  leave of Court to conduct a second examination.   (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)  Defendants  ask the Court, in the alternative, for leave to conduct a mental examination.  (Zippe dec. ¶ 17.)  Based on the information included in the  original notice (attached to Defendants’ motion), the Court grants Defendants’  request for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s mental examination.   Dr. George Henry, a clinical neuropsychologist, or another suitable neuropsychologist will  conduct the examination on a mutually agreeable date within 60 days of the Court’s ruling.  The examination  will be limited to the tests listed in the notice served on February 7, 2024.  The examination will not exceed six  hours.  Plaintiff will receive a lunch  break, bathroom breaks, and rest breaks.  Plaintiff  may record the entire mental examination using  audio technology.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2032.530, subd. (a).)  The Court  exercises its discretion and orders  release of the raw testing data and testing materials to Plaintiff’s counsel  subject to a protective order.  (See Randy's  Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837-839.)  The  Court denies Defendants’ request for sanctions because Defendants had not  obtained leave of Court to conduct a mental examination on March 12, 2024 and  Plaintiff had not stipulated to attend the examination.  CONCLUSION   The  Court GRANTS in part the motion to compel Plaintiff Cody Quang’s second medical  examination (orthopedic and neuropsychological issues) or, in the alternative,  for an order for second IME for a mental examination filed by Defendants Dylan  Alexander Silver and Steven P. Silver.   The Court orders Plaintiff Cody Quang to attend a mental examination  with Dr. George Henry, a clinical  neuropsychologist, at 11601 Wilshire Blvd., 5th Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90025, or with another suitable neuropsychologist on  a mutually agreeable date within 60 days of the Court’s ruling subject to the  conditions stated above.  In all other  respects, the Court DENIES the motion.  The  Court DENIES the motion to compel Plaintiff Cody Quang’s responses to  supplemental demand for production of documents filed by Defendants Dylan Alexander Silver and Steven P. Silver as moot.  The  Court DENIES the motion to compel Plaintiff Cody Quang’s responses to  supplemental interrogatories filed by Defendants Dylan Alexander Silver and  Steven P. Silver as moot.  The  Court DENIES the requests for sanctions of Defendants Dylan Alexander Silver  and Steven P. Silver.  Moving  parties are to give notice of the Court’s ruling.  Moving  parties are to file proof of service of the Court’s ruling within five days.