 Case Number:  23STCV11502    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the documents submitted in support of a default judgment, the Court
rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff Maidia Leola Stillitano (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Juventina Acosta Funez (“Acosta”),
Jorge Hernandez (“Hernandez”), and Does 1-25 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On
June 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed proofs of service showing substituted service on
Acosta and Hernandez of the summons, complaint, statement of damages, and other
documents on May 31, 2023. On July 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed amended proofs of
service. 
On
July 24, 2023, the clerk entered Acosta’s and Hernandez’s defaults. 
On
December 5, 2023, the Court dismissed the Doe defendants without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
January 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed statements of damages sought against Acosta and
Hernandez.  Each statement of damages
listed (1) general damages of $350,000.00 for pain, suffering, and
inconvenience, and (2) special damages consisting of $48,184.68 for medical expenses
to date, $30,000.00 for future medical expenses, $15,000.00 for lost earnings,
and $500.00 for property damage (deductible). 
On February
27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for Court judgment. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
Maidia Leola Stillitano asks the Court to enter a default judgment against
Defendants Juventina Acosta Funez and Jorge Hernandez and award Plaintiff $291,408.54,
consisting of $250,000.00 in general damages, $40,771.29 in special damages, and
637.25 in costs. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.      Default judgment 
“[With exceptions that do not apply here,] [a] party
seeking a default judgment on declarations must use mandatory Request for Entry
of Default (Application to Enter Default) (form CIV-100) . . . The following
must be included in the documents filed with the clerk: 
“(1)  Except in
unlawful detainer cases, a brief summary of the case identifying the parties
and the nature of plaintiff's claim; 
“(2) 
Declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment
requested; 
“(3)  Interest
computations as necessary; 
“(4)  A
memorandum of costs and disbursements; 
“(5)  A
declaration of nonmilitary status for each defendant against whom judgment is
sought; 
“(6)  A proposed
form of judgment; 
“(7)  A
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment against specified parties under Code of Civil Procedure
section 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; 
“(8)  Exhibits
as necessary; and 
“(9)  A request
for attorney fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1800(a).) 
B.       Damages 
 On a request for default judgment, “[w]here a
cause of action is stated in the complaint, plaintiff merely needs to introduce
evidence establishing a prima facie case for damages.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 5:213.1, p. 5-56 (Cal.
Practice Guide), citing Johnson v. Stanhiser (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 357,
361 [trial court erred in applying preponderance of the evidence standard].) 
 The relief granted to a plaintiff upon entry
of a defendant's default cannot exceed the amount demanded in the complaint or,
for personal injury cases where damages may not be stated in the complaint, the
amount listed in the statement of damages. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 580, subd. (a),
585, subd. (b).) “The notice requirement of section 580 was designed to insure
fundamental fairness.” (Becker v. S.P.V. Construction Co. (1980) 27
Cal.3d 489, 494.) The statute insures that “defendants in cases which involve a
default judgment have adequate notice of the judgments that may be taken
against them. [Citation.] ‘If a judgment other than that which is demanded is
taken against him, [the defendant] has been deprived of his day in court—a
right to a hearing on the matter adjudicated.’ ’’ (Id. at p. 493.) A
trial court exceeds its jurisdiction if it awards damages in excess of the
amount specified in the complaint or statement of damages. (Id. at p.
494.) 
DISCUSSION 
The CIV-100 form lacks the name and signature of a
declarant stating under penalty of perjury that items 4, 5 and 6 are correct. 
In addition, Section 6 in the CIV-100 form is not
filled out. 
In Section 8 of the CIV-100 form, the Declaration of
Military Status, Plaintiff checked “Other” and wrote: “Defendant, Juventina
Acosta Funez indicated she was not a US resident and did not have a license or
identification.  As to Defendant, Jose Hernandez, we do not have a social
security number or date of birth and therefore searches could not be performed.” 
Military and Veterans Code section 402, subdivision
(a), provides: 
“In any
action or proceeding commenced in any court, if there shall be a default of any
appearance by the defendant, the plaintiff, before entering judgment shall file
in the court a declaration under penalty of perjury setting forth facts showing
that the defendant is not in the military service. If unable to file that
declaration, the plaintiff shall, in lieu thereof, file a declaration setting
forth either that the defendant is in the service or that the plaintiff is not
able to determine whether or not the defendant is in the service. If a
declaration is not filed showing that the defendant is not in the military
service, no judgment shall be entered without first securing an order of court
directing that entry, and no order shall be made if the defendant is in the
military service until after the court appoints an attorney to represent the
defendant and protect his or her interest, and the court shall, on application,
make that appointment. If an attorney appointed under this section to represent
a service member cannot locate the service member, actions by the attorney in
the case shall not waive any defense of the service member or otherwise bind
the service member. Unless it appears that the defendant is not in the military
service the court may require, as a condition before judgment is entered, that
the plaintiff file a bond approved by the court conditioned to indemnify the
defendant, if in the military service, against any loss or damage that he or
she may suffer by reason of any judgment should the judgment be thereafter set
aside in whole or in part. The court may make such other and further order or
enter that judgment as in its opinion may be necessary to protect the rights of
the defendant under this section.” 
(See also 50 U.S.C. § 3931(b)(3) [“If based upon the
affidavits filed in such an action, the court is unable to determine whether
the defendant is in military service, the court, before entering judgment, may
require the plaintiff to file a bond in an amount approved by the court”].) 
Here, Plaintiff cannot determine if either Defendant
is in the military service of the United States.  Therefore, Plaintiff should address the
question whether the Court should require Plaintiff to file a bond as a
condition before entry of judgment and the amount of an appropriate bond. 
The
Court denies without prejudice Plaintiff’s application for entry of default
judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Plaintiff Maidia Leola Stillitano’s application
for default judgment against Defendants Juventina Acosta Funez and Jorge Hernandez filed on February 27,
2024. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.