 Case Number:  23STCV05946    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 17, 2023, Plaintiff Alice Alexis Leigh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Louisiana Fried Chicken Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 for
general negligence and premises liability. 
On
April 24, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
February 20, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave
to obtain Plaintiff’s second physical examination, to be heard on March 26,
2024.  The Court continued the hearing to
May 23, 2024.  On March 13, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On March
19, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
On
February 27, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to obtain Plaintiff’s mental
examination, to be heard on March 26, 2024. 
The Court continued the hearing to May 23, 2024.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 13, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court for leave to conduct (1) a second physical examination of
Plaintiff by orthopedic surgeon A. Nicholas Shamie, M.D.,
at 10850 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 520, Los Angeles, California 90024, at 3:00 p.m.
on April 17, 2024 and (2) a mental examination by neuropsychologist John T.
Dunn, Ph.D., at 23734 Valencia Blvd., Suite 306, Valencia, CA 91355, on April
26, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the request for leave to conduct a physical examination. 
LEGAL STANDARD 

Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any
case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee. 
“(b) A
defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court after
that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action, whichever occurs
first. 
“(c) A demand
under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if
any, of the physician who will perform the examination. 
“(d) A
physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a
date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand. On motion of the
party demanding the examination, the court may shorten this time. 
“(e) The
defendant shall serve a copy of the demand under subdivision (a) on the
plaintiff and on all other parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310
provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
 “(d) An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).) 

DISCUSSION 
A.   Second physical examination 
On
February 15, 2024, Plaintiff participated in a defense physical examination by
Barry Ludwig, M.D., a neurologist.  Defendant
now asks for leave to conduct a second physical examination based on Plaintiff’s
assertion that, due to Defendant’s negligence, she suffers orthopedic injuries
and has received orthopedic treatment for her injuries.  A. Nicholas Shamie, M.D., an orthopedic surgeon,
would conduct the examination. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing Defendant has failed to show good cause for a
second physical examination.  According
to Plaintiff, the medical records she provided to Defendant, together with Plaintiff’s
previous physical examination, adequately document her medical condition.  Plaintiff contends that a second physical
examination would be cumulative, unduly burdensome, and an undue invasion of
her privacy. 
In
particular, Plaintiff argues that neurologist Barry Ludwig’s examination “extended
beyond a neurological consultation to include thorough assessments of
Plaintiff’s right elbow, left knee, neck, and back pain.”  (Opposition p. 1.)  Indeed, Plaintiff contends, Defendant is now
seeking a “second orthopedic examination” because Dr. Ludwig’s examination
included an orthopedic assessment.  (Opposition
p. 4.) 
The
Court has reviewed Dr. Ludwig’s report and finds nothing to support Plaintiff’s
contention that Dr. Ludwig conducted an orthopedic assessment.  The report states that Plaintiff was referred
to Dr. Ludwig “for neurological evaluation.” 
(Exh. 3, p. 1.)  The report does
not state that the evaluation included an orthopedic component.  Plaintiff has presented no evidence that she
or her counsel has background, training, or experience needed to characterize Dr.
Ludwig’s neurological examination as an orthopedic examination. 
The
Court finds good cause and grants Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a
second physical examination.  The
examination may include the tests and procedures described in Defendant’s notice
of motion.  The parties and their counsel
will comply with the manner, nature, and conditions of the examination
specified in Defendant’s notice of motion. 
The examination will take place on a mutually agreeable date within 30
days of the hearing on the motion. 
B.       Mental
examination 
Plaintiff
asserts that she has experienced mental, emotional, and cognitive injuries due
to Defendant’s alleged negligence.  As a
result, Plaintiff has placed her mental, emotional, and cognitive condition at
issue.  The Court finds good cause and
grants Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a mental examination. 
The
examination may include the tests and procedures described in Defendant’s notice
of motion and motion.  The parties and
their counsel will comply with the terms and conditions specified in Defendant’s
notice of motion. The examination will
take place on a mutually agreeable date within 30 days of the hearing on the
motion. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS Defendant Louisiana Fried Chicken Inc.’s motion
for leave to obtain Plaintiff Alice
Alexis Leigh’s second physical examination. 
The second physical examination will take place on a mutually agreeable
date within 30 days of the hearing on the motion.  Orthopedic surgeon A. Nicholas Shamie, M.D.,
at 10850 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 520, Los Angeles, California 90024, will conduct
the examination. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Louisiana Fried Chicken Inc.’s motion for leave to
obtain Plaintiff Alice Alexis Leigh’s mental examination.  The mental examination will take place on a
mutually agreeable date within 30 days of the hearing on the motion.  Neuropsychologist John T. Dunn, Ph.D., at 23734
Valencia Blvd., Suite 306, Valencia, CA 91355, will conduct the examination. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.