

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 7, 2024, Plaintiff City
of Los Angeles, Acting by and through The Los Angeles Department of Water and
Power, (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendant Marcus Cordell Jones Jr.
and Does 1 through 10 (Defendant) alleging one cause of action for Automobile
Negligence.
 
On July 17, 2024, Defendant filed
an Answer.
 
On August 22, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel Kerry M. McMahon filed the instant motion to be relieved as counsel.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
 
An order relieving
counsel from representing Defendant Marcus Cordell Jones Jr. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
The court may order that an
attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or
final determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice
from one to the other.¿¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., § 284,¿subd. (b).)¿ An attorney
is permitted to withdraw where conflicts between the attorney and client make
it unreasonable to continue the representation.¿ (See Cal. Rules of Prof.
Conduct 3-700(C)(1).)¿ “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi
& Levine v. Superior Court¿(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)
An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion) (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1362(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(e)). Further,
the requisite forms must be served on the client and all other parties who have
appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(d).)¿The court may delay
effective date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy
of the signed order on the client has been filed with the court.¿ (Cal. Rules
of Court 3.1362(e).)
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Defendant’s counsel Kerry M.
McMahon, Esq. (“Counsel”) moves to be relieved because of a breakdown in
communication with the client, Defendant Marcus Cordell Jones Jr. (“Client”). (McMahon
Decl. in Support of Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.) Client has become unresponsive
to Counsel’s communications, has been unreachable by telephone or written correspondence
for several months and as of August 22, 2024, has remained unresponsive. (Ibid.)
Counsel has also employed a private investigator to obtain Defendant’s current
contact information to no avail. (Ibid.) Thus, Counsel has tried to
reach the client but his unresponsiveness has made it unreasonable to proceed
with the representation. Counsel filed the requisite application
(MC-051) and proposed order (MC-053) using the appropriate forms. (Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel.) Counsel has sent a copy of the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel of
Record for Defendant to Defendant’s last known address, including Proof of Service.
(McMahon Decl. in Support of Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.) Counsel has
also electronically served the motion and supporting declaration to counsel for
Plaintiff City of Los Angeles. (McMahon Decl. in Support of Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel.)
 
Therefore, Counsel substantially
complied with the California Rules of Court and has consistently served
requisite documents on all parties and on Client.
 
Conclusion 
            
Accordingly, the court GRANTS the Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
for Plaintiff.
 
The Court finds Counsel has complied with the requirements
of Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362. 
 
The Court's Ruling and Attorney's relief as Counsel of
record for client is not effective until Proof of Service of the Order signed
by the Court upon the client is filed in this action.  Until then, counsel continues to be counsel
of record.  Cal. Rules of Court
3.1362(e). 
 
"Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil" is electronically signed by the Court and filed herein this
date for reference.  
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 