  Case Number:  23SMCV04908    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04908




MOTION


Application
  for Writ of Attachment




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Gar Lee, Trustee of the Gar Yin Lee Charitable Remainder Unitrust;
  Acquisition Science; Zach Goldberg, Trustee of the Zach Goldberg Charitable
  Remainder Unitrust; and Advance the World




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning an alleged Ponzi scheme to
defraud.  On October 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Gar Lee, Trustee of the Gar Yin Lee Charitable Remainder Unitrust; Acquisition
Science; Zach Goldberg, Trustee of the Zach Goldberg Charitable Remainder
Unitrust; and Advance the World (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) brought suit
against Defendants Bruce Francis Majeski; Kristine Taylor (originally named as
Kristine Taylor Appel); Ron Appel; Kristine Taylor Philanthropies; TLC Escrow
Services, Inc.; Helpuloan, LLC aka Helpuloans aka Help U Loan aka Help U Loans;
Sovereign Wealth Preservation, Inc.; Philanthropy House; My Philanthropies; B
& B Economic Development, LLC; KAB Holdings, Inc.; Seagate Holdings, Inc.;
CFO Advisor; and Orion House (collectively, “Defendants.”)
 
Plaintiffs now seek a writ of attachment against Defendants My
Philanthropies (“MP”) and Bruce Majeski (“Majeski”).  The writ is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Attachment is a prejudgment remedy that allows a creditor to have a
lien on the debtor's assets until final adjudication of the claim sued
upon[.]”  (Weil & Brown, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶¶ 9:853 et
seq., p. 9II-118 et seq.)  “The
creditor must follow statutory guidelines in applying for the attachment and
establish a prima facie claim; and the court is required to make a preliminary
determination of the merits of the dispute.” 
(Ibid.)
 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, an attachment may be issued
only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
The requirements for obtaining a writ of attachment are: (1) the claim
upon which the attachment is based must be one upon which an attachment may
issue; (2) plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon
which the attachment is based; (3) the attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; and (4)
the amount to be secured by attachment is greater than zero.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (a).)  
 
            “The application shall be supported
by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be
entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.)  The facts stated in any such affidavit or
verified complaint must be stated with particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 482.040.) 
 
            “A claim has ‘probable validity’
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on that claim.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 481.190.) 
 
ANALYSIS

 
As a threshold matter, a notice of application and hearing for writ of
attachment must be filed and served at least 16 court days prior to the
hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005.)  
 
Here, the Court finds that the proofs of service indicate that the moving
papers were served on Ronald I. Appel, Esq., counsel for Defendants Ron Appel,
Kristine Taylor, Kristine Taylor Philanthropies, and Seagate Holdings, Inc.,
but no other Defendants.  
 
However, the remaining Defendants are in default, and therefore no
notice to them is required.  “The entry
of a default terminates a defendant's rights to take any further affirmative
steps in the  litigation until either its
default is set aside or a default judgment is entered.”  (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault,
Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385.) 
Further, the entry of default “[c]uts off the defendant's right to file
pleadings and motions (other than a motion to set aside default under § 473),
and it also cuts off the defendant's right to notices and the service of pleadings
or papers.”  (Bailey v. Citibank, N.A.
(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 335, 347.)  
 
Having determined service is proper, the Court turns to the merits of
the application.
 
1.     Claim
Upon Which Attachment is Based
 
The first element is that the claim upon which the attachment is based
be one upon which an attachment may be issued. 
“[A]n attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims
for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where
the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable
amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest,
and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs claim for money is based on an express contract.  (Complaint at ¶¶ 211-226.)  Plaintiffs contend they have sustained
damages in the amount of $1,840,000, which is the amount they invested under
the contract.  (Manzo Affidavit at ¶ 3.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs have established the first element.
 
2.     Probable
Validity of the Claim
 
The second element is that Plaintiffs have established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.  Plaintiffs seek to attach the property of two
defaulted Defendants, Majeski and MP , based on the breach of contract claim.
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
However, Plaintiffs have not provided evidence establishing the
probable validity of this claim. 
Instead, to support Plaintiffs’ assertion that the parties entered into
a contract, Plaintiffs primarily cites allegations in the unverified
Complaint.  (See Motion at pp. 4-5.)  But allegations in an unverified Complaint
are not evidence.  And although Majeski
and MP have defaulted, Plaintiffs must still demonstrate the probable validity
of their claim.  For example, as to
defaulted defendants, entry of a default judgment still requires proof.
 
The only evidence Plaintiff cites to is paragraph 7 of the Manzo
Affidavit, which provides:
 
7. I am informed and believed that BRUCE MAJESKI failed to record the
vast majority of fractionalized Trust Deeds on behalf of Plaintiffs which
Plaintiffs believed in good faith they were purchasing. I have attached as
Exhibit “4” hereto three true and correct copies of property profile reports
for 251 Camellia Ln, Costa Mesa, CA 92627, 4445 Cartwright Avenue, Unit 207,
North Hollywood, CA 91602, and 33582 Palo Alto St., Dana Point, CA 92629 – all
of which Plaintiffs believed they had invested in. As the reports demonstrate –
none of Plaintiffs were recorded on the deeds mentioned, but defendants and
their companies appear numerous times.
 
(Manzo Affidavit at ¶ 7.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiffs have
not established the probable validity of their breach of contract claim.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ Application without
prejudice.  
 
            Plaintiffs
shall give notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:
July 1, 2024                                                             ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


