  Case Number:  23STCV08240    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
JUDITH
  MENDEZ,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
BYOLL,
  LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV08240
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  4/13/2023
Trial
  Date:  4/7/2025



 
Hearing
date:  August 2, 2024
Moving
Party:  Plaintiff Judith Mendez
Responding
Party:  Defendants Byoll LLC, Rick
Roussin, and IPTC, LLC
Motion
for Leave to Amend             
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
Background
            On
April 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants including the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith And Fair Dealing; (3) Declaratory Relief; (4)
Intentional Misrepresentation (5) Concealment; (6) Fraudulent Foreclosure; and
(7) Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200. (Declaration of
Zachary D. Schorr, [“ZDS Dec.”], ¶3.) One day later on April 14, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”). (ZDS Dec. ¶ 4.) On November
1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a chapter 13 petition for bankruptcy. (ZDS Dec., ¶ 5.)
On April 9, 2024, the bankruptcy court dismissed Plaintiff’s bankruptcy. (ZDS
Dec., ¶ 5.)
            On
April 11, 2024, Defendants BYOLL, LLC, RICK ROUSSIN, and IPTC, LLC, filed their
first demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint and is set to be heard on February 25,
2025.
 
            On
May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. On July 10, 2024, Defendants
filed their opposition. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
            
Legal
Standard
“A court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a)(1).)  Such amendment may
occur “at any time before or after commencement of trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)  The court’s discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendments of the pleadings.  (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972)
6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)¿ “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . .
[s]tate what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)¿
The declaration must also specify the amendment’s effect, why it is necessary
and proper, when the facts supporting the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b).)¿
 
If the party
seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.¿ (See Hirsa
v. Super. Ct. (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)¿ Prejudice exists where the
amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.¿ (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New
York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿¿ ¿ 
 
Discussion
            Merits
            Plaintiff
requests leave to amend the First Amended Complaint based on new facts that
have come to light during the litigation process. (Mot. at p. 4.) Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective because Plaintiff
failed to comply with Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1324 (a) and (b). (Opp. at pp.
3-4.) Moreover, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s delay in bringing this motion
is inexcusable and prejudices Defendants because Plaintiff brought this motion
more than one year after filing her Complaint and First Amended Complaint. (Id.
at p. 5.) Defendants further argue that they will be prejudiced if this Court
grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend her FAC. Granting Plaintiff leave
to amend will delay the trial, add costs of preparation in this matter, and
require additional discovery. (Id. at p.7.) Additionally, Defendants
request that if this Court were inclined to grant Plaintiff’s motion, then it
should condition the granting on compensating Defendants for having to incur
additional costs to complete additional discovery and file a new demurrer as
well as the congoing carrying costs for the Property. (Id. at p. 9.) Defendants
further request that the Court should further require Plaintiff to repay
Defendants for the entire outstanding loan balance up to the day to trial. (Id.)

 
            The
Court finds the motion is procedurally defective for
various reasons. For instance, Plaintiff’s motion fails to “[s]tate what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed
to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
deleted allegations are located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed to
be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the additional allegations are located.”¿(Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).) Moreover, Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration fails to state
when the facts supporting the amended allegations were discovered, and why the
request was not made earlier.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)¿Plaintiff
further failed to “state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.” Plaintiff attempts to remediate these
deficiencies in her reply; however, these are new arguments were brought in the
reply which is improper. Plaintiff’s reliance on Honig v. Financial Corp. of
America is misguided. 
 
            Therefore,
the Court DENIES the Motion for Leave to Amend WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
            
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: August 2, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court