 Case Number:  24STCP01144    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  26  
 Diya
Finance, LLC v. Cal Grove Rentals, Inc., et al.PETITION
TO RELEASE MECHANIC’S LIEN(Civil Code § 8480)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC’s Petition to Release Property
from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER IS ENTITLED TO RECOVER ATTORNEY’S
FEES AND COSTS.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC (“Petitioner”), filed the
instant Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent Cal Grove
Rentals, Inc. (“Respondent”) on April 10, 2024. No response to the Petition has
been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded
against their property by Respondent released. Under Civil Code section 8484
the petition for release order must be verified by the petitioner and allege
the following:
 
(a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the
petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of
lien is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number
of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the
property subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the
claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do
so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the
lien is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property
or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is
another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to
enforce the lien.
 
(Civil Code, § 8484.) The Petition contains all the
information required by the statute. Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b)
also requires service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing to “be made in the
same manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested . . . .” (Civ. Code, § 8486, subd. (b).)
Petitioner has filed a compliant proof of service of the Petition and the
Notice of the Hearing Date, showing service of the papers on Respondent by certified
mail, postage prepaid, with return receipt requested. (Proof of Service by
Mail, filed 07/24/24.) This complies with the statute for service of process.
 
The Petition also seeks attorney’s fees and costs in
connection with the instant proceeding under Civil Code section 8488,
subdivision (c). (Pet., p. 3:4-5.) The Court finds Petitioner is entitled to
recover attorney’s fees and costs. 
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC’s Petition to Release Property
from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER IS ENTITLED TO RECOVER ATTORNEY’S
FEES AND COSTS. 
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 