 Case Number:  23STCV19861    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HOWARD WILLIAMS, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
FORD APARTMENTS, LP, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV19861
  Hearing Date:  January 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
this complaint against Defendants Ford Apartments, LP and Single Room Occupancy
Housing Corporation, asserting the following causes of action: (1) breach of
contract/covenant of quiet enjoyment/warranty of habitability; (2) tortious
breach of the implied warranty of habitability; (3) negligence; (4) private
nuisance; (5) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; (6) unfair business
practices; and (7) constructive eviction. 
            Plaintiffs are various tenants residing
in the subject property, and Defendants are allegedly the owners or managers of
the property. Plaintiffs allege that they have consistently complained to
Defendants about numerous uninhabitable conditions and that Defendants have
failed to adequately abate the defects in order to save money. 
            On December 6, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on January 8, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on January 16,
2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Cain
Decl.)
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer

            a. Breach of Contract/Covenant
of Quiet Enjoyment/Warranty of Habitability
            To establish breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract
existed, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) Certain
contractual obligations are implied by law. Specifically, “there is a
warranty of habitability implied in residential leases in California.” (Erlach
v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1296.) Additionally, “every lease contains an
implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 291.) A breach of contract can be alleged by simply “plead[ing] the
legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Miles v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)
            Here, the complaint alleges that “Defendant
breached the Plaintiffs’ lease contracts through breaches of the implied
warranty of habitability and covenant of quiet enjoyment.” (Compl. ¶ 81.)
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have conflated normally separate claims for
breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment and breach of the warranty of
habitability into one cause of action, rendering the complaint uncertain. Defendants
further argue that Plaintiffs should be barred from asserting breach of
contract as an independent cause of action.           However,
“[a] plaintiff may plead cumulative or inconsistent causes of action.” (Gherman
v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 565.) It is the substance of a claim,
not its formatting, that matters. (See Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) Despite how the first “cause of action”
is labeled, the complaint is sufficiently clear that the contracts were
breached because Defendants breached the implied obligations of quiet enjoyment
and habitability. Because the obligations are defined by law, it is sufficiently
clear what “material terms” of the contract were breached.  
            Defendants also argue that the
complaint fails to allege that the conduct or issues were so substantial as to
interfere with Plaintiffs’ right to use and enjoy the premises. For pleading
purposes, the complaint sufficiently identifies multiple defective conditions
that could have substantially interfered with Plaintiffs’ tenancies. (See
Compl. ¶ 57 [inadequate sanitation and plumbing, mold, vermin infestation,
defective wiring, structural hazards, and broken mechanical equipment].) Defendants
allegedly failed to repair the defects in order to save money. (Id., ¶
58.) Whether these facts actually constitute substantial interference is a question
for the trier of fact. Therefore, the first cause of action is adequately pled.

            b. Unfair Business Practices
            Business and Professions Code
section 17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or
practices. Each of the three prongs is an independent basis for relief. (Smith
v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700,
718.) Unlawful conduct is defined as any practice forbidden by law. (Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) UCL actions
alleging unlawful conduct “borrow” from other statutes or common law causes of
action outside Section 17200. (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.)  
            Defendants argue that the UCL claim
is defective because it fails to allege actual reliance or causation, and is
duplicative of the claims for warranty of habitability and Civil Code section
1942.4. However, “[a] plaintiff may plead cumulative or inconsistent causes of
action.” (Gherman, supra, 72 Cal.App.3d at p. 565.) The warranty of
habitability claim is adequately pled, as discussed above, and Defendants do
not challenge the Civil Code section 1942.4 claim. Therefore, these claims form
the predicate “unlawful” acts for a UCL claim. The complaint alleges that
Defendants caused harm by maintaining uninhabitable conditions that interfere
with Plaintiffs’ tenancies and extracting full rental value despite the
unfitness of the property. (Compl. ¶¶ 120-126.) Therefore, the UCL claim is
adequately pled.  
            c. Constructive Eviction
            “An eviction is actual when a
landlord takes direct action to physically expel the tenant from the premises.
An eviction is constructive if the landlord engages in acts that render the
premises unfit for occupancy for the purpose for which it was leased, or
deprive the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises.” (Cunningham
v. Universal Underwriters (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1152.) “In order that
there be a constructive eviction it is essential that the tenant should vacate
the property. There is no constructive eviction if the tenant continues in
possession of the premises however much he may be disturbed in the beneficial
enjoyment.” (Ibid.) 
            Here, the seventh cause of action
for constructive eviction is only asserted by Plaintiffs Velez and Washington.
Defendants argue that the claim is defective because Plaintiffs do not allege
that the premises was unfit for occupancy or that they were deprived of
enjoyment. Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs do not allege they vacated the
premises. However, the allegations discussed above sufficiently establish
uninhabitable conditions for pleading purposes. Additionally, Plaintiffs allege
that they were constructively evicted on a specific date, meaning they vacated
the premises. (Compl. ¶¶ 18, 49.) Whether Plaintiffs vacated within a
reasonable time is a factual issue. Therefore, the constructive eviction claim
is adequately pled. 
II.
Motion to Strike
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
The allegations discussed above
sufficiently support an inference of malice and oppression for pleading
purposes. Specifically, the complaint identifies sufficiently egregious uninhabitable
conditions and alleges that Defendants knowingly failed to address the defects in
order to save money and extract more rent. These are facts that demonstrate a
conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights and safety and unjust hardship. It
is for the trier of fact to determine whether Defendants’ actions were actually
malicious or merely negligent. Therefore, the complaint adequately pleads
punitive damages. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
 