 Case Number:  23STCV03486    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HALEY CHAPMAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MARRIOT INTERNATIONAL,
  INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV03486
  Hearing Date:  January 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Haley Chapman, individually and as successor-in-interest to Noelle Glotfelty (Decedent),
filed this action against various Defendants for (1) wrongful death, (2) survival
cause of action, and (3) negligence.
            The
complaint stems from the death of Decedent, who committed suicide inside a Marriott
hotel room. Plaintiff is Decedent’s daughter. (Compl. ¶ 1.) On February 24,
2022, Decedent checked into the hotel amidst a mental health crisis. (Id.,
¶ 22.) Upon becoming concerned that Decedent did not appear for a scheduled
visit, Decedent’s relatives contacted the Moorpark Police Department, which was
staffed and operated by the Ventura County Sheriff’s Department. (Id., ¶
23.) Two deputies, Defendant Scott and Defendant Sperber, arrived at the relatives’
home and were advised of Decedent’s mental issues and threats of suicide. (Id.,
¶ 24.) The deputies eventually identified the Marriott hotel in Agoura Hills as
the location where Decedent was staying. (Id., ¶ 25.)   
            When the deputies arrived at the
hotel, Defendant Gamboa, the only manager working at the time, refused to
disclose the room number of Decedent based on hotel policy. (Compl. ¶ 27.) The
deputies advised Gamboa to call the operations manager and assistant general
manager, neither of whom answered. (Id., ¶ 28.) The deputies were given
permission to walk throughout the hotel premises to try to verbally locate
Decedent. (Id., ¶ 29.) After 30 to 40 minutes of searching in vain, the
deputies were ordered to cease their search and instead respond to another
missing persons report. (Ibid.) The deputies left at around 12:45am on
the morning of February 25, 2022, and from that time until 6:00am on February
25, no hotel employee performed a welfare check on Decedent. (Id., ¶
30.)
            At approximately 6:00am on February
25, Gamboa was instructed by Marriott headquarters to perform a welfare check
on Decedent. (Compl. ¶ 31.) Gamboa knocked on the door, but there was no
response. (Ibid.) Gamboa took no further action until the arrival of
deputies from the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department. (Ibid.) The
Los Angeles deputies discovered Decedent in her hotel room, after which she was
pronounced dead. (Id., ¶ 32.)    
            On December 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to compel further responses from Defendant Huntington
Pacific Hotels, LLC as to Request for Production No. 26. Defendant filed its
opposition on January 8, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on January 12, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery requests,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses if the
responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without merit or too
general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a), 2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2031.310(b),
2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. (See Zang Decl.)
DISCUSSION
RFP No. 26 requests the following: “The ‘System
and Standard’ established by Marriott International, Inc., for franchise owners
and operators which are referred to in paragraphs 8.1B, 8.3A, 10.2, 11.2 AI,
and 15.1, of the franchise agreement between the Defendants in this case.” Defendant
initially objected that the request calls for trade secret or other
confidential information. Defendant’s supplemental response asserted the same
objection and then indicated that Defendant would not comply with the request
absent a court order. Defendant’s further supplemental response stated that it
would provide its Brand Standard Indexes but that any further documents would
not be produced absent a protective order. 
The requested records on hotel policies
are relevant because Plaintiff alleges negligence on the part of the hotel and
is entitled to ascertain whether Defendant implemented and followed adequate
protocols. Therefore, Plaintiff has established good cause for the production. 
In opposition, Defendant first argues that
the motion is procedurally defective because Plaintiff did not schedule an
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) in accordance with the Eighth Amended
Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Court. The standing
order states that “parties should participate in an IDC before a motion
to compel” but does not mandate it as a prerequisite to a motion. Furthermore,
Plaintiff attempted multiple times to schedule an IDC, but Defendant did not
reply. (Zang Decl. ¶¶ 14-15, Ex. C, E, F.) Therefore, the motion is
procedurally proper, and the Court will proceed on the merits. 
Defendant argues that the request is
overbroad and encompasses documents not relevant to the subject action.
Defendant never asserted this objection in any of its three responses, which
focused on the trade secret issue. Defendant’s latest supplemental response
only stated that a protective order would be necessary before production, not
that the request was overbroad or irrelevant. As discussed above, Plaintiff has
established good cause for the request. Defendant’s opposition does not explain
how the request is overbroad or irrelevant. The request is already narrowly
tailored to the System and Standard applicable to franchise owners and
operators as referenced in specific provisions of the franchise agreement. Defendant
also does not explain how its trade secrets would be exposed in the production.
Nonetheless, Plaintiff has agreed to enter into a protective order, which
offers adequate protection for any confidential information.  
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
response is GRANTED. Production shall be subject to a protective order. 
 