  Case Number:  19STCV37687    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LENNY & LARRY’S,
  LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
A&B INGREDIENTS,
  INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  19STCV37687
  Hearing Date: January 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for new trial 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 21, 2019, Lenny &
Larry’s, LLC filed this action against Defendant A&B Ingredients, Inc. The
operative Second Amended Complaint, filed June 6, 2022, alleges (1) breach of
the implied warranty of merchantability, (2) breach of the implied warranty of
fitness, (3) negligent misrepresentation, (4) fraudulent misrepresentation, and
(5) unfair competition. The complaint arises from the following facts.
            Plaintiff is a manufacturer of
health and fitness oriented food products, such as cookies. Defendant sells a
variety of ingredients to food manufacturers, including Plaintiff. The
particular ingredient at issue in this case is the antioxidant CytoGuard.
CytoGuard is a cultured dextrose powder (“CDP”). Plaintiff alleges that the inclusion
of CDP in its cookies caused the products to have an “off flavor” and “soapy”
taste, leading to customer complaints and forcing Plaintiff to discontinue
sales. Plaintiff contends that the cause of the flavor issue was the presence
of lipase in the CDP.  
            The matter came on for trial from October
16, 2023 to November 3, 2023, after which the jury returned a verdict in favor
of Plaintiff on the claim for breach of implied warranty of merchantability and
in favor of Defendant on the claims for breach of implied warranty of fitness,
intentional representation, and negligent representation. The jury further
found that Plaintiff’s damages were $0 for lost profits and $958,305 for other
damages. On November 27, 2023, the Court entered judgment for Plaintiff against
Defendant in the amount of $958,305.
            On December 22, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for new trial. Defendant filed its opposition on
January 2, 2024. Plaintiff filed its reply on January 9, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
            A verdict may be vacated, and a new
trial granted, on the following grounds to the extent they materially affect
the substantial rights of a party: (1) irregularity in the proceedings; (2)
misconduct of the jury; (3) accident or surprise; (4) newly discovered
evidence; (5) excessive or inadequate damages; (6) insufficiency of the
evidence; or (7) error in law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) “A new trial shall not
be granted upon the ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the
verdict or other decision, nor upon the ground of excessive or inadequate
damages, unless after weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the
entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or
jury clearly should have reached a different verdict or decision.” (Ibid.)

            A trial court has “no power to act
as a super juror and substitute its personal opinion for that of the jurors.” (Huy
Fong Foods, Inc. v. Underwood Ranches, LP (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1112, 1126.)
“The purpose of Code of Civil Procedure section 657 . . . is to allow the trial
court to grant a new trial on those rare occasions when the jury's verdict is
so at odds with any reasonable view of the evidence that judicial intervention
is required to avoid a manifest miscarriage of justice.” (Ibid.) 
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Weight of the Evidence
            Plaintiff argues that the jury’s
decision to award $0 in lost profits is contrary to evidence. “Lost profits to
an established business may be recovered if their extent and occurrence can be
ascertained with reasonable certainty; once their existence has been so
established, recovery will not be denied because the amount cannot be shown
with mathematical precision.” (Berge v. Int'l Harvester Co. (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 152, 161.) “Damages are, of course, limited to those proximately
caused by the wrong complained of.” (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff argues that the extent of
the soapy flavor incident was uncontroverted. Seven witnesses testified that
affected lots may contain between 25% to 80% soapy cookies. Plaintiff argues that
the impact of the incident was uncontroverted. Two customers testified that they
stopped purchasing Plaintiff’s cookies after eating an affected cookie.
Plaintiff’s expert, Professor Stanton, testified that the ingredient problem
hurts the brand as a whole and expected sales to go down if more people were
exposed to the flavor issue. Plaintiff argues that sales would not have
declined but for the flavor issue. Defendant’s expert, Mr. Dos Santos,
acknowledged an upward trend going into 2017 and testified that he would not
project a decrease in sales based on his analysis. But Plaintiff’s sales did in
fact decrease in 2017. Professor Stanton testified it was “more likely than not”
that the flavor incident caused the decline in sales because he could not
identify any “alternative hypothesis” to explain the downward trend. Mr. Dos
Santos testified that he could not explain the downward trend because he “did
not investigate specifically the reasons why it went down.” Lastly, Plaintiff
testified that it lost $450,000 from cookies that were produced but not sold.  
            On the other hand, Mr. Dos Santos
testified “that both models and assumptions that [Stanton] used were flawed and
the calculations associated with that are unreliable.” Mr. Dos Santos also
conducted an independent analysis and concluded that “there was no support for
the theory of economic harm that’s been put forward by the plaintiffs.” Mr. Dos
Santos testified that Professor Stanton’s calculations were “highly speculative
and unreliable.” Mr. Dos Santos identified potential alternative causes—such as
other complaints about the cookies, competition, a product recall, a class
action lawsuit alleging fraud, and COVID—that Professor Stanton did not account
for in his analysis. And while a broader timeframe suggests an upward sales
trend going into 2017, a narrower timeframe shows that some sales began
decreasing prior to the flavor incident. Mr. Stanton testified that “[t]here is
a theoretical basis to say we expected the product to be increasing [at an]
increasing rate” but acknowledged that “[t]here is no theoretical explanation
for the exact numbers that we used.”  
            Based on this conflicting evidence,
the cause of the flavor issue was not “uncontroverted” as Plaintiff contends.
Rather, the jury was entitled to credit Defendant’s evidence over Plaintiff’s
and reject the notion that CytoGuard CDP caused Plaintiff’s lost profits. The
jury was entitled to find that Plaintiff’s analysis was speculative and
unreliable. While Defendant did not affirmatively prove an alternative cause of
the sales decline, the jury could have reasonably concluded that Plaintiff
failed to account for other potential causes and that therefore Plaintiff’s
analysis was not credible and did not support lost profits. The Court does not
find that the “jury clearly should have reached a different verdict.” (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) This is not one of “those rare occasions when the
jury's verdict is so at odds with any reasonable view of the evidence that
judicial intervention is required.” (See Huy Fong Foods, Inc., supra, 66
Cal.App.5th at p. 1126.) Instead, the evidence supports a conclusion that
Plaintiff failed to substantiate the existence of lost profits “with reasonable
certainty.” (See Berge, supra, 142 Cal.App.3d at p. 161.) Therefore, the
jury was entitled to award no lost profits. The Court is satisfied that the
evidence, as a whole, supports the verdict. (See Barrese v. Murray
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 494, 503.)  
 
II.
Irregularity in the Proceedings
            Plaintiff argues that it was error
for the Court to exclude Trial Exhibit 2010 as a demonstrative, and then for
Defendant to argue to the jury that Plaintiff’s lost profits claim was
speculative when Defendant is the one that sought to exclude TE 2010. 
            However, TE 2010 was properly
excluded because it was not the same document used by Mr. Dos Santos in his
testimony, TE 2007. Plaintiff was still allowed to perform the desired
mathematical calculations in front of the jury and use demonstratives,
including TE 2007. Plaintiff just could not use TE 2010. Plaintiff’s
speculation that the jury would have awarded lost profits had it seen TE 2010 is
unfounded. 
III.
Destruction Costs
            Plaintiff argues that the jury should
have awarded $32,187.25 in destruction costs which were uncontested, for a
total “other damages” award of $990,492.25. Plaintiff introduced an invoice for
$32,187.25 in destruction costs (TE 1572), and Mr. Honnette testified that TE
1572 represented “payment for an invoice” for destruction costs (Def.’s Ex. 40
at 185:5-20). Defendant argues that TE 1572 is an invoice, not evidence of
actual payment. The jury was not required to accept or believe Plaintiff’s
evidence regarding the destruction costs. The Court does not find that the jury
“clearly” should have reached a different verdict. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion for new trial is
DENIED. 