   [1] The Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) Death  Investigation Report draws no conclusion as to what the police believe occurred.  One of the LAPD officers stated on the body worn video LAPD would be submitting  the matter to the coroner for an autopsy to determine whether there was any  foul play and for a liver test. However, Parents allege in their first amended  will contest that MV objected, as Amy’s purported spouse, to an autopsy and  that ultimately Amy was buried without an autopsy having been conducted.    [2] There is some reason to question, based on the  evidence provided, whether Amy’s death was her own decision or to what degree MV  was involved:            MV knew Amy had drafted suicide notes  before she died that left him as a putative heir to a very significant estate and  yet did not tell her family about them so they could come to her help. He  admitted - in response to a question about what experience Amy had tying knots  from which she could hang – that she had discussed with him different ways she  might kill herself, including whether she should do it from a roof or off a  bridge. It appears from texts and other corroborating evidence that MV returned  from Europe (where he was carrying on a relationship with Andreea Muste (whom  he had told he was not married)) specifically in order that he could thereby obtain  what he contended was his share of the sale of the Moreno property and or be  put on title to a $5 million plus house he wanted Amy to buy. In turn, a month after  her death, as was the subject of a prior summary judgment motion in the related  Probate case, MV transferred millions from different accounts of Amy as to  which he contended he was also an owner as her husband to accounts under his  control.            In addition, MV did not take Amy to a  physician when he knew that she was suicidal, though he admitted to LAPD he  should have done so - given his concern over her depression, constant shaking  and inability to speak - and testified at his deposition that his mother also  told him to take her to a doctor. He did not advise any of her family of her deteriorating  condition and what he did say to her sisters and Dr. Melvyn Yeoh (Amy’s sister Sophia’s  husband) was to say that she was improving. Further, he told the police that Amy  had left not him a note (“at least not right now”) – though he was aware she  had left him notes previously.            The Court has not been presented with  any alibi or other evidence showing where he was at the time of death in the  early morning. MV told the police he had returned from the gym around 7:15 a.m.  The Court does not know what if at all he stated at his deposition in this  regard.            The police officers also had questions  as to the circumstances of her death: They did not know how Amy could have hung  herself from the stairs where this may have required her stepping off some  platform or box so that she would then be hanging when she moved away from it.  From what the Court observed of the LAPD body worn video of their inspection of  the crime scene, the police questioned why there was no box or other similar item  under the stairs. One of the officers also questioned whether Amy could have  hung from a low stair - where the rope was lying - given her height and the  length of the rope. He speculated whether she might have choked from a rope  around her neck as opposed to from hanging.            Both Detective Cuevas and Officer  Murillo stated at their depositions that there was “something off,” “fake” or  “disingenuous” in the way MV was reacting to what happened and how he was  acting. Cuevas stated that it was if MV was pretending to cry but no tears were  coming down. Further, Cuevas thought it was odd that Amy was the same height as  where the rope was tied on the stairs, thereby making hanging unlikely. (MV had  taken Amy down from where he says she was hanging by rope under the stairs before  the police arrived.) Cuevas also noted that Amy had no “petechia” or dots in  her eyeballs that are typical when someone is hanging. Finally, he commented  that if Amy had been sleeping on the living room sectional sofa that night (MV  stated he saw her asleep on the couch when he left in the morning) it was  incongruous that the sections of the sofa were separated.             The foregoing is without drawing any  negative inference from MV’s seeming deletion of files in his cellphone.  (Parents contend it is not clear who wrote the notes, that they may have been  written at MV’s urging and or that he assisted her in drafting them and or  himself modified them. See analysis of MV’s cellphone in Belsome Decl.,  p. 4 and attached exhibits. ) (While MV contends that the notes are authentic  because he recognizes her handwriting, only her signatures are in handwriting.  The letters are in type.) The Court has not yet decided whether MV is guilty of  spoliation of evidence – which is to be decided separately on an upcoming  motion.    [3] See also Skylarsky v. New Hope Guild Ctr.  (2005) 806 N.Y.S.2d 448 (finding common-law duty of spouse to summon medical  aid for suicidal wife as a basis for liability in wrongful death action)    [4] Ultimately, Parents would have to show that MV was a  care custodian by “clear and convincing” evidence. (W & I Code sec. 15657) Whatever  greater burden this may place on Parents at this motion stage, it does not  change that MV must still meet his burden, or in the alternative, that Parents  demonstrate material triable issues.    [5] Comments on the bench are not necessarily the same as  final rulings. Key v. Tyler (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 505, 539, n.  16   [6]  As discussed below, that MV might be a “care custodian” is slightly different  issue to whether under the dependent adult statute Amy was under MV’s care or  custody for purposes of finding a “special relationship.” This is not because  MV is not a medical professional – a care custodian does not have to be a  medical professional either. See W & I Code sec. 15610.17(y) (the  catchall provision) The issue is that “neglect” is broadly defined to include “any  person” who provides “care or custody” to a dependent adult can be liable for  neglect. (See W & I Code sec. 15610.57; Winn, supra,  63 Cal.4th at 154)     [7] MV’s argument that the Court should determine as a  matter of law that MV had no duty to prevent Amy’s death is not what it is at  issue. As discussed in the cases, whether there is that special relationship  turns on the particular facts involved – that here are disputed. The Court  disagrees, for example, with MV’s discussion in the Reply of Oliver and Johnson,  supra, that those do not support finding a duty here: In Johnson,  where the officers were in a far weaker position than MV to avoid the suicide,  the Court still found a special relationship. Likewise, in Oliver, where  the Court again found a duty that could have avoided death, the defendant like  here took the decedent from a place where others could have helped (her mother  or her assistant) and took her to a place where he alone, at least according to  Parents, was able to have taken care of her. MV also argues that Parents must  rely on out-of-state authorities on this issue; however, MV did also in his  motion. The Court does not find that the courts Parents cite are any less  persuasive than those on which MV relies, as discussed herein.    [8] Whether MV is a surviving spouse for inheritance  purposes is at issue in the related Probate case.    [9] The Tate court notes that “the notion of  intervening or superseding cause…is really not a matter of causation, but an  attempt to spell out rules of law limiting the liability of a negligent actor…the  issue is merely one of the policy which imposes liability….The question becomes  one of whether the intervening cause is, in retrospect, so abnormal, and  irregular, so external, foreign and unrelated to the defendant’s original  conduct, that it should relieve him of liability.”  (Id., 180 Cal.App.2d at 908-909)   [10] In Corales, a middle school student committed  suicide after he and a few other students were reprimanded by a school  principal for leaving school without permission (to attend a protest.) The  district court found no intent by the school to hurt the student (as is alleged  against MV), as well as that the suicide was “unforeseeable and extraordinary,”  not just that there was no “uncontrollable impulse” to bar liability. Here, by  contrast, there is significant evidence to indicate that MV’s actions led  directly to Amy’s distress.            Another case MV points to where a suicidal  person discussed and wrote about her suicidal thoughts, negating a claim of  “uncontrollable impulse” was Lenoci v. Leonard, 189 Vt. 641 (Supreme  Court, Vt., 2011) In Lenoci, the Vermont Supreme Court affirmed an order  granting summary judgment against the plaintiff mother of her deceased daughter  and in favor of her daughter’s eighteen-year-old friend – who had no duty to  control behavior of the fifteen-year-old girl who slept with a nineteen-year-old  boy at a party and subsequently committed suicide. The high court rejected the  notion that an older school friend becomes in loco parentis by taking  her younger friend (still a minor) to a party. These facts and policy concerns  are wholly different to those here. Similarly, unlike here, as discussed above,  the Lenoci court found the suicide was not an ”uncontrollable impulse”  that would have broken the chain of causation if there had been a duty or custodial  “special relationship” that might create an exception to the limitation on  liability.    [11] MV apparently told Amy that he did not want to have a  child with her based on an anti-Asian prejudice on his part – potentially further  injuring her self-esteem. See also Min Syoung Song Decl.     [12]  Significantly,  in Tate, the Court of Appeal reversed the order sustaining a demurrer to  the complaint - to allow the plaintiff to allege whether the decedent was  acting under an uncontrollable impulse in committing suicide (and thereby  exposing the defendant to potential liability.) Similarly, how to apply the several  factors cited above that comprise the policy decision turns on the facts  involved in each case. Here, those facts are disputed. Not surprisingly, none  of these cases were decided by a motion for summary judgment. While only Tate  binds this Court, the Court still found the federal and out of state decisions  instructive and, as discussed, does not find that the rationale of those courts’  decisions is inconsistent with the reasons for this Court to deny this motion.    [13] The Court rejects MV’s argument that the Court should  disregard Miles’ opinions because one opinion is that MV qualifies as a care  custodian under the relevant statute. Miles provided a detailed declaration, over  thirty-two pages, referencing innumerable exhibits, and is far from  “conclusory.” Even if it is for the Court or jury to decide ultimately if MV  was a custodian, this is not a basis to strike the balance of his opinion that  provides considerable information to “assist the Court.” By contrasts, the  dentists did not provide any medical opinions as to her mental state, would not  have needed to do so as part of what they were doing and were in any event not  qualified to do so.     [14]  In addition, Parents offer competing evidence  that Amy was in any event not in a conspiracy to defraud her father. Instead,  they present evidence that the litigation with Amy’s father was premised upon  MV seeking some portion of the value of the Moreno property based on alleged  involvement in management of that lawsuit that Father, Rosenstock and Van Etten  dispute. The evidence suggests MV may have been the one who caused that  litigation, not Amy.        [15] The Reply’s seeming silence about what MV told the  police was revealing. It barely addresses MV’s many admissions. The video  demonstrates more than MV acknowledging merely that Amy was “deeply troubled.”    [16] In one of her suicide notes, Amy refers to her  relationship with MV as an “illusion.”    [17] Parents’ citation to a UCLA medical record dated  March 8, 2018 relating to increased stress during certain time periods and increased  anxiety and insomnia since her accident three years earlier does not evidence a  diagnosis of mental illness.   LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 

WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 

DEPT. 200

 

TENTATIVE RULING
ON MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 1 OF MING-CHAO HUANG AND MEI JUNG LIN TO BAR REFERENCE
TO EXPUNGED FOREIGN PROCEEDINGS

 

Ming-Chao Huang, et
al. v. Michael Velcherean, Case No. 18STPB11082 (related to Case No.
19STCV01901)

Hearing Date:
November 9, 2023, 1:30 p.m. 

 

 

STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS

 

          On September 29, 2023, Ming-Chao
Huang (“Father”) and Mei Jung Lin (“Mother”) (“Parents”) filed the
above-referenced motion. The motion seeks an order barring Michael Velcherean,
aka Remus Velcherean (“MV”) or affiliated entities, from offering an alleged
conviction of Father in a foreign proceeding, or conduct related to that
alleged conviction, to prove a disposition to engage in wrongful conduct or for
other purpose. 

          The motion is made on three grounds: 

          First, under Evidence Code secs. 787,
788 and 1101; namely, that an expunged conviction and underlying facts are
inadmissible for impeachment purposes. More specifically, Parents argue that
the conviction was not a felony and hence that Evid. Code sec. 788 (allowing use
of a felony conviction for impeachment) is not applicable. In turn, even if the
conviction was for a felony that under subsec. (d) of sec. 788 the conviction
was under the laws of another jurisdiction and that the witness has been relieved
of the penalties and disabilities arising from the conviction pursuant to a
procedure substantially equivalent to that referred to in subsecs. (b) or (c);
i.e., a pardon based on his innocence or a certificate of rehabilitation.  

          Parents rely on a Declaration of
Chang Hung Hung, a former Chief Justice of the Criminal Division of the Supreme
Court of Taiwan, and a judge for almost forty years. Hung addresses the police
criminal “no conviction” record issued September 20, 2022 concerning Father. He
indicates there is no distinction between a felony and misdemeanor in Taiwan
and concludes in para. 13 that under Taiwan law the certificate establishes Father
was never convicted in Taiwan, or, if he was, it would have been for no more
than a minor offense (punishment was waived, abolished or commuted to a fine or
community service). He notes that a conviction for a serious offense where the
penalty was imprisonment for a fixed term (and thus not eligible for
commutation) would remain on a police record. Further, he opines that, under
Taiwan law, if Father was convicted of a minor offense, he would be deemed “rehabilitated,”
and any such conviction eliminated from the record after five years. In
addition, he states that Taiwan has never had a right to jury trial under its
criminal procedures and that before 2003 defendants were not permitted to
conduct cross-examination of witnesses.  

           In turn, Parents argue that where
the conviction is inadmissible the underlying conduct is also inadmissible
under Evid. Code secs. 787 and 1101. 

          Second, pursuant to People v.
Coffey (1967) 67 Cal.2d 204, 218-219; namely, that a constitutionally invalid
foreign conviction is also inadmissible for impeachment. Where Taiwan does not
provide for a jury trial or at the time of the proceedings allowed Father an
opportunity to cross-examine witnesses, those proceedings cannot pass muster
under the Calif. Constitution. 

           Third, under Evid. Code secs. 210,
350 and 352; namely, the subject matter is not relevant to any issue, its probative
value is outweighed by undue prejudice and would needlessly cause a protraction
of trial.  The events related to Father’s
transfer of Yi Chuan shares to Amy and Sophia – about which the alleged
conviction concerned - occurred some twenty years ago. Securing the relevant
records to explain what occurred – which the motion contends was
uncontroversial – would require considerable time and expense and in turn
require that relevant records be translated. Witnesses would have to come from
Taiwan. Transfer of these shares is not the subject of the will contest - to be
tried before other related pending matters, including Parents’ Probate Code
sec. 850 petition (in which transfer of the Yi Chuan shares is at issue).   

          On October 27, 2023, MV filed
opposition to the motion. His response to these arguments is as follows: Father’s
conviction is relevant and admissible for impeachment purposes, and more
probative than prejudicial.  

          First, the Court should not rely on what
he views as the “speculative” opinion of Justice Hung, lacking in personal
knowledge or other foundation, where there is stronger more specific evidence: 

          Father will not himself admit in
response to discovery herein that he was not convicted of a felony. 

          Mother testified in an earlier
proceeding in this Court that she was informed Father was convicted of a
felony in Taiwan. (The transfer of shares arose due to Mother and Father’s
divorce.) 

          Moreover, Father stated in those same
earlier proceedings that the conviction in Taiwan was on appeal. 

          MV also refers to an investigator
report that claims Father was convicted in two separate cases involving forgery
of corporate documents, that judgments of conviction found Father guilty of
forgery of documents. In the first case, he was sentenced to five months in
prison. In the second case, he was sentenced to four months in prison, which
can be offset by fines. 

          MV argues that even if a misdemeanor
conviction is inadmissible evidence of the underlying conduct may be admissible
subject to judicial discretion. (People v. Chatman (2006) 38 Cal.4th
344, 373) Though forgery is a “wobbler” crime punishable as a felony or a misdemeanor
(People v. Gonzales (2018) 6 Cal.5th 44, 46), it is still significant
as it goes to Father’s truthfulness as a witness. (People v. Martinez
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1464 (conviction for a wobbler may be
used to impeach since a wobbler is regarded as a felony for every purpose until
judgment is entered “but if no judgment is pronounced it remains a felony). 

          MV argues also that the police
criminal record certificate does not itself reflect  “a procedure substantially equivalent “ to “a
certificate of rehabilitation and pardon” or dismissal of the proceeding. Parents
have not met their burden to show the conviction is inadmissible. 

          Second, Coffey, supra, does
not apply in this civil rather than criminal case.

          Third, the underlying conduct is
relevant to issues in Parents’ Probate Code sec. 850 petition. Specifically,
Parents seek rescission of the same agreement whereby Father gave Yi Chuan
shares to Amy. Further, Amy purportedly advised MV in one of her suicide notes
to be wary of Father seeking to dilute the value of her shares. MV also
contends these convictions would be relevant to Parents’ attempt in the related
civil case to also secure rescission of the same agreement whereby Amy also
received O’Tasty Foods shares.     

          On November 6, 2023, Parents filed a
reply brief. It adds several points, including the following: Father was not
asked in this proceeding whether he committed a felony. Mother’s testimony in
the prior case does not use the term “felony” and was “on information and
belief” and in turn is based on other testimony (of Catherine Ken) that may
have been based on a misleading translation. Mother is not able to testify in
this case due to her having suffered a stroke. The investigator’s report is
hearsay and what it contends is another level of hearsay. It does not provide a
record of an official proceeding that might be a hearsay exception. MV’s
reliance on Chatman, supra, for authority that a misdemeanor conviction
may be used for impeachment is relevant only to criminal cases. Conversely, the
rule in Coffey, supra, is not limited to criminal cases and applies
here.  Finally, that Father allegedly
“watering down” the value of Amy’s Yi Chuan shares is not relevant to whether Parents
may permissibly rescind their agreement to give Amy shares in either of these
companies or if even if there is any relevance it is outweighed by the time and
expense that would be involved in addressing issues related to the Taiwanese
proceedings.  

 

DISCUSSION 

          The ruling on this motion in limine is
solely for purposes of the upcoming trial of the will contest. The will contest
does not involve Yi Chuan shares. The Court will decide separately whether
evidence of any convictions of Father should be excluded on the 850 petitions (and
in the civil case) separately in advance of the trial of those matters – which
do address Father’s agreement to give Amy Yi Chaun and O’Tasty Foods shares and
in which Father will presumably be testifying and in which the agreement will
likely play some part of what is at issue. 

          The will contest involves principally
determining Amy’s testamentary intent. Though the Court has not been informed
of the precise issues to be decided in the will contest trial, from the first
amended will contest, filed March 30, 2021, it does not appear that Father’s
testimony will be critical. The Court has not yet conducted the Final Status
Conference nor have any witness lists been filed. From what has been filed, the
principal bases for the contest appear to be whether Amy lacked testamentary
capacity at the time, MV’s alleged abuse of Amy leading up to her death and compliance
with various statutory formalities. However, even if the Yi Chaun shares are
not directly involved in the will contest, Father may still testify at the will
contest trial and therefore the relevance of the alleged convictions remains at
issue for purposes of impeachment.

          With all due respect to a former
Chief Justice, and without questioning his opinion per se, his declaration still
draws a conclusion based on a negative inference from an unauthenticated police
report for which there is no foundation for its admissibility. The Court has no
information to assess the reliability of the police report, including what
procedures were followed as to searches of relevant court records of
convictions or subsequent proceedings. The report also does not state
specifically that Father was pardoned, otherwise deemed rehabilitated or paid a
fine instead of serving time. If Father was ordered to serve several months in
prison, whether that be a felony or a misdemeanor, it would still be significant
to this Court, especially where it is a crime involving dishonesty. Again, the
Court is asked to speculate as to what transpired precisely. An expert, however
well qualified, still must have some foundation for his opinion. 

          Conversely, the Court sustained the
evidentiary objections to the investigation report attached as an exhibit to
the declaration of counsel for MV. Even if the report were received, its
conclusions likewise lack reference to the underlying records. In short, this
Court is without sufficient information at least at this time to assess the
admissibility of the alleged convictions or whether they were expunged.[1]

          
Therefore, the Court denies the first basis for the motion. 

           The second basis of the motion is that a
constitutionally invalid foreign conviction is also inadmissible for
impeachment, pursuant to Coffey, supra. While it does not appear that
any convictions would meet the requirements for use in a criminal case in
California (i.e., where there was no jury trial or opportunity cross-examine
witnesses), Coffey was a criminal case and said nothing about whether
there might be a different result in a civil case. Parents do not cite any
cases showing this rule would be applicable in a civil case. The Court does not
reach this Constitutional issue involving complex considerations which the
parties do not address where there is insufficient evidence of the underlying convictions.


          Therefore, the Court denies the
second basis for the motion. 

          The third basis of the motion is that
introducing evidence of any convictions would be more unduly prejudicial than
probative under Evid. Code sec. 352. There is no question that Father’s
impeachment by way of convictions would be prejudicial and would be unfair
without giving him an opportunity to present evidence that he did not suffer those
convictions or that he was pardoned or rehabilitated. There may be such
evidence from what information the Court has received. At the same time, putting
on the necessary evidence to show that any convictions should not be a basis
for impeachment would undoubtedly require very significant time and effort and
extend even further already likely lengthy trial proceedings. Given what is
involved in the will contest, the Court does not find that effort would be sufficiently
probative of what is at issue. For similar reasons, allowing testimony
concerning the events underlying any such convictions would require even more
time and tip the scales even further against admissibility. 

 

CONCLUSION 

          For these reasons, the Court grants
the motion as far as the trial of the will contest. The motion is denied,
without prejudice, as far as the separate trials of the 850 petition and the
related civil case. 

 

DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________

                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN

                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 

 



