  Case Number:  18STPB11082    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES  SUPERIOR COURT  WEST DISTRICT -  BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE  DEPT. 200   TENTATIVE RULING  ON MOTION OF MICHAEL VELCHEREAN FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF FIRST AND SECOND  CAUSES OF ACTION IN THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT   Ming-Chao Huang, et  al. v. Michael Velcherean, Case No. 19STCV01901 (related to Case No. 18STPB11082) Hearing Date: November  9, 2023, 1:30 p.m.    BACKGROUND              This motion of defendant Michael  Velcherean, aka Remus Velcherean (“MV”), rests on the proposition that the  decedent Amy Huang (“Amy”) committed suicide on October 18, 2018. However, the  motion does not point to any coroner’s report or other official document  confirming suicide as the cause of death.[1]  Indeed, the opposition of plaintiffs Ming-Chao Huang (“Father”) and Mei Jung  Lin (“Mother”) (through her Guardian ad Litem Jackson Chen) (“Parents”) refers  to Amy’s death as an “apparent” suicide.[2] In  the interests of moving this case forward to trial and assuming for purposes of  this motion only that suicide was her cause of death, the Court reaches the  merits of the motion. As discussed below, the motion must still be denied even  if suicide was the cause of death.             On January 10, 2020, Judge Michael  Small sustained without leave to amend a demurrer by MV to the first and second  causes of action in the second amended complaint.            On December 4, 2020, Judge Small granted  Parents’ motion for leave to file a third amended complaint. At that hearing,  Judge Small stated: “There is no law that says husband must come to aid of wife….That  could be the winning argument at the end of the day. I think just at the  pleading stage, it is not on reflection.”            On March 30, 2021, Parents filed a  third amended complaint. The second cause of action for wrongful death sounds  in both negligent and intentional conduct by MV. (See paras. 71 and 73)           On September 8, 2022, Judge Small  overruled a demurrer by MV to the third amended complaint, holding that MV may  have had a “special relationship” with Amy over and above that of husband. Judge  Small also indicated that there was no known case holding that a spouse or  family member cannot be a care custodian and cited cases in which family  members and friends were found to be care custodians.            On July 24, 2023, MV filed this  motion detailed below. The motion was supported by a declaration of MV, as well  as of counsel attaching certain discovery responses.            On October 26, 2023, Parents filed  opposition to the motion. The opposition was supported by fifteen witness  declarations, as well as two declarations of counsel of record attaching  further evidence, including MV’s deposition testimony, as well as the  above-referenced body worn video from LAPD.            On November 6, 2023, MV filed a  reply.    SUMMARY OF CONTENTIONS  Motion  1.       Second  cause of action for wrongful death:  A.       MV had no legal duty to prevent suicide. This is  a legal issue amenable to decision on this motion. There was no “special  relationship” that would give rise to that duty. Spousal status alone does not  create that duty.  B.       MV was not the proximate cause of Amy’s death.  -           There is no evidence her death was the result of  an “uncontrollable impulse” for purposes of negligence. The suicide notes she  wrote and discussed with MV show that her death was a conscious planned choice  on her part.   -           There is no evidence of intentional conduct by  MV that was a substantial factor in her death.  Specifically, MV could not have been the cause  of Amy’s death when the letters stated that her mother and sister Sophia were  responsible for her death whereas MV was “the only person who loves me and  helped me and gave me a life I wanted.”    2.       First  cause of action for “dependent adult” abuse:  A.      Amy  was not a “dependent adult.” Amy did not have any “physical or mental  limitations that restrict[ed]…her ability to carry out normal activities or to  protect…her rights” for purposes of Welfare & Institutions (“W & I”) Code  sec. 15610.23(a). Amy held an MBA degree and developed and operated a cosmetics  business. She looked after a home, drove and went where she wanted and was in  the process of buying a house when she died. Amy was never diagnosed with  having any mental illness. Amy developed a suicidal ideation when she was  staying with her mother in May 2018.  B.      Even  if Amy was a dependent adult, MV was not a “care custodian.” MV contends he had  not assumed the required “significant measure of responsibility for attending  to the basic needs of (a dependent adult)” that “an able bodied and fully  competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.” (Winn  v. Pioneer Med. Group (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 164) MV is not a medical  professional or otherwise in a position to have undertaken the care or custody  of someone.   C.      MV  did not abuse or neglect Amy to cause her death.     Opposition  1.       Second  cause of action for wrongful death:  A.       MV had a duty to prevent Amy’s suicide. (Johnson  v. County of Los Angeles (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 298, 311) (wrongful death  action based on suicide existed when defendant failed to warn family members it  discontinued supervision of man known to be suicide risk) There was a “special  relationship and other circumstances” giving rise to that duty. (Brown v.  USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204 (ability to control danger  as to which victim expects party to provide protection can create special  relationship), Frausto v. Dept. Calif. Highway Patrol (2020) 53  Cal.App.5th 973) (finding special relationship where plaintiff is  particularly vulnerable and dependent on defendant who, correspondingly, has  some control over plaintiff’s welfare) One who creates or increases a risk of  harm or who occupies a special relationship recognized by common law or statute  has a duty to take precautions to prevent self-inflicted harm or death.[3] (People  v. Oliver (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 138)(taking charge of person unable to  prevent harm to himself and conduct creating risk of injury to victim gave rise  to duty to act) Marital status also imposes a spousal duty to provide care to  the other spouse, including monitoring a mentally ill spouse to safeguard against  injury. (Miller v. Woods (1983) 148 Cal.Ap.3d 862, 869, 877, overruled  on other grounds, 7 Cal.5th 955) The policy factors for imposing  a duty under Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 (such as  foreseeability of harm, connection between conduct and injury, moral blame,  burden and prevention of injury) are present here.  B.       MV was the proximate cause of Amy’s death.            For purposes of negligent conduct by  MV, whether Amy’s death was the result of an “uncontrollable impulse” is  immaterial where Parents contend MV’s conduct was outrageous and extreme and a  substantial factor in Amy’s death. Parents cite in this regard Pugliese v.  Sup. Ct. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1444, 1452 (domestic violence  includes psychological or emotional abuse of intimate partner, with goal of  maintaining control by subjecting victim to intimidation, isolation and control  over a woman’s life… which can create “disproportionate risks for…attempted  suicide.”) Parents point to MV’s admission that he  discussed with Amy how she might kill herself, failed to take her to receive  treatment as he acknowledged he should have and misled her family by saying her  health was improving.             There is also evidence of intentional  conduct by MV: A trier of fact could find that the actions MV took were solely  financially motivated, i.e., to take advantage of Amy’s vulnerability and fear  of abandonment to procure increasing amounts of money and other property from  her. The texts corroborate that MV stated he would return only if he was for  example assured that title to the home would be in his name.  2.       First  cause of action for “dependent adult” abuse:  A.       Amy was a “dependent adult.” -           A “dependent adult” is one with “physical or  mental limitations that restrict a person’s ability to carry out normal  activities or to protect that person’s rights.” People v. Matye (2008)  158 Cal.App.4th 921, cert. denied, 2 CACI 3112 (2008)   -           In re: Joseph G. (1983) 34 Cal.3d 429,  434, 437 (“one who attempts suicide is suffering from mental illness.”)   -           Attempting suicide is a statutorily recognized  basis for admission to a 24-hour facility and dependent adult status. (Welf.  & Inst. Code secs. 5150, 15610.23)  -           Dr. Miles’ testimony that “to a reasonable  degree of medical certainty” in the last few months of her life Amy suffered  from mental illness, was suicidal, in need of treatment and was a “dependent  adult.”   B.       MV was a “care custodian”: -           Care or custody under W & I Code sec.  15610.57 requires no professional standing or expertise. (Bernard v. Foley  (2006) 39 Cal.4th 794, 808-809, Estate of Odian (2006) 145  Cal.App.4th 152, 166) -           The Legislature intended the Act to address abuse,  neglect or abandonment by their families or caretakers. (Winn, supra,  63 Cal.3d at 162-163) The issue instead is whether there is “a relationship  where a certain party has assumed a significant measure of responsibility for  attending to one or more…basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent  adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.”  (Id., 63 Cal.3d at 158)  -           Courts have reached the same conclusion that  relatives can be caregivers in applying identical language in Penal Code sec.  368. (People v. Heitzman (1994) 9 Cal.4th 189, 204, People  v. Mannis (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 110, 116-117)   C.       MV’s abuse of Amy caused her death:   -           Abuse under W & I Code sec. 15610.07  includes neglect, abandonment, isolation or other treatment with resulting  physical harm or mental suffering and financial abuse. Neglect includes failure  of the caregiver to exercise the degree of care of a reasonable person in like  position, including failing to obtain medical care or to protect from health  and safety hazards.  Reply            In addressing the issues set forth  above, MV makes the following principal points: -           Parents did not provide evidence to establish the  “clear and convincing evidence” necessary to establish dependent adult abuse.  -           Dr. Miles’ testimony should not be considered as  he is not permitted to give a legal opinion.  -           MV’s declaration in support of the motion conclusively  establishes he was not in the type of “robust” custodial relationship that  would give rise to any liability for dependent adult abuse.  -           Parents’ reliance on out of state authorities does  not displace that Nally v. Grace Community Church (1988) 47 Cal.3d 278,  292-293 is controlling and entails here that MV could have had no duty to have  prevented Amy’s death. Other California cases also support that MV can have had  no duty to Amy under these circumstances.  -           MV’s statements to LAPD show only that Amy was  “deeply troubled” before her death.  DISCUSSION            In summary, MV has the initial burden  on this motion to show the absence of necessary evidence to support Parents’ causes  of action. If MV meets that burden, then the burden shifts to Parents to show there  is a triable issue of material fact related to why there is a valid cause of  action.[4]            Initially, the Court agrees with MV  that Judge Small’s rulings and statements on the bench do not bind this Court  in deciding this motion for summary adjudication, even if they are instructive.[5] The  undersigned is deciding this motion based on its own independent review of the  relevant evidence and law, consistent with the rulings made previously on other  issues to the extent applicable. The Court does not need to address why initially  Judge Small held for purposes of a demurrer a cause of action might not be able  to be stated for wrongful death where a person commits suicide. Similarly,  Judge Small’s order that there could not be an elder abuse in terms of deeming  MV - as a spouse - a “care custodian, or finding Amy could be a “dependent  adult” if Amy was engaged in some level of fraud (as MV asserted) is ultimately  immaterial where he then later granted leave to amend to do so – holding family  members had been found to be “care custodians.”             As discussed below, MV’s Declaration  is not sufficient to meet his initial burden - that there is no possible basis as  a matter of law to support these two causes of action, under CCP sec. 437c(p)(2),  as Parents argue he would need to show. (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87  Cal.App.5th 939, 945-46) Moreover, even assuming arguendo that MV’s  declaration met that burden, Parents’ evidence supporting their Opposition creates  a plethora of disputed material facts, as specified below in relation to MV’s  Separate Statement of allegedly undisputed facts. In turn, MV’s reading of the  applicable law – to the extent that can be done without reference to the facts  involved (which it does) - also does not make it impossible for Parents  to prevail on either of these causes of action.      DID MV HAVE A DUTY TO AMY THAT  MIGHT HAVE PREVENTED HER DEATH?            “A tort, whether intentional or  negligent, involves a violation of a legal duty…one is ordinarily not liable  for the actions of another and is under no duty to protect another from harm,  in the absence of a special relationship of custody or control.”[6] (Nally,  supra) (rejecting extending potential liability to non-professional  therapist in conjunction with providing religious services) “Mere  foreseeability of the harm or knowledge of the danger is insufficient to create  a legally cognizable special relationship giving rise to a legal duty to  prevent harm.” (Id., 47 Cal.3d at 297)                   “Other factors to consider in determining  whether to impose a duty of care on defendants include the closeness of the  causal connection between defendants’ conduct and the injury suffered, and the  foreseeability of the particular harm to the injured party.” (Id., 47  Cal.3d at 296)            In terms of potential liability for  wrongful death based on negligent infliction of emotional distress, MV’s  contention that because he was not counseling Amy, he did not have a duty to  Amy misses the point. Non-professional counselors do not have an automatic duty  either, per Nally. Applying the referenced factors to consider under Nally,  MV has not established as a matter of law that it is not possible based on the  facts presented that he did not have a duty to prevent her death when he was  aware of her suicidal ideation, including by her having written suicide notes, as  well as based upon what Amy’s stated expectations were as to his involvement in  her protection given the ostensibly close relationship she believed she should  have had with him as her husband. Further, MV has himself admitted that he  should have taken her to a doctor to address the indicia he described to the  police of her seeming acute depression.[7]              In terms of potential liability for wrongful  death based on intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff would  need to establish that the defendant’s conduct was outrageous and a substantial  factor in the decedent’s suicide. (Nally, supra, 47 Cal.3d at 301) Again,  MV does not present any argument why his conduct was not outrageous or a  substantial factor in her death. By contrast, Parents present a significant  amount of evidence to substantiate their claims that MV sought both Amy’s  emotional distress to take undue advantage of her vulnerability to take money and  other property from her and to put him on title to real property, as well as Amy’s  death to benefit from her financially as ostensibly at least her surviving  spouse.[8] If  true, this evidence would qualify as outrageous and could potentially be  determined by a trier of fact to be a substantial factor in her death.     DID ANY WRONGDOING BY MV  CAUSE AMY’S DEATH?            Assuming therefore that MV had a duty  to Amy to prevent harm to her as his wife, the Court will address whether there  is any evidence that his conduct was the cause of her death.            In the case of negligent  conduct causing death, suicide will be an intervening cause breaking the chain  of causation, except in the rare instance where a defendant’s extreme and  outrageous conduct can be established to be a “substantial factor” in the death  of another. (Tate v. Canonica (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d 898)[9] That  rare instance would be “if the negligent wrong causes mental illness which  results in an uncontrollable impulse to commit suicide…If defendant is to avoid  liability, the decedent’s act must be voluntary…in the sense that [s]he could,  in spite of [her]…mental illness, have decided against suicide and refrained  from killing [herself]…” Id., 180 Cal.App.2d at 915            Here, MV contends there was no “uncontrollable  impulse” on Amy’s part that he could have caused that might give rise to a  cause of action for wrongful death.            MV points to Corales v. Bennett,  567 F.3d 554 (9th Cir. 2009), where the Court (applying California  law) affirmed an order granting summary judgment that family members could not  be liable for wrongful death where the decedent had spoken with them about  committing suicide and had written a suicide note – showing that where the  decedent had the opportunity to appreciate the nature of his actions that this  belied any “uncontrollable impulse.” Corales is a wholly different  situation that did not turn on just this issue.[10]            MV also cites to Soto v. City of  Sacramento, 567 F. Supp. 662, 693 (E.D. Cal. 1983) (concerning a prisoner found  to have committed suicide in his cell after alleged excessive force by the  authorities) for the proposition that the key to determining causation “is  whether [the decedent’s] act was volitional.” While that is correct as far as  it goes, the District Court also stated in entering an order denying summary  judgment: “Thus relevant issues relating to the mental state of a person, since  always a matter of inferences, are peculiarly decisions for the jury and are  rarely, if ever, susceptible to resolution on summary judgment.” Id., 567  F. Supp. at 668             That factual question is present  here: Though, on the one hand, Amy writing (or at least signing) these letters  showed her death was planned and hence to a degree volitional, on the other  hand, Parents point to texts and significant other witness testimony demonstrating  Amy’s worsening mental breakdown. The Court cannot conclude as a matter of law that  her mental state was such that it still allowed to her to make a choice about  how to move forward with her life, or stated otherwise, that she was able any  longer to escape from her suicidal ideation (that Dr. Miles diagnosed as a form  of disease or medical condition). A jury might reasonably conclude that by when  Amy decided to commit suicide her actions were no longer truly “voluntary” and that  she was acting under the undue influence of MV. A jury might conclude she was  in effect just doing his bidding and that the only way she knew to escape what was  causing her significant distress was “involuntarily” to kill herself.             Further, though Amy was looking to MV  to resolve where they were to live, MV told the police that they had to move  out of the house in which they were staying on the day she died. Amy was under  pressure from MV to put his name on title to a home they were buying though he  was not fulfilling what she expected of having a husband, including his living  with her and having a child.[11]                The Court finds that there is a  triable issue of fact as to whether Amy was acting under an “uncontrollable  impulse.” While the Court recognizes that there may be at some stage a policy  issue here under the cited cases,[12] as  MV has argued, there is still disputed evidence as to her frame of mind that it  should be for a trier of fact to decide after hearing all the testimony and  evaluating their credibility. Per Tate, supra, the Court does not find  that the allegedly “intervening” act of suicide was so unrelated or foreign to  the alleged wrongful conduct that there is necessarily as a matter of law a  break in the chain of causation.            Moreover, even if there were no  triable issue of fact concerning whether suicide is an intervening event for  purposes of negligence, and the Court were to find any suicide was volitional,  this would not entail MV was entitled to summary adjudication of the wrongful  death cause of action:             Intentional infliction of  emotional distress causing death may also give rise to a cause of action for wrongful  death. The third amended complaint alleges intentional wrongdoing by MV. MV  asserts, however, that he could not have intentionally harassed her given the  positive view he had of her according to the letter she wrote (and  corresponding negative view of her mother and sister Sophia.) Even assuming Amy  wrote the letters (and MV had no part in influencing her in what she said -  which there is evidence to indicate he did), the texts Amy sent to MV during  the same time frame - or not significantly earlier - evidence that MV did not  give Amy “the life she wanted.” Her view of MV was not positive. As she stated  in the letter, and as the texts also show, Amy did not understand why they  could not live together, have a child together and why it was necessary  beforehand his being on title to a home.  Hence, the letter alone does not refute that  MV intentionally sought to hurt her emotionally. Likewise, that Amy was  critical of her mother and sister Sophia does not necessarily also mean that MV  could not have intentionally sought to harm her.            Moreover, there is significant  evidence that MV’s actions to harass Amy were intentional because it was done  to force her to pay over significant money to him or to transfer him property in  the hope that this would then lead to the life that she hoped she could have  with him.            Liability for intentional  injury causing suicide does not typically depend on the proximate cause  analysis applicable for negligent conduct. (Tate, supra, 180 Cal.App.2d  at 904) Specifically, “the notion of independent intervening cause has no place  in the law of intentional torts, so long as there is a factual chain of  causation.” (Id., 180 Cal.App.2d at 907) Hence, the Court goes on to  state: “We can see no good reason of policy that would relieve the defendants  of liability…if the suicide can be shown to have been in fact caused by the  type of injury that the defendants intended to inflict…merely because the  decedent ‘knew what he was doing’ when he killed himself.” (Id., 180  Cal.App.2d at 908)           Therefore, there is also a triable  issue of fact as to the cause of action for wrongful death based upon  intentional infliction of emotional distress.          WAS AMY A DEPENDENT ADULT?            A dependent adult is defined in W  & I Code sec. 15610.23(a), including generally persons who have “physical  or mental limitations that restrict his or her ability to carry out normal  activities or to protect his or her rights…”            MV argues this definition does not  include persons who suffer from depression or have a mood disorder and that  moreover there is no evidence that Amy was unable to carry out her normal  activities or protect her rights. He also relies on Amy having during this time  visited dentists who did not note any issues. Further, he points to a comment  of Judge Small concerning the allegations of Parents describing how Amy was  involved in a complex conspiracy with MV to defraud her father as incompatible with  her classification as a dependent adult.            By contrast, Parents present  substantial evidence, including the medical opinion of Dr. Miles, that Amy was  suffering from more than mere depression or mood disorder. He diagnosed her as  having borderline personality disorder (“BPD”) and requiring mental health  treatment.[13]  In turn, numerous percipient witnesses testified to Amy’s worsening paralysis,  including a disinterested witness like Offer who testified to her lack of  “affect.” None testified to any “mood swing” or what MV is presumably implying  to be something that was not serious or merely temporary. Dr. Miles also  presents rebuttal evidence to the notion that Amy could not be a “dependent  adult” if she was involved in “a complex conspiracy with MV to defraud her  father” – as was Judge Small’s initial concern.[14] Dr.  Miles indicates that a person with BPD may be exceptionally intelligent and  still experience the significant distress he determined she was undergoing and  be suicidal. For this same reason, that Amy went to graduate business school  and operated a cosmetics business is not inconsistent with his diagnosis.            In sum, there is a triable issue as  to whether Amy was a “dependent adult.”    WAS MV A CARE CUSTODIAN?           MV argues that there is no evidence  he “assumed a significant measure of responsibility” for attending to Amy’s  basic needs or that he failed to provide those basic needs. However, even if MV  attests to that contention, that is not the issue on this motion: The issue is  whether Parents can establish the claim that he did. There is nothing about  MV’s declaration that it can be the only evidentiary basis to make that  decision. By contrast, Parents point to other evidence that MV persuaded Amy to  leave her mother’s home where she was receiving attention and to come back to  him so that he could secure a home for her. In addition, they rely on his  admissions to the police that though he was her husband and observed her deteriorated  mental and physical condition on coming back from her mother’s home that he did  not take her to receive treatment as Amy had stated she needed him to take her  to obtain and that he stated his mother had advised him to do.[15] Further,  Parents present evidence that MV prevented Amy’s sisters from being able to  help Amy by falsely advising them that Amy’s health was improving when it was  not.             In sum, there is also a triable issue  as to whether MV was a “care custodian.”    DID MV PERETRATE ANY “ABUSE”?             To recover under the dependent adult abuse  statute, the wrongdoing cannot be mere negligence but must be “reckless, oppressive,  fraudulent, or malicious conduct.” (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th  23, 31)           Here, MV again asserts that there is  no evidence from which to infer any wrongdoing that would rise to this level.  By contrast, Parents point to substantial evidence they submitted that a trier  of fact might find outrageous and extreme, including but not limited to MV’s  admission that he discussed with Amy how she might kill herself, failing to  take her to receive treatment as he acknowledged he should have and misleading  her family by saying her health was improving. Further, the evidence as to MV’s  repeated and increasing financial demands on Amy, coupled with his seeming resistance  to having what she expected of a marriage (including co-habitation, loyalty to  her (see testimony of MV’s girl-friend Andreea Muste) and having a  child) and at the same time apparently holding Amy to keeping their marriage  secret a trier of fact might reasonably find to be oppressive, fraudulent or  malicious conduct on MV’s part that put her in an increasingly untenable  situation.            The Court concludes there is a  triable issue whether MV abused Amy.    SEPARATE STATEMENT   Fact No. 1: Disputed. There is at  least some evidence from which a trier of fact may infer that MV was not a  “surviving spouse” where it may conclude that the marriage was a sham, even if  there was a marriage license.[16]  All of Parents’ many witnesses contend that they did not know she and MV were  married. At all relevant times, they understood MV was an ‘on again’ ‘off  again’ boy-friend who for the most part did not live with Amy. Amy kept their  “marriage” secret and made numerous representations at different times that she  was single. In turn, MV admitted at his recent deposition that the timing of  their marriage was to facilitate his immigration status where his visa was  about to expire.  2 and 3: Undisputed. However,  according to Dr. Samuel Miles, these facts are immaterial in assessing Amy’s  mental condition, specifically, BPD.  4: Disputed. Dr. Miles provided an  opinion that “to a reasonable degree of medical probability” in the last four  or five months of her life Amy suffered from mental illness, was suicidal, in  need of treatment and or protective supervision and was a “dependent adult.” MV  himself admitted to LAPD, as well as Samantha Lin, evidence of Amy’s mental and  physical suffering “that restricted her ability to carry out normal activities  or to protect her rights,” as set forth above. Further, Amy’s suicide notes  indicate her belief she suffered from mental illness. The considerable witness  declaration testimony also corroborates Amy’s deteriorating medical condition. For  example, David Offer, the realtor who assisted in the intended purchase of  another home (as well with the earlier sale of the Moreno property) stated Amy “exhibited  no affect” and appeared to be relying on MV to handle the transaction.  5. Disputed. Dr. Miles also testified  to Amy’s inability to care for herself. Again, MV himself admitted he should  have taken her to see a doctor given her condition. In turn, Amy did ask for  MV’s help to meet her basic needs. Indeed, his history of refusing to provide  that assistance the text evidence in particular shows she was begging him to  provide Parents argue caused her death.    6. Disputed. MV’s admissions to  LAPD evidence an acknowledgment of responsibility on his part to have helped  Amy with fundamental needs, including medical care and housing. In turn, Amy’s  texts show she believed MV had responsibilities to her as her husband. The  Court does not, however, find Amy’s 2017 statement to UCLA designating MV as a  “Ride and Caregiver Arranged” as a sufficient basis to find MV was a care  custodian more generally. (Significantly, on the same form, Amy stated MV was  her “boyfriend.”)  7. Disputed. The evidence  referenced above creates a dispute as to Amy’s abilities the last three months  of her life with what MV states in his declaration. The Court infers that the  coloring book attached to the Declaration of her mother’s assistant, Julie Chen,  is offered as evidence that Amy was coloring to cope with her stress. Further,  evidence was previously offered one of her sisters had told LAPD that Amy may  have also sought to commit suicide while she was staying with her mother.  8. Disputed. What MV told LAPD, as  well as the testimony of the realtor David Offer, is inconsistent with MV’s  declaration testimony that Amy fully participated in the purchase of a new  home.  9. Parents’ witness declarations  (and specifically those of her sisters Joanna and Sophia and brother-in-law Melvyn  Yeoh and her friends Shirley Chien and Charn Sugimoto) rebut the claim that “[n]o  one who interacted with Amy during this time [the three months before she died]  perceived her to be unable to take care of her own basic needs.”   10. Disputed. MV told his mother that  he would care for Amy. As indicated above, Amy did need someone to look after  her – as demonstrated by her staying with her mother while MV was with his girl  friend in Europe. MV again himself acknowledged her need for him in what he  told LAPD about how he found her when he returned. As set forth above, a “care  custodian” is not required to be a medical professional. By marrying Amy, he  would have agreed to take care of his wife.  11. Disputed. Parents’ witness  testimony, together with MV’s admissions, create triable issues as to whether  MV neglected or abused Amy and or caused her death. The same evidence also  creates a triable issue as to whether he intended to cause her emotional  distress. Parents provide evidence based on which they contend he did so to  exploit her vulnerability to him to thereby extract money and other property from  her. The same evidence rebuts the claim he “did everything he could to help Amy…”   12. Disputed in part. Again, the  same evidence creates a dispute as to whether Amy suffered from any mental  illness that would limit her ability to carry out normal activities. That said,  there is no evidence that to MV’s knowledge Amy was ever diagnosed with a  mental illness by any medical professional.[17] That  the dentists did not perform a psychiatric assessment of her does not mean she  was diagnosed with a mental illness.  13. Disputed. The same evidence  creates a factual dispute whether in the last month of her life Amy was acutely  disabled, mentally or physically.  14. Disputed. The same evidence  shows that Amy left her mother’s home precisely because MV induced her to do so  by agreeing to assist with the purchase of a home. Therefore, it is also  disputed whether before Amy left her mother’s home MV committed to “providing  housing for her,” even if he did not commit per se to monitoring her health or taking  her to a doctor. Further, MV admitted to LAPD he had picked her up from her  mother’s home in Orange County, not that she drove herself to Los Angeles to  join him.  15. Disputed. Parents’ witness  testimony is to the effect that MV did “control her environment at the Kilkea  Drive House” in that Amy appeared to be unwilling to discuss her situation with  them when MV was present and purportedly “looking after her.” In turn, they  indicate MV reassured them that they did not need to be concerned about her  health. In turn, while Amy may have attended appointments with realtors,  the realtor they used was of the impression that she needed MV to handle  matters for her.  16. Disputed in part. Parents’  witness testimony rebuts the contention that Amy was able to obtain medical  care on her own, even if she was able to go to dentists. They contend that Amy  was unable to get herself to seek mental health treatment and believed it would  not do any good. Amy also herself stated: “when you are that sick you can’t go  see doctor on your own.” She states further she expected MV to take her to see  a therapist. MV also implicitly admits she could not do so by admitting to LAPD  that he should have taken her to see someone (thereby inferring she could not  do so on her own.) Undisputed that “Michael did not provide her with any  medication.”  17: Disputed. The same evidence  also refutes MV’s claim that he did not know or expect Amy would commit suicide  when he left that morning and was absolutely horrified when he returned to  discover what she had done. The LAPD testimony also disputes that MV was  “absolutely horrified” as to what had happened. The officers stated they  believed MV’s reaction to Amy’s death was “fake.” Finally, the Court does not  reach whether Amy committed suicide.  18. Disputed. Dr. Miles’ testimony  and the other witness testimony of Parents cumulatively supports the contrary  claim that Amy’s decision to commit suicide was done without “a full  appreciation of the nature of her actions” and was in fact the result of abuse  by MV and misrepresentations he made to her, notwithstanding what is stated in  the letters as the reasons why she was taking her own life. Further, that  evidence (including the declarations of her father, as well as of attorneys Rosenstock  and Van Etten) and offers a competing narrative as to the circumstances  concerning the prior litigation involving Amy, her father and her sister Sophia.   19. through 36. are identical to 1  through 18 and the Court therefore reaches the same conclusions.          CONCLUSION            For these reasons, the Court denies  the motion for summary adjudication of both causes of action.     DATED:                                                                                      _________________________________                                                                                                         DAVID J. COWAN                                                                                                         Judge of the Superior Court          