 Case Number:  KC070323    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
Arechiga,
et al., Plaintiffs, v. JDH Capital, et al., Defendants 
Case No. KC070323
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS
ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE OF PLAINTFFS AND OF DEFENDANTS, ON DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE
AND ON OBJECTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS AND DEFENDANTS TO CERTAIN PROPOSED JURY
INSTRUCTIONS
Date: November
9, 2023, 8:30 a.m. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 1: 
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude improper character evidence, pursuant to
Evidence Code sec. 1101, and matters protected by the Constitutional right of
privacy. They point to the following potential concerns they believe Defendants
will improperly seek to introduce to thereby taint the jury: drinking problems,
drug use, unemployment, bankruptcy, collection of benefits, race, marital
status, psychiatric treatment or sexual history. Plaintiffs believe that by
seeking recovery for emotional distress arising from the conditions Defendants
caused at the park they should not thereby expose themselves to inquiry into
their private lives.  
          In their
opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiffs are seeking to exclude more than is
what is  properly “character” evidence,
i.e., that which relates to a person’s tendency to act one way or another. In
addition, while remote instances of certain of the foregoing matters is likely
irrelevant, more recent instances of certain of the above-referenced matters
that are unrelated to issues at the park may also be a cause in whole or part
of a person’s emotional distress and they therefore they should be allowed to
inquire into those areas. Privacy is not an absolute prohibition against
legitimate inquiry but must be balanced against a party’s need to determine the
truth in the context of a trial. (Britt v. Sup. Ct. (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 855) They also reassure the Court that they do not now believe they have reason
to address these areas, except perhaps as far as employment or ability to pay
rent as potential causes of emotional distress. 
           The Court
finds as follows:
          LASC Local
Rule 3.57(a)(1) requires a motion in limine to include “[s]pecific identification
of the matter alleged to be inadmissible and prejudicial.” Here, a broad order
prohibiting introduction of character evidence does not meet that requirement.
The Court can address this concern if or when this issue arises by way of
hearing an objection. Similarly, areas as to which there may be rights
encompass a variety of areas that the Court cannot make a ruling concerning
broadly without knowing the context. That context may provide a valid conflicting
need to hear about a concern that might otherwise be private. Since this
concern is not tied to a particular issue, there is no reason the Court must
now make a ruling. 
DENIED 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 2:
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude evidence of insurance or other collateral
sources of payment. 
Unopposed. 
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 3: 
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude evidence of felony convictions, arrests,
incarcerations, and misdemeanor convictions as irrelevant. Specifically, they
argue felony convictions more than ten years ago are too remote in time, even
if otherwise permissible under Evid. Code sec. 788. 
          In their
opposition, Defendants indicate they had already stipulated to this exclusion,
with the exception of felony convictions for dishonest crimes. 
GRANTED IN PART. DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE AS TO FELONIES
PERTAINING TO FELONY CONVICTIONS THAT MAY GO TO THE TRUTHFULNESS OF A WITNESS
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 4: 
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude any evidence or argument that Defendants
could not afford to properly maintain the park. They contend that inability to
afford to make repairs cannot be a defense to a habitability or nuisance cause
of action, citing Knight v. Hallsthammer (1981) 29 Cal.3d 46. 
          In their
opposition, Defendants argue that even if this may be the rule for a nuisance
cause of action, ability to afford repairs may be a permissible impracticability
or impossibility defense to a cause of action for breach of contract or part of
the considerations for the propriety of a business decision that is put in
question by the cause of action for unfair business practices. 
          The court
finds as follows:
          Where more
than the cause of action for nuisance is before the jury, Defendants have a
right to present evidence concerning the costs to make the repairs in question.
As discussed below, however, by doing so, they may open the door to allow
Plaintiffs to put on evidence as to Defendants’ income from the park or their
financial condition. 
DENIED 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 5: 
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude Defendants’ photographs and videos which reflect
“bad housekeeping” in or outside Plaintiffs’ homes as irrelevant and more
prejudicial than probative. In the alternative, they request that they be shown
any such photographs before they are presented to the jury as part of an
opening statement. 
          In their
opposition, Defendants indicate they cannot respond to the motion without
knowing what photographs or videos are at issue. In turn, they contend photographs
taken by their appraiser, Scott Delahooke, are relevant to showing the
condition of the homes which is at issue in determining the market value of any
reimbursement to which Plaintiffs may be entitled. In addition, Defendants’
electrician expert, Walter Lane, took photographs of homes where several
appliances were plugged into an outlet by way of extension cords or power
strips – that is relevant to explaining the complaints concerning electric power
or overloaded brakers. Finally, defendants commit to exchanging all photos
prior to trial and therefore Plaintiffs will have an opportunity to object to
[articular photos or videos. 
          The court
finds as follows: 
          The motion
is too broad in seeking to exclude photos and videos that are not identified.
(LASC Local Rule 3.57(a)(1)) Defendants provide reasons why certain photos or
videos that may reveal “bad housekeeping” would be relevant. The Court will
need to see the photos or videos in question to determine if they unnecessarily
show how plaintiffs may keep their home, as well as other photos that may achieve
the same purpose without also raising this concern. Defendants shall disclose
to Plaintiffs what photos or videos they intend to show the jury in an opening
statement prior to commencement of trial.         
DENIED IN PART AND GRANTED IN PART.  
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 6: 
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude evidence of a person’s citizenship, immigration
status or country of origin. 
Unopposed. 
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 7: 
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude the use and admissibility of medical
records. 
Unopposed. 
GRANTED. 
 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion No. 8: 
          By this
motion, Plaintiffs seek to exclude Defendants’ experts who are duplicative of
other experts, and specifically, Lonnie Haughton, pursuant to Evid. Code sec. 723,
as well as from testifying as to inappropriate matters. 
Unopposed. 
GRANTED IN PART AS TO HAUGHTON. DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE,
AS TO UNIDENTIFIED “INAPPROPRIATE” MATTERS, PER LASC Local Rule 3.57(a)(1)
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 1: 
          The thirty-three
plaintiffs in this case bring a tenth cause of action for fraud against MZL
Properties (“MZL”), the management company for the prior owner of the Mobile
Home Park, Martin B. Goldman, successor trustee of the David and Esther
Weiswasser 2005 Trust (“Trust”) (which was the owner until October 2016), as
well as against Trust,[1] for
allegedly not disclosing an easement overlying part of the Park prior to buying
their mobile homes and entering into leases for use of space to place the homes.
By this motion, MZL seeks an order excluding any evidence that those eighteen plaintiffs
who purchased their mobile homes from third persons, i.e., as opposed to
directly from Trust (”Sales Fraud Claimants”), did not buy their homes from MZL
or that MZL approved the sales – which would be inconsistent with their
admission at their depositions that they did not communicate with MZL prior to
buying their homes and occupying the spaces. 
          Plaintiffs
oppose the motion on the basis that first, that this is a disguised motion for
summary judgment and hence improper and second, on the merits, that it does not
matter if third persons sold the homes to these plaintiffs because the
plaintiffs still entered into lease agreements with MZL. Plaintiffs allege
fraud not just in purchase of their homes (at least those who purchased their
homes from Trust), but also in entering into lease agreements for use of the
space to place the homes. Hence, even if Sales Fraud Claimants did not rely on
MZL personnel when buying their homes this is not to say they did not rely on
statements or omissions by MZL in connection with the lease agreements. Plaintiffs
contend they would have relied on the statements MZL was required under Civil
Code sec. 978.75.5 (the Mobile Home Residency Law (“MRL”)) to have provided at
least three days before entering into a lease agreement – which statements
failed to disclose the existence of the easement.[2] 
          MZL in its
Reply argues that it is not seeking summary adjudication of the fraud cause of
action but reiterates that the opposition fails to recognize that these plaintiffs
did not contact MZL until after they purchased their homes and therefore could
not have relied on MZL in buying their homes, as required for a fraud cause of
action. 
          The Court
finds as follows:  
          On the one
hand, the Court recognizes that MZL cannot permissibly separate the purchase
agreements from the lease agreements – consistent with the premises of the
Mobile Home Parks Act that mobile homes are essentially “immobile” and that it
is not feasible to move the homes elsewhere if the lessor of the spaces does
not meet its special obligations under a lease of space for a mobile home.  See Health & Safety Code secs.
18250 and 18251, as well as Galland v. City of Clovis (2001) 24 Cal.4th
1003, 1009-10 
          On the other
hand, even if MZL did not meet its obligations to plaintiffs pursuant to any
implied lease,[3]
for sake of argument, that does not also mean that these Sales Fraud Claimants can
recover for fraud against MZL based on purchase agreements with third persons. The
deposition testimony at least of the eighteen plaintiffs in question would also
appear to refute any claim that they advised MZL of their buying homes that
would give rise to MZL having to provide information under either sec. 798.74.5
or sec. 798.75.5 (that they contend would not have disclosed the easement). 
          That said, MZL
has not shown why an exclusion order is needed here to avoid any undue
prejudice to MZL if any of these plaintiffs testified that they bought their
homes from MZL or that MZL approved the sales when MZL can show on
cross-examination why this would not be true. Moreover, the Court is concerned
about having an order that applies to one set of plaintiffs but not to another
and its potential to unduly complicate trial. Further, it is not clear why Sales
Fraud Claimants are seeking fraud against MZL based on purchase of their homes from
third persons when they are also seeking fraud based on not disclosing an
easement prior to entering a lease with MZL. It may be that the purchase
agreements are not relevant at all if the claims based on a lease are relevant
(as discussed separately below). The Court wishes to discuss at the hearing on
this motion how plaintiffs intend to address differences between plaintiffs in
terms of avoiding a trial that is unduly long.    
DENIED 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 2: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude fourteen of the plaintiffs (“Lease Fraud Claimants”)
from testifying they entered a lease with MZL when in their depositions they
admitted that they did not apply for a lease from MZL when buying their homes or
not enter a lease with MZL until after buying their homes.
          In their
opposition, plaintiffs argue that it does not matter that MZL did not make any
representations to MZL or execute a lease because it still had an obligation to
disclose the easement if to do so would prevent full enjoyment of the leased
space, citing the above-referenced Civil Code provisions. Further, they argue
MZL admitted there was a lease when they gave plaintiffs a 7-day notice in May
2018 related to compliance with the Rules and Regulations, Rental Agreement and
Residency Documents. 
          In Reply,
defendants again point to the fact that the Lease Fraud Claimants had no
contact with MZL when buying their homes.  
          The Court
finds as follows: 
          Civil Code
sec. 798.74.5 is not applicable because Lease Fraud Claimants did not apply for
a lease with MZL. Civil Code sec. 798.75.5 is not applicable here because Lease
Fraud Claimants did not enter a lease with MZL. Civ. Code sec. 798.15 does not
imply a lease with MZL. The 7-day notice (from at least two years after they
purchased their homes) does not attach the Rental Agreement referenced and the
letter addresses the Rules and Regulations, not any Lease. Plaintiffs have
therefore not shown how MZL had an obligation to disclose an easement when Lease
Fraud Claimants purchased their homes.
           Moreover, it appears there may be no
evidence MZL itself knew of the easement when these plaintiffs bought their
homes, or reasonably could have known of the easement (if it was not on a title
report) and hence whether it is relevant for the Court to hear any evidence as
to any such obligation to inform plaintiffs of the easement. The Court wishes
to discuss this issue further in conjunction with the scheduled Final Status
Conference. If evidence based on a lease obligation would not be relevant, this
also may impact the Court’s conclusion as to defendants MIL no. 1. 
GRANTED
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 3: 
Withdrawn 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 4: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude any evidence that was not produced in
response to discovery demands. 
          In their
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the motion is premature because in a nuisance
case the violations may continue after filing of the case, evidence of which
would be admissible, citing Renz v. 33rd Dist. Agricultural Ass’n
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 61, 67. They also contend such evidence
should be allowed to refresh a witness’ recollection. 
          The Court
finds as follows:
          Renz,
supra, does not discuss what obligation the plaintiffs would have to nonetheless
produce documents before trial as to any continuing acts of nuisance that were
not alleged in the relevant pleading. The Court does not know if plaintiffs are
alleging continuing issues not previously disclosed or if defendants have
sought to compel production of documents since the earlier production, as is
customary. This would be particularly important in this case that has been
awaiting trial for a long time. Regardless, defendants should not have to face
issues at trial that were not reasonably disclosed beforehand. In turn, it is
not clear why a witness’ recollection could not be refreshed with documents
that have been produced already. 
GRANTED 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 5: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude evidence of management by defendants of
mobile home parks, other than the park at issue here, that they either own or
manage as irrelevant. 
          In their
opposition, plaintiffs assert that such information would go to knowledge of a
dangerous condition or risk or of a common contributory factor, as well as
pertaining to their request for punitive damages. 
          The Court
finds as follows:
          Under Evid.
Code sc. 352, the probity of evidence of management of other parks would be
outweighed by the undue consumption of time involved where the Court would
likely need to hear about the unique aspects of other parks. The Court can hear
about defendants’ level of expertise in management without going into issues at
other parks. The Court will be bifurcating that part of the trial, if any,
related to punitive damages. The Court can reconsider this issue for that
purpose at that time, if necessary.  
GRANTED
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 6: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude any parol evidence to vary the terms of the
written lease agreements. Specifically, they seek to prevent testimony,
contrary to the terms of the leases, that defendants could not raise the rent
or that plaintiffs were not permitted to inspect the space prior to leasing the
space. 
          In their
opposition, plaintiffs argue that there are several exceptions under Code of
Civil Procedure sec. 1856 that allow parol evidence, notwithstanding that the
lease may be fully integrated. 
          The Court
finds as follows:
          The Court
will need to hear during trial whether there is sufficient basis to hear
evidence that might vary the terms of the leases. Defendants may revisit this
issue during trial if there is concern that there is no basis to hear certain
offered parol evidence. In a vacuum, however, the court cannot now before trial
exclude all such potential evidence. 
DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE  
 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 7: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude any lay opinion testimony that repairs or
improvements to plaintiffs’ homes were necessitated by conditions at the park,
citing to Evidence Code sec. 800 – limiting non-expert opinion testimony to
that which is “rationally based on the perception of the witness” and “helpful
to a clear understanding of his testimony.” They also note that plaintiffs have
not designated a general contractor to provide an expert opinion, only a civil
engineer and electrician. 
          In their
opposition, plaintiffs identify numerous cases that illustrate the scope of
Evid. Code sec. 800’s allowance of lay opinions related to matters that are
likely appropriate in the context of this case whereby a homeowner explains simply
why he or she made certain improvements to their homes – that does not rise to
the level of purporting to provide expert testimony. See for example Easton
v. Strassburger (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 90, 106 (“It does not require an
expert to explain to the jury the relationship between uneven floors and the
possibility of unstable soil…”) 
          The Court
finds as follows:
          A broad
order excluding all such testimony is not required at this stage. Plaintiffs
can provide lay opinion testimony, within the parameters of sec. 800, related
to repairs they made to their homes. The Court does not perceive at this point
that this proposed lay testimony is being used to avoid having to designate a
general contractor expert witness. Moreover, such testimony would be expected
as part of plaintiffs’ setting forth the basis of their case, as well as
foundation for those other experts they have designated, as may be needed under
Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665. 
DENIED 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 8: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude evidence of their financial status and
profitability, under Evid Code sec. 352 and Civil Code sec. 3295(a). 
          In their
opposition, plaintiffs argue that one of the issues at trial will be whether
there was a “substantial failure of the management to provide and maintain physical
improvements in the common facilities in good working order and condition…”
under Civil Code sec. 798.87(a). They argue that they should be able to put on
evidence of the park’s finances, such as its net income from rent and utility
charges, after expenses and costs are paid, and other financial sources that
would be available to pay to maintain, repair and replace its utility systems. 
          The Court
finds as follows:
          Plaintiffs
should be able to prove that there was a substantial failure to maintain the
park by way of putting on evidence related to what they contend are the poor
conditions at the park. They do not need to put on evidence that defendants had
the financial means to make necessary repairs. Putting on such evidence would
put defendants to potential undue prejudice with little to no probative value,
for purposes of Evid. Code sec. 352. Further, determining that financial status
is also likely to require an “undue consumption of time,” including
understanding the park’s accounting. If, however, defendants contend they did
not have the funds to make repairs, the foregoing is without prejudice to
putting on such evidence in rebuttal. In turn, Civil Code sec. 3294(d)
prohibits the introduction of such evidence absent a finding of oppression,
fraud or malice. As set forth below, the Court bifurcates trial so that the
jury can make its findings in this regard. If it does so, the Court can then
revisit plaintiffs seeking this information thereafter. 
GRANTED
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 9: 
          By
this motion, defendants seek to exclude incidents or events occurring beyond
the statute of limitation. Defendants point out what the relevant dates would
be for purposes of the different causes of action, each with its separate
statute. 
          In their
opposition, plaintiffs argue that though they may not seek damages for claims
accruing prior to the bar of the statute of limitations, they can still
introduce such evidence to show long certain problems have existed or how long
defendants have known about them, citing to cases allowing such evidence for
purposes of showing aggravation or mitigation for penalties, to show conspiracy
or for background purposes. 
          The
Court finds as follows:
          As discussed
above, the consequences of defendants having acted with oppression, fraud or
malice – such as facing penalties - are bifurcated and will be decided
separately. Similarly, there is no claim here of conspiracy to commit the acts
involved that might have preceded the acts themselves. In turn, it is not clear
why prior background is necessary if the events occurred in a period not barred
by a statute. To allow such evidence would defeat the purpose of the statute
and provide a potential for holding defendants responsible for conduct that is
now time barred.   
          It is
unclear what conduct or sales would thereby be time barred. In turn, the
parties should meet and confer as to what the relevant dates would be in this
regard. The parties should address this at the FSC. 
GRANTED 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 10: 
 
Withdrawn 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 11: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude the expert testimony of Bryan Kimball as to
insufficient lighting at the park. The motion is made upon two grounds: 
            First, Kimball
testified at his deposition that the park’s lighting did not violate the
minimal lighting standards set forth in Title 25 (namely, meeting the 0.2
horizontal footcandles standard throughout the traversable area); specifically,
 that the number and type of overhead LED
fell “within the acceptable level as square footage and that the total average
for the park falls within the acceptable luminosity range required. On this
basis, they contend that the lighting issue should be excluded as irrelevant
and that he should not be able to testify to any lighting issues as to do so
would be unduly prejudicial. 
          Second, Kendall
testified that he has not observed or tested the lighting during nighttime
hours when they would be in operation and does not know how dark the park would
be at night due to ambient lighting. On this basis, they contend any testimony
on his part would be speculative.  
          In their
opposition, plaintiffs argue that Kimball provided two opinions he should be
able to give: first, that the light output and type of fixture are not the
correct type for this park, and second, that lighting at the park was not
correct as the lights were too far apart to provide correct light distribution.
The Type 3 light shines a bright spot straight down whereas a Type 1 fixture
would be more of an oval light pattern that would then provide an overlapping light.

          The Court
finds as follows:
          Plaintiffs
do not dispute Defendants’ second point that Kimball has never seen how the
lighting operates at night. They also do not contend that Kimball could have a
foundation for his opinions without having seen how the lighting works at night
at this park. This is significant where Defendants also indicate there may be
ambient lighting that lessens the need for overhead lighting. While it is
conceivable that an expert looking at the lighting during the daytime might be
able to assess what the lighting would look like at night, the Court concludes
that such assessment is without reasonable basis and would ultimately be
speculative. The Court has a duty to act as a gatekeeper to avoid speculative
testimony of experts that a jury might give credence. If an expert intends to
come into a courtroom to offer his expertise it is fundamental that he should
at least have observed how the lighting worked at night. 
          Moreover, it
appears Kimball still ultimately believed the average lighting did meet
regulations, even if a different type of fixture might have been preferable. As
such, it is unclear what relevance his testimony would have. 
GRANTED 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 12: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude the expert testimony of Bryan Kimball as to the
sufficiency or design of the electrical system at the park to meet current
demands. They contend he should not be able to give an opinion because though
he is licensed electrician he is not an electrical engineer, he has not been
involved in the design of a mobile home park electrical system, he has no
special training related to mobile home park requirements, he has not done
electrical work in a mobile home park since 2003 or 2004, he has not installed
electrical panels in a mobile home park and has not installed a mobile home into
a park. 
          In their
opposition, Plaintiffs point to his deposition testimony that the system is
overloaded where mobile homes are now using 50-amp 240-volt services in their
homes as opposed to 30-amp 120-volt receptacles that were the norm when the
system was designed. They argue also that his qualifications go to the weight
to his testimony as opposed to being a basis to disqualify his testifying
altogether. 
          The Court
finds as follows:
          It is not
clear to the Court that Kimball’s intended opinion requires expertise beyond
that of a licensed electrician. The different points Defendants make concerning
his expertise go to the weight a jury should give his opinion. There is nothing
here that would be a basis to disqualify him. 
DENIED 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 13: 
          By
this motion, Defendants seek to exclude expert testimony of Thomas Newsom
concerning the location of the LACFCD easement or of the encroachment thereon. They
contend that the expert witness designation does not include a statement that
he would be testifying on this subject. They cite portions of his deposition
testimony, however, that indicate he has an opinion as to which units encroach
on the easement. They contend that such opinions are speculative where Newsom did
not know the extent of the easement from the documents he had reviewed and that
the only way to do so would be by a survey that he had not conducted. 
          In their
opposition, Plaintiffs quote Newsom’s answers to questions as to the basis for
his opinion as to the encroachment that refer to various aerial photographs of
the park that indicate various markers. They also allude to his providing an
opinion as to the sewer/septic problems. 
          The Court
finds as follows:
          The fourth
amended joint witness list filed April 28, 2022 does not indicate that Newsom
will be testifying as to the easement or any encroachment, rather only as to
the sewer system. Even if the Court overlooked that plaintiffs had not
designated Newsom as an expert on this issue, where Defendants had an
opportunity to depose him on his opinions in this regard, the Court is still
concerned that there is not a reasonable basis for him to provide an expert
opinion on this subject. His own testimony appears to indicate that without a
survey (that he did not conduct) he cannot give a definitive opinion. That there
were other documents he may have relied on for what opinion he does have does
not give the Court confidence that those provide sufficient foundation. The
court requires that any such opinion be definitive where this will impact what
units may encroach on the easement – and thereby impact the amount of potential
damages. Moreover, it is unclear to the Court how even if had some opinion on
this subject that ultimately such opinion is immaterial where there is no
evidence that he knows what LACFCD is contending. According to Defendants’ trial
brief, it is not known what LACFCD is contending as to the scope of the
easement and there are no relevant documents identifying the scope. Without
that information, it is not clear that there would be sufficient basis for any
decision in this regard. Though a representative of the LA County Dept. of
Public Works is on the witness list, that could not fairly be a basis for
Newsom to then have an opinion on this issue. 
          Nothing
herein precludes Newsom testifying to the sewer/septic issues as to which he
was designated.  
GRANTED
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 14: 
 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude the testimony of Jose A. Galan Lopez and Alejandro
Rascon, non-retained expert witnesses that Plaintiffs intend to call. The
motion is made upon the basis that neither person appeared for their
deposition, though personally served with subpoenas to appear. The motion
attaches the proof of service and certificate of non-appearance. 
          In their
opposition, Plaintiffs withdraw Lopez as a non-retained expert. They argue as
to Rascon that Defendants should have filed a motion to compel compliance, that
there was not a “meet and confer” prior to filing the motion and that there is
no requirement to identify witnesses before trial. 
          The Court
finds as follows: 
          None of
Plaintiffs’ arguments have merit: While a motion to compel compliance might
have made sense if the deposition was of a party to the case, here Rascon is a
non-party and Plaintiffs have not shown that a motion to compel compliance is a
pre-requisite. Defendants have done what was required. If Plaintiffs still wish
to call him (and he is on the witness list), the burden was on them to make him
available for deposition. They have not done so. Defendants have shown they did
meet and confer. This Court’s Local Rules require parties to pre-designate witnesses
in long cause cases such as this. 
GRANTED 
 
Defendants’ Motion No. 15: 
          By this
motion, Defendants seek to exclude expert testimony of real estate appraiser Robert
Caringella related to how a jury would quantify a reduction in rent, loss of
use and enjoyment of a home or home value. This testimony would only advise
them about how they might evaluate damages as opposed to providing any express
opinion quantifying what amount they should find as damages for these losses. Defendants
argue that such testimony would offer no information that would require expert
testimony and instead merely offers a commonsense conclusion that if property
is not what it could be because of some negative quality it will be worth less
than it might otherwise, citing by analogy Lynn v. Tatitley Support Services
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1096, 1116 (exclusion of medical testimony that
lack of sleep causes fatigue) They argue also that providing any further
opinion quantifying that loss after hearing the evidence would unfairly
surprise Defendants and breach the requirement that all opinions be provided at
the deposition of the expert. Caringella had sufficient opportunity before his
deposition to find out what other experts were going to testify as to the
conditions or review the plaintiffs’ depositions.  
          In their
opposition, Plaintiffs first argue that the motion must be denied because there
was no “meet and confer” before filing of the motion. On the merits, they argue
that Caringella is permissibly offering a valuation methodology for the jurors
in determining what reduction to make for defects with the park and that reduction
in value was a subject on which an expert could testify in comparing the value
of properties under Evid. Code sec. 816. They cite to Michaels v. Greenberg
Traurig (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 512, 523 for the proposition that
the court in acting as gatekeeper should act cautiously in excluding expert
testimony and that the “focus must be solely on principles and methodology, not
on conclusions they generate.” Finally, they note that Caringella did perform
an appraisal of the units that is attached as Exhibit 2 thereto. 
          In their reply,
Defendants initially acknowledge that they inadvertently failed to meet and
confer on this motion, though they did as to all others, but indicate based on
the opposition that it would not have avoided the motion. They also clarify that
they do not seek to exclude Caringella from providing testimony as to his appraisal
of certain units at the park that is attached to the opposition. They instead
argue further that Caringella may not permissibly offer “additional” opinions
based on information learned at trial that would quantify his opinions, that
the general testimony offered at his deposition are “merely assertions that
rest on common knowledge rather than on matters of type reasonably relied upon
in forming an expert opinion,” citing Sargon Enterprises v. Univ. So. Cal.
(2012) 55 Cal.App.4th 747, 770. Significantly, they point to form
jury instruction (CACI No. 4342) that already advises jurors on how to assess damages
for reduction in rent based on breach of habitability. Finally, they urge that
they should not be subjected to surprise at trial by way of an expert who is a
“moving target” in terms of an opinion he has not yet formed but which exceeds
what he was required to have provided at his deposition.   
          The Court
finds as follows: 
          The failure
to meet and confer was not prejudicial to Plaintiffs and would not in this
instance have avoided the filing of the motion. It is in all persons’ interests
for these issues to be decided before trial. Caringella merely testifying that
loss of use should result in payment of less rent or reduced value is commonplace
information not a “methodology” requiring expert testimony. Caringella has not
provided an opinion that might help jurors quantify by what amounts it could
assess damages for loss of use or reduced value. Merely stating a rudimentary
method (using an unstated percentage) is not to give an opinion. Instead, he
would be effectively advising the trier of fact what it should do – precisely what
an expert may not do. Plaintiffs misread Michaels, supra, concerning a focus
on methodology. The point there was to determine whether a reasonable
methodology was to be used; the issue here is that there is no opinion even if
there may be a method. Defendants should not have to wait until the middle of
trial to learn what his opinions might now be as to how to quantify that loss. Caringella
could have provided those opinions at his deposition if he wanted to do so. (Kennemur
v. State of Calif. (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 907, 920)
          By this
ruling, the court is not excluding testimony as to the appraisal opinion
attached to the opposition. 
GRANTED 
 
Defendants' Motion to Bifurcate Punitive Damages 
          Defendants
bring this motion, as well as for a protective order concerning their income or
profits before any finding is made that they are guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice, pursuant to Civil Code secs. 3294 and 3295. 
          Plaintiffs
oppose the motion on the same basis as they opposed Defendants Motion in Limine
No. 8, as discussed above. 
          The court
reaches the same conclusion. 
GRANTED 
 
Plaintiffs’ Objections to Defendants’ proposed Jury
Instructions 
 
Plaintiffs have not provided the basis for their previously
asserted objections to Defendants’ proposed instructions. Plaintiffs shall do
so by November 9, 2023. 
 
Defendants’ Objections to Plaintiffs’ proposed Jury
Instructions
On September 29, 2023, Defendants filed their Objections to
Plaintiffs’ requested Special instructions, setting forth the basis for doing
or indicating that plaintiffs had withdrawn the request. In addition,
plaintiffs filed a brief re: jury instructions, stating they will either amend
or withdraw certain special instructions, as well as arguing why other of their
proposed instructions are proper. 
The Court orders that plaintiffs file an amended set of
proposed instructions wherein they either withdraw or amend the relevant
instructions. They should do so by November 9, 2023. The Court will then rule on
the objections to that revised set of instructions.  
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 
 


