  Case Number:  20STCV02458    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR
COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                                      Wednesday,
April 17, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 19
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
L.O., et al. v. Manhattan Beach
Unified School District, et al.
            20STCV02458
1.      Manhattan
Beach Unified School District’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 Manhattan Beach Unified School District’s
Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of
Issues is denied. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff
L.O., through his guardian ad litem Jules Laird, filed his Complaint on January
21, 2020. Plaintiff’s operative Third Amended Complaint was filed on January
18, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Minor Plaintiff, L.O., who has
a disability, alleges that an instructional aide (“(Debra) Jane Doe”) employed
at Jonas Salk Elementary School (“Salk”), a school within the Hawthorne Unified
School District (“HUSD”), committed acts of physical assault upon Plaintiff on
January 23, 2019. Plaintiff alleges that Manhattan Beach Unified School
District (“MBUSD”) is his home district charged with providing him with a free
and appropriate special needs education because his parents reside within the
jurisdictional boundaries of MBUSD. Plaintiff alleges that pursuant to an
agreement and master contracts among MBUSD, Salk, and HUSD, MBUSD enrolled L.O.
to Salk. Individual Defendants Michael D. Matthews (“Matthews”), Megan Locklear
(“Locklear”), and Michelle Sumner (“Sumner”) were former or current employees
of MBUSD. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Negligence; 2.
Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision; 3. IIED.
 
MBUSD’s
demurrer to the third amended complaint was overruled, in part, and sustained,
in part. The demurrer to the first cause of action was overruled and the
demurrer to the second and third causes of action was sustained with leave to
amend. However, Plaintiff did not amend the second and third causes of action.
 
Objections
 
Defendant’s
objections 1 to 5 are sustained.
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment and/or Adjudication

The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467.
 
“A
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendant
moves for summary judgment as to the Third Amended Complaint on the grounds
that there is no triable issue of material fact, and that Defendant is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law. Alternatively, Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of each of the following purported issues: 1. “Plaintiff’s cause
of action for negligence against MBUSD has no merit because Plaintiff cannot
establish one or more elements of this cause of action.” 2. “Plaintiff’s cause
of action against MBUSD has no merit because Plaintiff cannot establish that an
act or omission of MBUSD caused his injuries.”  The Court notes that these are not really
causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty
that are proper “issues” for adjudication under CCP § 437c(f)(1), but instead
simply grounds for adjudicating the sole cause of action for negligence
remaining against Defendant. The first “issue” simply states that an
unspecified element or elements of the cause of action cannot be established.
The second “issue” narrows down that element and specifies the element as
causation.
 
            First Cause of Action for
Negligence
 
As
to the first cause of action, the elements of a cause of action for negligence
are duty, breach, causation, and damages. Johnson
v. Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 78. School districts and their
employees have a duty to supervise their students, and either a lack of
supervision or ineffective supervision can constitute a breach of the duty of
care.  See, C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 869-70. 
 
“The
determination whether a duty exists is an issue of law.”  Chee v.
Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1369.  Defendant has not met its burden to show that
no duty exists as a matter of law.  Thus,
the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue
exists as to the issue of Defendant’s duty.  CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
Gov.
Code, § 895 states:
“As
used in this chapter “agreement” means a joint powers agreement entered into
pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 6500) of Division 7 of Title 1
of the Government Code, an agreement to transfer the functions of a public
entity or an employee thereof to another public entity pursuant to Part 2
(commencing with Section 51300) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the Government
Code, and any other agreement under which a public entity undertakes to perform
any function, service or act with or for any other public entity or employee
thereof with its consent, whether such agreement is expressed by resolution,
contract, ordinance or in any other manner provided by law; but “agreement”
does not include an agreement between public entities which is designed to
implement the disbursement or subvention of public funds from one of the public
entities to the other, whether or not it provides standards or controls
governing the expenditure of such funds.”
 
Gov.
Code, § 895.2 states, in relevant part:
“Whenever
any public entities enter into an agreement, they are jointly and severally
liable upon any liability which is imposed by any law other than this chapter
upon any one of the entities or upon any entity created by the agreement for
injury caused by a negligent or wrongful act or omission occurring in the
performance of such agreement.”
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that MBUSD and HUSD “entered into an agreement wherein HUSD,
rather than MBUSD, performed the functions, services, and acts necessary to
provide L.O. the special education and services specified by MBUSD in L.O.’s
IEP.”  (TAC, ¶ 5.)  Thus, Plaintiff alleges that an agreement was
made pursuant to Gov. Code § 895, and that pursuant to Gov. Code § 895.2, the
public entities are jointly and severally liable upon any liability which is
imposed upon any of the public entities based on the acts and omission of the
employees of the public entities. (TAC, ¶ 26.)
 
In
Ross v. Campbell Union School Dist. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 113, the County
superintendents of schools entered into written agreements with other
superintendents for the formation of a science and conservation education
program. The Court held that Defendants were jointly liable when a student was
injured because of the negligence of a supervising teacher in the program. Id.
The facts are similar in the instant action wherein Plaintiff has alleged that
MBUSD and HUSD participated in a program pursuant to a contractual agreement in
which students who resided in the MBUSD boundaries were placed at HUSD schools.
(TAC, ¶¶ 20-21.)  Defendant does not deny
the existence of a contractual agreement, but instead simply argues that any
liability and resulting damages pursuant to the agreement would be governed via
indemnification or contribution rather than directly to Plaintiff.
 
As
stated above, Defendant argues that there is no private right of action
belonging to the Plaintiff but that the relevant statute only provides a basis
for indemnification between the public entities. However, there is no authority
that definitively establishes this argument. Defendant argues that the
“liability imposed by any law other than this chapter” must be read to presume
that this other law must form a basis for liability against MBUSD rather than
HUSD. However, the statute states that this other law can be the basis for
liability against any one of the entities. The TAC is replete with statutory
bases for liability and the basis for duties to be imposed against HUSD. (TAC, ¶¶
5, 29, 39.)
 
Defendant
cites to Authority for Calif. Cities Excess Liab. v. Los Altos (2006)
136 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1212 for the proposition that no joint and several
liability is authorized pursuant to Gov. Code § 895.2. In Authority, the
Court of Appeal held that the city of Los Altos’ police chief's execution of a document
with other cities’ police chiefs to form special law enforcement teams did not
bind the city to pay a pro rata share of the other cities’ settlement with
heirs of a police officer killed during a joint training session. The holding
was specifically based on the finding that the relevant document was not, in
fact, an agreement between the public entities governed by Gov Code § 895.2
because the city council never considered or approved it.
 
Authority
is distinguishable. Authority’s holding was based on the lack of
an agreement and not upon a finding that the entities may only pursue
indemnification through Gov. Code § 895.2. The holding does not explicitly
state that there is no private right of action for the tort plaintiff as
Defendant attempts to argue.  Authority’s
reference to lack of “joint enterprise” liability is limited to that
context.  There was no “joint enterprise”
liability because of the lack of agreement under Section 895.2.  Any attempt to conflate this to state a
definitive statement regarding lack of joint and several liability is
misleading. 
 
Similarly,
another case cited by Defendant, Gonzales v. State of California (1972)
29 Cal.App.3d 585, is distinguishable. In Gonzales, a bus driver
employed by a local school district was not considered a state employee even
though the district's authority to employ drivers was derived from the state’s
duty to educate children. The Court disregarded the plaintiff’s attempt to
argue that Section 895.2 provided a statutory basis for liability. First, the
Court stated that no statutory basis for liability under Section 895.2 based on
an agreement was set forth in the pleadings. Second, the Court found that, even
if it had been pleaded, no specific agreement was in place, but instead merely
an implied agreement which is not within the governance of Section 895.2. Thus,
Gonzales is clearly distinguishable on the facts. 
 
In
addition, the Court refers the parties to Gov. Code § 895.4 as well as the law
revision comments to this section. “As part of any agreement, the public
entities may provide for contribution or indemnification by any or all of the
public entities that are parties to the agreement upon any liability arising
out of the performance of the agreement.” Gov. Code, § 895.4. “This section
permits public entities that are parties to an agreement to allocate the
ultimate financial responsibility among themselves in whatever manner seems
most desirable to them. The section does not affect the right of the injured
person to recover the full amount of his damages from any one of the public
entities under Section 895.2.” Gov. Code, § 895.4 (Law Revision Comments)(emphasis
added).  Thus, while Section 895.2
provides that the agreement may provide a ground for contribution or
indemnification between the public entities, the law revision comments make
clear that this section allows the injured party to recover from any of the
public entities.
 
In
sum, Defendant fails to establish that Gov. Code § 895.2 does not provide a
private right of action in favor of Plaintiff, but, instead, is merely a basis
for indemnification between the public entities. Thus, Defendant does not meet
its burden to show that no duty of care exists on the part of Defendant in
favor of Plaintiff.
 
As
to issue 2, which again as noted above, is not really a proper issue, but
simply grounds for summary judgment based on a failure to meet the element of
causation, the Court notes that in the memorandum of points and authorities
Defendant argues that no protective measures could have prevented Plaintiff’s
harm. The Court notes, however, that none of the separate statement of facts
directly address this argument. Facts 1 to 10 specifically address the duty
argument ruled upon above.  Facts 11 and
12 generally claim “no negligence” without specifying the causation element.  Fact 12 is not supported with any supporting
evidence and can be quickly disregarded by the Court.  In any event, as to the causation element,
Plaintiff has set forth facts to show the existence of a triable issue of
material fact as to Defendant’s Facts 11 and 12.  (Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement of Facts 11 and 12 and Supporting Evidence.)  In addition, the Court notes that adjudication
of issue 2, under the arguments made by Defendant, appears to also be premised
upon the Court determining that no liability exists under the agreement between
the parties.  As the Court has ruled that
Defendant did not meet its burden of persuasion as to the element of duty,
Plaintiff can still pursue a basis for liability based on joint and several
liability between the two school districts. Defendant has not established that
there is no triable issue of material fact that the employee or agent of the
contracting school district, HUSD, did not cause or contribute to Plaintiff’s
injuries.
 
Therefore,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, and
alternative, motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 