  Case Number:  23VECV01883    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
THERESA VALENCIA,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
DEVONSHIRE
  ENTERPRISES, INC., et al.
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV01883            107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
Motion
  to Compel
  Deposition Questions  
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
This is a premises
liability action. On or about May 8, 2021, Plaintiff Theresa Valencia
(“Plaintiff”) was visiting a restaurant, House of Galbi (the “Subject
Premises”). (Complaint ¶
7.) Plaintiff sustained injuries after she tripped and fell in the Subject Premises’
parking lot. (Complaint ¶¶ 7-8.) On May 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants Devonshire Enterprises, Inc. dba House of Galbi, G.F.C.
Encino Associates II, LLC, and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action
for premises liability and general negligence. (Complaint p. 1.)
 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a motion to compel percipient witness Yun Hwan Kim to answer deposition
questions (the “Motion”). On October 24, 2024, Defendants Devonshire
Enterprises, Inc. dba House of Galbi & G.F.C. Encino Associates, II, LLC
(“Defendants”) filed an opposition. Plaintiff filed a reply on October 29,
2024.
 
II.            
PROCEDURE
 
a.    
Timeliness

“If a deponent fails to answer any question .
. . that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the
party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer
or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(a).) The “motion shall be made no
later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition[.]”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(b).)
 
Plaintiff deposed Percipient Witness Yun Hwan
Kim on September 9, 2024. (Eli Declaration ¶ 16.) Plaintiff filed the Motion on September 24,
2024. September 24, 2024, is within sixty days of September 9, 2024.
Accordingly, Plaintiff timely filed the Motion.
b.    
Meet
and Confer
A motion to compel answers “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(b).) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a
motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel submits a declaration
stating counsel met and conferred with Defendants’ counsel on September 9,
2024. (Eli Declaration ¶
18.) Plaintiff’s counsel states “defense counsel remained firm on refusing to
permit her client to
answer the relevant deposition questions and acknowledged on the record during
Witness Kim’s deposition that I will be filing a Motion to Compel the
depositions questions at issue.” (Eli Declaration ¶ 19.) 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff did not
adequately meet and confer before filing the Motion. (Opposition p. 4.)
Defendants state “Plaintiff’s purported meet and confer on the record lasted
less than one minute and consisted of nothing more than asking why defense
counsel believed the attorney client privilege was implicated and indicating
she disagreed. Plaintiff did not explain why she disagreed”, “[s]he did not
provide any authority in support of her positions” and “[s]he did not make any
effort to negotiate an informal resolution.” (Opposition p. 5.) Defendants’
counsel submits a declaration stating Defendants’ counsel “reached out to
Plaintiff via email asking her to meet and confer over the phone to attempt to
resolve the issues informally” but “Plaintiff’s counsel declined, and instead
replied that she only wanted to know if we would produce Mr. Kim for deposition
once again.” (Guzman Declaration ¶ 14. Ex. D.) 
 
There is no “absolute rule
requiring that informal resolution must always await the conclusion of a
deposition” and the court “leave[s] it to the parties to determine the proper
time, manner, and place for such discussion.” (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1438.)  However,
“the statute requires that there be a serious effort at negotiation and
informal resolution.” (Id.) “Argument is not the same as informal
negotiation” and “debate over the appropriateness of an objection, interspersed
between rounds of further interrogation, does not . . . constitute an earnest
attempt to resolve impasses in discovery.” (Id. at pp. 1437-1438.) “A
reasonable and good-faith attempt at informal resolution entails something more
than bickering with deponent’s counsel at a deposition. Rather, the law
requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views,
consult, and deliberate.”  (Id. at
p. 1439.) 
 
Plaintiff’s only purported meet and
confer efforts occurred during the deposition. (Ex. D; Eli Declaration ¶ 19.) At the deposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel asked Defendants’ counsel about the grounds for Defendants’
counsel’s objection to Plaintiff’s questions. (Ex. D p. 10:14-21.) Later,
Plaintiff’s counsel asked Defendants’ counsel if they were “still maintaining
[the] objection based off of attorney-client privilege.” (Ex. D p. 76:21-23.)
Plaintiff’s counsel then stated, as the deposition, “I met and conferred with
[Defendants’ counsel] to say that I do not believe that that is attorney-client
communications as to when he was retained. You feel differently. So that’s my
meet and confer. I do intend to file a motion to compel this deposition question.
So pending the Court’s ruling on our motion to compel, I do reserve the right
to bring you back to ask that question if the Court approves that.” (Ex. D p.
77:5-13.) Plaintiff’s counsel also stated they intended to file a motion to compel
the question relating to when the witness called the attorneys. (Ex. D pp.
77:20-79:2.)
 
This court finds that Plaintiff’s
counsel’s inquiry at the deposition as to the basis for Defendants’ counsel’s
objection did not constitute a “serious effort at negotiation [or]
informal resolution.” (Townsend v. Superior Court, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1438.) “[T]he law requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over,
compare their views, consult, and deliberate.” 
(Id. at p. 1439.) That did not occur here.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s counsel
did not satisfy section 2025.480’s meet
and confer requirement. The Motion is denied. 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:             November
6, 2024                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court