 Case Number:  23STCV27674    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  73 10/15/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
PUIG v. GOODPEOPLE ROASTING LLC, et
al. (23STCV27674)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party:  Scott Ernest Wheeler (Law Office
of Scott Ernest Wheeler)
Counsel for
Defendants/ opposing party: N/A
 
REQUEST FOR
ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT AGAINST DEFENDANTS (filed 9/30/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s request for entry of
default judgment against Defendants Goodpeople Roasting LLC, GP Group LLC and
Carlos Herrera is DENIED without prejudice.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff Eric Puig brought this action
individually and on behalf of all other aggrieved employees against Defendants Goodpeople
Roasting LLC and GP Group LLC.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants own and operate
one or more coffee bars, that also operate as restaurants, bars, and Marijuana
dispensaries, in Southern California. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff, along with
other non-exempt employees of Defendants, worked and performed duties and tasks
at these coffee bars and additionally, received wages from Defendants. (Ibid.)
Defendants implemented common policies and practices within their coffee bars
that have resulted in systematic violations of California’s wage and hour laws.
(Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff brings this representative action to recover civil
penalties relating to systematic violations of California wage and hour laws by
Defendants. 
 
On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant request for
entry of default judgment against Defendants Goodpeople Roasting LLC, GP Group LLC and Carlos
Herrera
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
 CCP § 585 permits entry of a judgment after a Defendant has
failed to timely answer after being properly served.  A party seeking
judgment on the default by the Court must file a Request for Court Judgment,
and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible
evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as
necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of
judgment; (6) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought;
(7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an
application for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of
grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for
attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties. 
(CRC Rule 3.1800.) 
 
B.     
Application
 
SUBMITTED: CRC 3.1800 
 
1.      Use of JC Form CIV-100                                                                          No
2.      Dismissal or judgment of non-parties
to the judgment                  Yes 
3.      Declaration of non-military status for each defendant                          No 
4.      Summary of the case                                                                              Yes 
5.      585(d) declarations/admissible evidence in support                                Yes 
6.      Exhibits (as
necessary)                                                                           Yes 
7.      Interest
computation (as necessary)                                                 Yes 
8.      Cost
memorandum                                                                                 Yes
 
 
JC Form CIV-100 must be used to request court judgment. Here,
Plaintiff has not submitted JC Form CIV-100 in support of his request.
Plaintiff submitted declarations
by Plaintiff and his counsel, Justin Wheeler, and a summary of the case.
However, since Plaintiff has not submitted JC Form CIV-100, Plaintiff has not
complied with all the requirements for default judgment.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
request for entry of default judgment is DENIED without prejudice.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Plaintiff’s request for
entry of default judgment against Defendants Goodpeople Roasting LLC, GP Group
LLC and Carlos Herrera is DENIED without prejudice.