 Case Number:  22AHCV00822    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOHN LE NGUYEN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MINH LE
   NGUYEN,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00822
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES; MOTION TO APPOINT PARTITION
   REFEREE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 12,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On January 26, 2024, the Court issued a
statement of decision ruling that plaintiff John Le Nguyen (“Plaintiff”) and
defendant Minh Le Nguyen (“Defendant”) are co-owners of the real property
located at 2070 Meridian Avenue, South Pasadena, California 91030 (the “South
Pasadena Property”). The Court concluded that Plaintiff is entitled to
partition the South Pasadena Property by sale and that the net proceeds from
the sale will be shared equally between the parties, except that the cost of
the title report ($450) and sanctions ($1,800) are to be deducted from
Defendant’s portion of the proceeds and paid to Plaintiff. 
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for attorney fees. The same day, Plaintiff also filed a motion to
appoint a partition referee.
The motions are unopposed. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
A.  
Attorney
Fees
Attorney fees are considered costs of a
partition action which shall be apportioned “among the parties in proportion to
their interests” or in other equitable manner. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 874.010,
874.040.) Calculating an attorney fee award requires the Court first determine
the “lodestar”, which is the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by
the reasonable hourly rate. (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.)
The submitted evidence should allow the court to consider whether the case was
overstaffed, how much time the attorneys spent on particular claims, and
whether the hours were reasonably expended. (City of Colton v. Singletary
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 751.) The burden is on the party seeking attorney fees
to prove that the fees it seeks are reasonable. (Gorman v. Tassajara
Development Corp. (2009) 178 Cal. App. 4th 44, 98.)
Here, Plaintiff is currently
self-represented, but was previously represented by Kathy T. Luong (“Luong”).
Plaintiff states that Luong devoted a total of 42.1 hours to this action. (Motion,
p. 5.) Plaintiff also submits a declaration from Luong in which Luong states that
she has practiced law for 16 years and her hourly rate for this case is $400.
(Luong Decl., ¶ 2.) Luong states that Plaintiff has incurred $16,840 in
attorney fees and $3,181.12 in costs, totaling $20,021.12. (Id., ¶ 3.)
Luong also attaches around 50 pages of billing statements and invoices
documenting the services performed by her office. 
The hourly billing rate and the amount
of time billed appears to be reasonable from Luong’s declaration and these
billing statements. However, it would be inequitable to award Plaintiff 100% of
his fees and costs when he only has a 50% interest in the South Pasadena
Property. (Finney v. Gomez (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 527, 545-46.) In Finney,
which involved a partition action with only two parties who both held equal ownership
interests, the Second Appellate District held that the trial court erred by deviating
from an equal apportionment of costs to the co-owners and awarding 100% of the
party’s costs when there was no evidence that an award based on their equal
ownership interests would not be equitable. 
Here, Plaintiff argues that all of his
costs were incurred for the common benefit, i.e., for both him and Defendant.
He presents no evidence why it would be equitable for Defendant to be solely
responsible for costs from which he benefitted. Therefore, even assuming that
those costs were all for the common benefit, the Court limits Plaintiff to
recovering 50% of them. 
In addition, the Court notes that
Plaintiff actually requests costs for services which were not incurred “for the
common benefit”, such as $49.05 for filing fees related to a substitution of
attorney in February 2024. Plaintiff also includes $450 in his calculation in
costs for the title report, even though this expense was already accounted for
in the Court’s statement of decision. Therefore, the Court subtracts these
amounts from Plaintiff’s claimed costs and divides the difference by two,
awarding Plaintiff $9,761.036 in costs incurred in this partition action for
the common benefit. 
B.  
Appointing
a Partition Referee
Plaintiff requests the Court appoint a
referee to carry out the sale of the South Pasadena Property and order that the
costs of the sale and fees of the referee be paid from the sale proceeds. A
referee appointed by the court to carry out a partition by sale shall sell the
property in the manner and following the procedures provided by Chapter 6,
Title 10.5, Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure. (Code Civ. Proc., §
873.510.) The property shall be sold at public auction or private sale,
depending on which is determined by the court to be more beneficial to the
parties. (Id., § 873.520.) The court may refer the matter to a referee and
take into account the referee’s report. Similarly, the court may “prescribe
such manner, terms, and conditions of sale . . . as it deems proper” but may
also refer the manners, terms, and conditions of sale to a referee for
recommendation. (Id., § 873.610.) The court “shall not approve the
referee’s report except following a hearing upon noticed motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 873.610, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff provides the names of two
individuals with reference experience, Matthew L. Taylor and Stephen J. Donnell,
and attaches their curricula vitae to the motion. The motion is unopposed and Defendant
does not object to either proposed referee. However, Plaintiff does not actually
nominate either individual, nor does he state that either of them are available
and consent to any appointment. Plaintiff also does not submit either
individual’s fee schedules for the Court’s review. Instead, Plaintiff only
states that he is “aware” of Messrs. Taylor and Donnell. Furthermore, there is
no evidence, such as a sworn declaration, that the parties have met and
conferred and been unable to reach an agreement about the identity of any
potential referee. Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant is not cooperating is unsupported
by any evidence. In light of these circumstances, the Court is not inclined to grant
Plaintiff’s motion at this time. 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion for costs in the amount of $9,761.036.
          The hearing
on the motion to appoint a referee is CONTINUED to ______. The parties are
ordered to meet and confer on selecting a referee. No later than 5 days before
the hearing date, the parties are to submit a joint statement. In this
statement, each party shall nominate up to 3 individuals who are willing to potentially
serve as a referee in this matter. The parties must include these individuals’
curricula vitae, fee schedules, and any other information the parties think
would assist the Court in the selection process. The statement shall also
include a description of efforts made by both parties to reach an agreement on who
the referee should be. If the parties do not reach an agreement before the
hearing date, the Court will choose one of the nominees identified in the
report to appoint as a referee for the sale of the South Pasadena Property. 
Dated
this 12th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 