  Case Number:  21STCV09956    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RICARDO CALVARIO,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MICHAEL
   HOMAYUN, D.D.S., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV09956
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 12,
  2024




 


 


 



 
Christopher
 W. Rowlett and Todd R. Kinnear of Perez, Vaughn & Feasby, Inc. seek
to be relieved as counsel of record for defendant
 Oral Aesthetics Advocacy Group, LLC (“Defendant”) on grounds that there has
 been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. Absent a showing
of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted.
(People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
The Court notes that trial in this
matter is set for March 3, 2025, and no prejudice will result from granting
this motion. However, the proposed order currently on file with the Court does
not reflect the recently continued trial date or the hearing dates for various
motions which were filed by other parties after this motion to be relieved was
filed. Accordingly, the hearing is continued to _______________ so that defense
counsel may submit a revised proposed order. The revised proposed order must be
filed no later than 5 court days before the date of the hearing. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 12th
day of July 2024  
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.