 Case Number:  23STCV25127    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DARYOUSH CHAHARBAKSHIELIEH,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
JOHN
  JACK TANNOUS, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV25127
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM COMPLAINT


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February 21, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This is an auto accident case arising
from an incident on November 9, 2022.  On
October 13, 2023, Plaintiff Daryoush Bhaharbakshielieh (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendant John Jack Tannous (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 20,
alleging one cause of action for negligence.
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to strike punitive damages from the complaint.  The motion is unopposed.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or
irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim
or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient
claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd.
(b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“Before filing a motion to strike . . . the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be
raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a).)  If no agreement is reached, the moving party shall file and serve
with the motion to strike a declaration stating either: (1) the means by which
the parties met and conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement,
or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and
confer request or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
The declaration Defendant submitted in
support of this motion to strike contains no evidence indicating the parties
having met and conferred by telephone or in person, as is required under Code
of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a).  (See Araujo Decl., ¶3; Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5, subd. (a).)  Nevertheless, the
Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and
confer.  (Id., § 435.5, subd.
(a)(4).)  The Court will still consider
the motion to strike, but admonishes Defendant to comply with the requirements
of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.
Analysis
Defendant seeks to strike certain
allegations from the complaint regarding driving while intoxicated vis-à-vis
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. 
Defendant contends the complaint contains only conclusory allegations of
intoxication and no facts to support those allegations.  Defendant contends there is no traffic
collision report regarding the underlying accident and no allegation that
Defendant was intoxicated or under the influence at the time of the
accident.  The Court agrees the complaint
fails to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages based
on driving while intoxicated.
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. [Citation.]  These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.”  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)  Driving while intoxicated may justify an
award of punitive damages.  (Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 899-900.)
The Court finds the complaint’s
allegations of Defendant driving while intoxicated to be conclusory and
unsupported by any other factual allegations. 
(Compl., ¶¶10-11; see Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6 [conclusions of law subject to a motion to strike if not
supported by facts alleged elsewhere in the pleading].)  It is also not enough to simply allege that
Defendant was intoxicated while driving. 
(Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.)
Moreover, Plaintiff did not oppose this
motion, which the Court construes as a tacit admission that Defendant’s motion
is meritorious.  (Holden
v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing
the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before
Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)
The
Court declines to consider Defendant’s contentions regarding the traffic
collision report, as that is outside the four corners of the complaint.  The Court may not consider such things on a
motion to strike unless they are subject to judicial notice.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS
the motion to strike.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS the motion to strike
with leave to amend.  Plaintiff must file
and serve an amended complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order.  If Plaintiff declines to amend the complaint,
Defendant must file and serve an answer to the complaint within 30 days of the
Court’s order.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 21st day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 