

TENTATIVE
            The Court grants the Motion but
continues trial only until July 29, 2024.
 
 

Background
            This case stems from injuries sustained by Kevin McElrath
(Plaintiff) after stepping off a bus and being hit by a motor vehicle. On
August 9, 2020, Plaintiff was a passenger on a public bus operated by the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority (LACMA) when the bus, after
allegedly skipping Plaintiff’s bus stop, stopped in the middle of the street
and opened its door to allow Plaintiff to exit the bus. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) As
Plaintiff exited, he was hit by an oncoming vehicle and suffered injuries. (Id.)
Plaintiff filed suit on September 10, 2021, with a Complaint containing three
causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) negligent entrustment, and (3) negligence
per se.
 
            The motion before the Court is a jointly filed Motion to
Continue Trial and All Other Dates (Motion). As the Motion is filed by all
parties, there is no opposition. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored,
the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without
limitation): 
 
(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;
(5) The addition of a new party if:
            (A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or
            (B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
            The court
may also consider the following factors: “(1) The proximity of the trial date;
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of Court
3.1332(d).)¿¿ ¿ 
 
Analysis
            All
parties have stipulated to a continuance. The parties have noted that although
they have diligently engaged in good faith and cooperative discussions
regarding discovery, there is essential discovery that is still outstanding
including depositions, a vehicle inspection, and medical records. Moreover, they
have indicated that mediation is scheduled for May 14, 2024. 
 
            While
the Court finds a basis to continue the May 7 trial, namely, the May 14
mediation, the Court does not find that the Motion sets forth good cause for
the requested continuance to October 2024. Significantly, the parties have not
indicated why in the 2.5 years since filing they have been unable to complete
discovery and why they cannot do so in the next 60 to 90 days. Given the May 14
mediation, the Court sets trial for July 29, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. and the Final
Status Conference for July
XX, 2024, at 10:00 a.m.  
 
 
 