 Case Number:  21STCV10298    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  29  
Motion to File Under Seal filed by Defendants Brian
Williams, Ronald Williams, and Cash Money Records, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
This matter arises out of an alleged altercation on
December 29, 2019, between Plaintiffs Kenneth Lawson and Monique Jourdain-Lawson
(“Plaintiffs”) and Defendant Cash McElroy Jones (“Jones”).  Plaintiffs filed their complaint in this
action on March 16, 2021, and their First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) on
September 1, 2021.  In the FAC,
Plaintiffs assert a variety of causes of action against Jones and numerous
other defendants.
On November 23, 2023, three of the Defendants – Brian
Williams, Ronald Williams, and Cash Money Records, Inc. (the “Settling
Defendants”) – reached a settlement agreement. 
On January 10, 2024, the Settling Defendants filed a motion for a
determination of good faith settlement. 
That motion is set for hearing on March 12, 2024.
In this motion, also filed on January 10, the Settling
Defendants seek an order sealing the “the terms of the Settlement Agreement.”  (Motion, at 2:6.)
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“[T]he First Amendment provides a right
of [public] access to ordinary civil trials and proceedings.”  (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Super.
Ct. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1212.) “[C]onstitutional standards governing
closure of trial proceedings apply in the civil setting.”  (Ibid.)  Those standards are embodied in California Rules
of Court, rules 2.550 and 2.551.
“Unless confidentiality is required by
law, court records are presumed to be open.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c). 
“A record must not be filed under seal without a court order.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(a).)  “The court must not permit a record to be
filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.”  (Ibid.)
California Rules of Court, rule
2.550(d) sets forth the basic standard for an order permitting the filing of
documents under seal:
“The court may order that a record be
filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:  
(1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record;  
(2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record;  
(3) A substantial probability exists
that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed;  
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and  
(5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.”   
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
“An order sealing the record must: (A)
Specifically state the facts that support the findings; and (B) Direct the
sealing of only those documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable,
portions of those documents and pages, that contain the material that needs to
be placed under seal.  All other portions
of each document or page must be included in the public file.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(e)(1).
A motion or application to file under
seal must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts
sufficient to justify the sealing. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.551(b)(1).)  “A request to seal a document must be filed publicly and
separately from the object of the request.  It must be supported by a
factual declaration or affidavit explaining the particular needs of the case.”
(In re Marriage of Lechowick (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1416.) “[A]t a
minimum that the party seeking to seal documents, or maintain them under seal,
must come forward with a specific enumeration of the facts sought to be
withheld and specific reasons for withholding them.”  (H.B. Fuller Co.
v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 894.) 
Discussion
As a threshold matter, it is unclear to the
Court precisely what materials the Settling Defendants seek to seal.  In the public file, the memorandum supporting
Settling Defendants’ motion for a determination of good faith settlement has
one redaction, on page  4, line 20, of
the amount of the settlement.  In the motion
to seal, Settling Defendants state that they seek to seal “the terms of the
Settlement Agreement,” and it is unclear whether that refers to the one
redaction in the good faith motion or something more.  Moreover, the motion to seal also refers to “lodged
records,” in the plural.  And the
declaration of counsel in support of the motion to seal refers to sealing “both
the Application and attached Settlement Agreement.”  (Nizam Decl., ¶ 3.)
For this reason alone, the Court must deny
the motion to seal.  The Court cannot
grant a motion to seal, and make the specific and detailed orders required by
the Rules of Court, when it is unclear to the Court what record or records, or
what portions of a record or records, the Settling Defendants seek to seal.
Turning to the merits, a motion to seal must
be supported by (among other things) “an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d)(1).) 
Here, counsel’s declaration (the only supporting declaration submitted
in support of the motion to seal) does not set forth any evidence that would
allow the Court to make a finding of such an overriding interest.  At most, it states that the good faith
settlement motion (described as an application) “contains a confidentiality provision.”  (Nizam Decl., ¶ 2.)  It appears that counsel is stating that the settlement
agreement entered into by the Plaintiffs and the Settling Defendants itself contains
a confidentiality provision of some sort.  (Memo. at 4:17-20, 5:18-20.)  But it remains unclear what it is that the
Settling Defendants contend is confidential (for example, the entire settlement
agreement, only the amount to be paid, or other portions of the agreement).
Even assuming the most narrow request to seal
only the amount to be paid as a part of the settlement, the Court finds on this
record that the Settling Defendants have not made the required showing.  It appears that Settling Defendants are
contending that the parties to civil litigation may agree to a confidential settlement
and then, in a good faith motion regarding that settlement, seek an order
sealing the financial terms of the agreement. 
If that is what the Settling Defendants are arguing, it is in tension (to
say the least) with California Rules of Court, rule
2.551(a), which as noted above, states expressly, “The court must not permit a
record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of
the parties.”  
The Court is not aware of any precedent that would allow
sealing under these circumstances.  The
cases cited by Settling Defendants, and at least one additional case that the
Court has considered, do recognize (in dicta) that in some circumstances protecting
a contractual confidentiality provision might constitute an “overriding
interest” under Rule 2.550(d)(1).  (E.g.,
NBC Subsidiary, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p.1222, fn. 46; Huffy Corp. v.
Super. Ct. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 97, 106; Universal City Studios v.
Super. Ct. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1281-1283.)  But in each of those cases, the courts were
referring to a pre-existing contract to keep something, such as a trade secret,
confidential.  None involves a contract entered
into during litigation to settle the very case that is the subject of this
public proceeding.  Permitting a sealing
order in this context gives rise to a risk of “boot strapping” that is not
supported by any case law and would seem to run contrary to the command of Rule
2.551(a).
The other arguments of the Settling
Defendants also fail to establish an overriding interest sufficient to support
a sealing order.  In the declaration, counsel
refers to the “potential” that “the publicly available information” could “be
misused against the Settling Defendants.”  (Nizam Decl., ¶ 3; see also Mem. at 4:22-24).  That statement is far too vague and speculative
to support the findings required by Rule 2.550(d).  The memorandum invokes the constitutional
right of the Settling Defendants to financial privacy, which of course is substantial
and can support a sealing order, but it is unclear why the terms of a settlement
of one civil matter (as opposed to, for example, financial statements or documents
reflecting income or assets or expenses) would substantially prejudice the
Settling Defendants’ right to financial privacy.  (See Mem. at 5:4-17.)  Similarly, the Settling Defendants’ “public
and celebrity persona” and the possibility that unnamed “others” could “bring
claims against them in the hopes of obtaining any kind of settlement” is
unsupported and too amorphous to support the requested sealing order.  (See Mem. at 4:20-22, 5:19-21.)
Accordingly, on this record, the motion to
file under seal is DENIED.  
Conclusion
The Court denies Settling Defendants’ motion to file
under seal.
This denial does
not preclude Settling Defendants from filing a subsequent motion to seal, with additional
clarity regarding what they seek to file under seal and evidence to support each
of the required findings.  In that respect,
the motion is denied without prejudice.
The Judicial
Assistant is directed to return the lodged records to the moving parties,
unless moving parties notify the Court within 10 days that the lodged record is
to be filed unsealed.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(b)(6).)
Moving parties are ordered to give notice.