 Case Number:  23VECV05528    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  T MCCALL V GENERAL MOTORS 23VECV05528
Tentative ruling:  Demurrer and Motion to Strike by defendant
Keyes
As to Song-Beverly Claims, plaintiff
cannot pursue a Song-Beverly claim or remedies as to Keyes. Keyes was not the
seller of the vehicle to Plaintiff and there are no facts to establish it
issued any express warranty. Also, the California Supreme Court’s decision in
Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 17 Cal. 5th 189; 557 P. d 735, 3236 Cal. Rptr.
440, clearly holds Plaintiff cannot assert a Song-Beverly claim in regard to a
used vehicle, even if it has an unexpired new car warranty. Rodriguez also
involved a used vehicle with an unexpired manufacturer’s new car warranty. The
Supreme Court, after thoroughly analyzing the facts, the appellate opinion, the
statutory language and the legislative history, stated: "We conclude that
a motor vehicle purchased with an unexpired manufacturer’s new car warranty
does not qualify as a “motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty” under section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2)’s definition of “new motor vehicle”
unless the new car warranty was issued with the sale. We affirm the judgment of
the Court of Appeal." (Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC, 326 Cal. Rptr. at 443.)
The Supreme Court further stated: "For new products, liability extends to
the manufacturer; for used products, liability extends to the distributor or
retail seller and not to the manufacturer, at least where the manufacturer has
not issued a new warranty or played a substantial role in the sale of a used
good." (Id. at 447.)
Accordingly, the court sustains
Keyes' demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, without leave to amend, as to the
1st cause of action for breach of express warranty, 2nd
cause of action for breach of implied warranty, 3rd cause of action for
manufacturing defect, 4th cause of action for strict liability, 6th
cause of action for negligent retrofit, and the 7th cause of action for breach
of warranty/fitness for purpose.
On the remaining causes of
action, unrelated to a Song-Beverly Act claims, the court finds that there are
facts which could allege causes of action against Keyes, but are vague and
unclear because they are intertwined with Song-Beverly Act allegations
involving General Motors. The claims against Keyes relate to its repair of plaintiff's
vehicle. 
The court finds that the 1st
Amended Complaint  alleges a breach of
contract against defendant Keyes as an auto repair shop.  Under the California Automotive Repair Act,
repair shops are required to:
•            Repair shops are required to keep
their customers informed during the vehicle repair process.
•            Repair shops are required to only
perform the repairs that customers have authorized them to perform.
•            Repair
shops are required to make a written record of all work they perform and parts
t          hey use.
•            Repair
shops are required to provide customers with copies of both the estimates and            final invoices, as well as copies of
anything else customers sign.
"Automotive repair dealers
perform repairs and services essential to helping consumers maintain and repair
their vehicles. In all transactions, automotive repair dealers must comply with
the Automotive Repair Act (Act) and related laws and regulations. At its core,
the Act establishes requirements for automotive repair transactions between
auto shops and consumers. It also establishes requirements and standards for
certain repairs and services to help automotive repair dealers ensure the
quality and safety of their work.
Automotive repair dealers must
provide an estimate and obtain authorization from the consumer before beginning
any repairs, obtain additional authorization if additional repairs are needed,
and provide a final invoice describing all repairs performed and parts provided
in terms the consumer can understand." 
Source: https://www.bar.ca.gov/repairs.
However, delineated causes of
action do not specify a simple breach of contract action against Keyes, not
tied to the Song-Beverly Act,  which
makes the amended complaint confusing.  
The court sustains Keyes'
demurrer and grants leave to amend as to these causes of action: breach of
contract (as it relates to repairs by Keyes), 5th cause of action
for negligent repairs by Keyes, 8th cause of action for breach of
implied covenant (which is vague and non-specific), and the 9th
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation (as it applies to repairs by
Keyes which is also vague and non-specific).
Because the court is granting
leave to amend, the motion to strike is moot.
Tentative ruling:  Demurrer and Motion to Strike by defendant General
Motors
For the same reasons as set forth
in the discussion of the demurrer on the Song-Beverly Act claims, the court
sustains General Motor's demurrer to the First Amended Complaint as to without
leave to amend, as to the 1st cause of action for breach of express
warranty, 2nd cause of action for breach of implied warranty, 3rd
cause of action for manufacturing defect, 4th cause of action for strict liability,
6th cause of action for negligent retrofit, and the 7th cause of
action for breach of warranty/fitness for purpose.
As to the remaining causes of
action General Motors, as plaintiff had no contractual or direct business dealings
with General Motors, the court also sustains the demurrer to the  5th cause of action for negligence,
8th cause of action for breach of implied covenant, and the 9th
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
The court will enter a Judgment
of Dismissal in favor of defendant General Motors, LLC.  Costs per Memorandum of Costs.
The motion to strike is moot.