 Case Number:  23VECV05148    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  T HO V AMERICAN HONDA 23VECV05148 Plaintiff's Motion to  Compel Deposition and for Production of Documents:  Grant.   Defendant is ordered to produce those of its employees, agents who are  MOST QUALIFIED by Zoom on 2/3/2025 at 9:00 a.m. OR ON ANY OTHER DATE AND TIME  TO WHICH THE PARTIES STIPULATE IN WRITING, to testify about the following topics: MATTERS FOR EXAMINATION 1. Plaintiff, TIEN T. HO’s  (“Plaintiff”) requests for repurchase of the 2021 Honda Civic bearing VIN:  SHHFK7H40MU414034, (“Subject Vehicle”). 2. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO.,  INC.’s (“Defendant”) policies, procedures, or other guidelines regarding  responding to consumer complaints in which the consumer alleges that TIEN T.  HO’s vehicle is defective from 2016 to present. 3. All COMMUNICATIONS with  Plaintiff. 4. Defendant’s response to  Plaintiff’s request for vehicle repurchase. 5. Defendant’s research and  investigation, if any, regarding Plaintiff’s request for a vehicle repurchase. 6. All COMMUNICATIONS between  Defendant and its agents or authorized repair facilities regarding the Subject  Vehicle. 7. All COMMUNICATIONS between  Defendant and any third parties regarding the Subject Vehicle. 8. All warranty claims made to  Defendant with regard to the Subject Vehicle. 9. All repairs and services  performed on the Subject Vehicle. 10. All documents that Defendant  reviewed, if any, in determining Defendant’s response to any of Plaintiff’s  buyback requests. This topic includes, but is not limited to: i. which DOCUMENTS were reviewed; ii. when they were reviewed; iii. by whom they were reviewed; iv. any written reports or other  DOCUMENTS that were created summarizing or otherwise reporting the  results of such investigations; v. any oral reports that were  made summarizing or otherwise reporting the results of such investigation;  and vi. any memorandum or emails  drafted regarding Plaintiffs’ request and/or Defendant’s investigation and  response. 11. All documents that Defendant  reviewed, if any, in investigating the cause of the complaints alleged  regarding the Subject Vehicle. 12. All persons that Defendant  talked to, interviewed, or made any other type of inquiries from in determining  Defendant’s response to any of Plaintiff’s buyback requests. 13. Any other investigation that  Defendant conducted in determining Defendant’s response to any of Plaintiff’s  buyback requests. 14. All investigations or other  analysis that Defendant performed to determine the cause of the problems  complained of by Plaintiff regarding the Subject Vehicle. This topic includes,  but is not limited to: vii. which DOCUMENTS were  reviewed; viii. when they were reviewed; ix. by whom they were reviewed; x. any written reports or other  DOCUMENTS that were created summarizing or otherwise reporting the  results of such investigations; xi. any oral reports that were  made summarizing or otherwise reporting the results of such investigation;  and xii. any memorandum or emails  drafted regarding Plaintiffs’ request and/or Defendant’s investigation and  response. 15. All telephone calls made by  anyone, including Plaintiff, to Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance number  regarding the Subject Vehicle. 16. All policies, procedures, or  other guidelines regarding recording calls made to Defendant's 1-800 customer  assistance number. 17. Defendant’s policies,  procedures or other guidelines for repurchasing or replacing vehicles under the  Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act in effect during the time plaintiff was  seeking repairs for the Subject Vehicle. 19. The nature of Defendant’s  relationship with the company(s) that handles calls from consumers to  Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance number. 20. The policies and procedures  to be followed by the customer service company(s) that handles calls to  Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance number when receiving a call from a consumer regarding a Defendant’s  vehicle in effect during the time that Plaintiff was seeking repairs for the  Subject Vehicle. 21. Defendant’s oversight of the  customer service company(s) that handles calls to Defendant’s 1-800 customer  assistance number. 22. Defendant’s policies and  procedures for honoring California Lemon Law buyback and replacement requests  from in effect in Los Angeles during the time that plaintiff was seeking  repairs to the Subject Vehicle. 25. Defendant’s ownership  interest, including but not limited to, its percentage of ownership in the  company(s) authorized to handle its 1-800 customer assistance number call line. 27. Any guidance provided by  Defendant to the company(s) that handle Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance  number as to what constitutes a “non-conformity” under the Song-Beverly Act. 28. Any guidance provided by  Defendant to the company(s) that handle Defendant’s 1- 800 customer assistance  number as to what constitutes a “reasonable number of repair attempts” under  the Song-Beverly Act. 31. Any and all facts relating to  Defendant’s decisions with respect to Plaintiff’s buyback requests having to do  with the Subject Vehicle at any time. No later than January 27,  defendant is to produce the following documents to plaintiff's counsel: REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: Produce YOUR entire original file  regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 2: All DOCUMENTS that set forth  Defendant’s policies, procedures, or other guidelines (if any) regarding what  Defendant’s authorized repair facilities should do when a consumer complains that  a Defendant’s vehicle is defective. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 3: Produce all COMMUNICATIONS  between YOU and NORM REEVES HONDA SUPERSTORE, located at 19131 Beach Blvd.,  Huntington Beach, CA 92648, regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 4: Produce all COMMUNICATIONS  between YOU and KEYES HONDA, located at 5905 Sepulveda Blvd., Van Nuys, CA  91411, regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 5: Produce all COMMUNICATIONS  between YOU and CAPITOL HONDA, located at 745 West Capitol Expressway, San  Jose, CA 95136, regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 6: All DOCUMENTS or files maintained  by YOU regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 7: All handwritten notes regarding  Plaintiff’s requests that Defendant repurchase the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 8: All handwritten notes regarding  the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 9: All call logs regarding Plaintiff  or the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 10: All DOCUMENTS setting forth the  deponent’s job description. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 11: All DOCUMENTS that Defendant  reviewed in determining Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s buyback requests. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 12: All DOCUMENTS consulted or relied  upon in preparing for this deposition. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 14: All training materials provided  to Defendant’s employees regarding the handling of consumer requests for a  vehicle repurchase in effect during the time that plaintiff was seeking repairs  for the Subject Vehicle in Los Angeles. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 16: All DOCUMENTS related to  Defendant’s policies and procedures for determining what constitutes a  reasonable number of opportunities to repair a defect. _________________________________________________________________________  TENTATIVE RULING: PLAINTIFF'S  MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET 2: GRANT.  Within 20 days of this order  defendant shall provide copies of the following documents, which are in its possession,  custody and/or control, to plaintiff: Purchase or lease contracts  concerning the subject vehicle, including any associated documents reflecting  OEM or aftermarket equipment installed at the dealership, ELWs or service  contracts, and any other writings signed by the plaintiff at the point of sale. Work orders, repair orders, and  invoices (including accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance,  service and repair activity concerning the subject vehicle.  Rental car or loaner agreements  regarding alternate transportation provided during service or repair visits  concerning the subject vehicle. Records of communications with  dealer personnel, and/or factory representatives and Defendant's call center or  customer assistance personnel concerning the subject vehicle. Warranty claims submitted to  and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle. Warranty Policy and Procedure  Manual or similar policies or claim-handling procedures published by Defendant  from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the  lawsuit was filed. Defendant's written statements of  policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or  replacement pursuant to "Lemon Law" claims, including ones brought  under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the subject vehicle  was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed. A list or compilation of customer  complaints that are substantially similar to the defects claimed by plaintiff,  in vehicles purchased of the same year, make and model of the subject  vehicle.  A substantially similar  customer complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction,  dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the  description listed in any work order or repair order for vehicles of the same  year, make, and model as the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled  maintenance items.  The list provided by  Defendant may be in the chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN,  date of repair visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other  customers' reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers'  names, addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal  identifying information. Technical Service Bulletins and  Recall Notices for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject  vehicle whether mentioned in the repair history of the subject vehicle or not.  Copies of any repair instruction,  bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair  order/invoice records for the subject vehicle. If a party believes any of this  information should be subject to a protective order, that party shall first  meet and confer as to agreeable language for the order, if not already done.  Absent a stipulation, the requesting party shall file a motion for a protective  order. The information may be provided  to the opposing party in electronic form as a PDF at the option of the  producing party. Plaintiff and defendant shall  serve verifications with the documents they produce. Any additional requests  for documents may only be propounded by stipulation and/or court order (via  motion upon showing of good cause). IT IS SO ORDERED.    