  Case Number:  20SMCV00909    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Michael
James Nohaile et al. v. HLI Holdings, LLC et al., Case No. 20SMCV00909
Hearing
date May 29, 2024
Cross-Complainant
Titan Contracting Services, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication against
Cross-Defendant Edden Glass and Mirror
Plaintiffs sue
for alleged defects in the home they purchased from builder/developer defendants
Titan, HLI Holdings and LI Investments. General contractor defendant Titan
Contracting cross-complained against twenty of its sub-contractors. Titan now moves
for summary adjudication against sub-contractor/cross-defendant Edden Glass and
Mirror as various causes of action. However, Titan’s motion is, in fact, a
motion directed a single issue: the existence of Edden’s duty to defend.
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to enable summary dismissal without the need for trial where an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a claim or defense. See Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843. Summary judgment is
granted when, with all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of
fact exist, and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733,
741.
 
Titan’s
Notice of Motion states: “This Motion is made pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure 437c(f)(1), and more specifically, the duty of SUBCONTRACTOR to
defend DEFENDANT in the instant action based upon the subcontract between the
parties, California Civil Code §2778(5), and the allegations of the operative
Complaint.” (Not. of Mot., 2:18-21.)
The only
relief Titan seeks is “in the form of a binding declaration that [Edden] be
required to immediately and retroactively to the date of tender defend [Titan]
against Plaintiff’s claims arising from [Edden]’s work at the Project [the
Property].” (MPA, 12:13-14.) That relief is granted.
“In the interpretation of a contract of indemnity, ... [a]n indemnity
against claims, or demands, or liability, expressly, or in other equivalent
terms, embraces the costs of defense against such claims, demands, or liability
incurred in good faith, and in the exercise of a reasonable discretion.” Civ.
Code, § 2778(3). 
“Parties to a contract, including a construction contract, may define
therein their duties toward one another in the event of a third party claim
against one or both arising out of their relationship. Terms of this kind may
require one party to indemnify the other, under specified circumstances, for
moneys paid or expenses incurred by the latter as a result of such claims. ... They
may also assign one party, pursuant to the contract's language, responsibility
for the other's legal defense when a third party claim is made against the
latter.” Crawford v. Weather Shield Mgf., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541,
551. “The duty to defend [is] not a question of fact for the jury” but instead,
it is a question of law for the court. Centex Homes v. R-Help Construction
Co., Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 1230, 1236. 
Titan provides a copy of the parties’ contract, the authenticity or
enforceability of which Edden does not dispute. See Cross-Compl.’s Exh. 6. In
relevant part, the contract reads:
“7.2.    Construction
Defect Claims
7.2.1    The Work performed by Subcontractor shall be
at the risk of Subcontractor and its employees ... . ... Subcontractor, to the
fullest extent permitted by law ... , shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless
the Indemnitees, and each and all of them, from and against and [sic]
any and all Claims arising out of construction defects ... .
7.2.2.   As to any Construction Defect Claim, ...
Subcontractor agrees and acknowledges that it shall have a duty to defend the
Indemnitees, each and all of them, immediately upon written notification
(‘Tender’) by Contractor to Subcontractor ... .” Id., p. 10.
Titan also
proffers ten Tender Letters sent to Edden or its insurer between August 2021
and July 2023. This evidence establishes Titan’s initial burden on summary
adjudication. As there is no evidence in opposition, Titan has proven, as a
matter of law, that Edden owes it a duty to defend beginning with Titan’s
tender, and Titan has tendered its defense to Edden. GRANTED.