  Case Number:  23TRCV00136    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  P Motion  for Summary AdjudicationMoving  Parties: Defendant  Ike Agbasi                     Responding Party: Plaintiffs Jason Medina and  Biance Hernandez  RULING  The court  considered the moving papers and opposition. Defendant Agbasi’s motion for  summary adjudication is DENIED. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND  On January 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Jason Medina (“Medina”) and Biance  Hernandez (“Hernandez”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against  Defendants Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”); Ike Agbasi (“Agbasi”); and DOES 1-20, inclusive. On June 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed to dismiss Lyft from the case.  On August 14, 2024, Agbasi filed the instant motion. Plaintiffs filed an  opposition on October 17, 2024.  FACTUAL BACKGROUND On October  22, 2022, Plaintiffs decided to drive to CVS to get medicine for Plaintiff  Hernandez. (Opp., p. 3, lines 9-10.) Medina tried to use his father’s vehicle,  but it would not start. (Opp., p. 3, lines 10-11.) At the time, Medina owned a 2014  Nissan Rogue, which was insured under his name, but it similarly would not  start. (Opp., p. 3, lines 11-13.) Medina instead chose to drive a 2018 Toyota  Camry (the “Camry”) owned by Plaintiff Hernandez. (Opp., p. 3, lines 14-15.) While  driving to their destination, Plaintiffs were rear-ended by Agbasi. (Opp., p.  3., lines 16-17.) Agbasi moves  for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ claim for non-economic damages,  pursuant to Civ. Code section 3333.4. Agbasi submits  the deposition of Hernandez to support his contention that the Camry was  uninsured. Plaintiffs argue that Hernandez answered in the affirmative when  asked if the Camry was insured, and anything said after that is mere  speculation. Further, Plaintiffs submit proof that Medina was insured under a  separate policy, satisfying his financial responsibility under Civ. Code  section 3333.4. (Medina Decl., Exh. 1.)  LEGAL STANDARD          The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow  a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support  for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the  need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th  826, 843.) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of  persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material  fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to  find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in  accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Id. at p. 850.) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production  to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of  material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and  the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to  make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.” (Ibid.)  “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what  inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from  the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in  mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine  issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide  the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual  issues must be resolved by trial.”  (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.  (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court  may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose  version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary  judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Id. at  p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of  Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for  summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must  instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all  reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)     A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of  action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty if that  party contends that there is no merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim  for damages, or if the party contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary  adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of  action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of  duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or  more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if  that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an  affirmative defense to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573,  583.)  Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit,  the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material  fact exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th  at p. 583.)    Code Civ. Proc. section 437c, subd. (t) sets forth the procedure for  summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than  punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,  affirmative defense, or issue of duty. Before filing the motion, the moving  party must file (1) a joint stipulation that states the issues to be  adjudicated and (2) declarations from each stipulating party that the motion  will further the interest of judicial economy by decreasing trial time or  significantly increasing the likelihood of settlement. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c,  subd. (t)(1).)  DISCUSSION            Moving Party’s Argument  Agbasi argues that under Civ. Code section 3333.4, Plaintiffs cannot  recover general damages because the Camry was uninsured.  Opposing Party’s Argument  Plaintiffs contend that the motion is moot because California courts have  already determined that the applicability of Civ. Code section 3333.4 is a  question of fact for a jury. Further, Plaintiffs argue that Agbasi has not met  his burden of showing that there is no triable issue of material fact. Even if  he did, Civ. Code section 3333.4 requires “scienter,” which is not present in  this matter.  Merits of the Motion  1.  Procedural Deficiencies  The instant motion seeks adjudication of a claim of damages, other than  punitive damages, which does not dispose of an entire cause of action,  affirmative defense, or issue of duty. As such, the motion must be accompanied  by a joint stipulation and declarations that the motion serves the interests of  judicial economy.  Agbasi brings this motion as to Plaintiffs’ claim for non-economic  damages, not as an affirmative defense. Thus, Agbasi was required to file the  joint stipulation and declarations before bringing the motion. The court notes  that neither the joint stipulation nor the declarations were filed.  Accordingly, the court finds that Agbasi’s motion is procedurally deficient.  2.  Applicability of Civ. Code  section 3333.4  Civ. Code section 3333.4, subd. (a) provides in relevant part:  [I]n any action to recover damages arising out of  the operation or use of a motor vehicle, a person shall not recover  non-economic losses to compensate for pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical  impairment, disfigurement, and other nonpecuniary damages if any of the  following applies:   [¶] . . . [¶]   (2)  The injured person was the owner of a  vehicle involved in the accident and the vehicle was not insured as required by  the financial responsibility laws of this state.   (3)  The injured person was the operative of a  vehicle involved in the accident and the operator cannot establish his or her  financial responsibility as required by the financial responsibility laws of  this state.  Thus, the statute applies to two classes of individuals: (1) owners of  uninsured vehicles and (2) uninsured operators of vehicles.  Defendant contends that the Camry was uninsured based on the deposition  of Bianca Hernandez, which reads in relevant part:   Q: Did you have auto insurance for the vehicle? A: Yes. Or I think there was a lapse – Q: Okay. A: -- in coverage at that time. Q: Do you know when the lapse started? A: I don’t recall. Q: Do you know when you got the policy reinstated? A: I don’t recall. Q: Would there have been any other auto insurance  policies that applied to you or the vehicle, as far as you know? A: I don’t believe so.   Viewed in the light most favorable to the non-moving party, the  deposition testimony does not establish that the Camry was uninsured at the  time of the accident. At most, Hernandez states that she thinks there may have  been a lapse in coverage at some point. However, she is unable to recall when  the lapse began and when coverage renewed. This evidence is insufficient to  meet Agbasi’s burden of showing that there is no triable issue of material fact  regarding the Camry’s insurance status.  Defendant also provides the deposition of Jason Medina, in which he  states that he is unaware of any policy covering the Camry and that he himself  was not insured. If true, Medina would fall under the “uninsured operators of  vehicles” category of drivers under Civ. Code section 3333.4. However,  Plaintiffs submit evidence that Medina, at the time of the accident, was  insured under Kemper Auto Insurance Policy No. 104632045878001. (Medina Decl.,  Exh. 1.) Thus, Civ. Code section 3333.4, subd. (a)(3) is inapplicable.  Accordingly, the court finds that Agbasi has not shown that there is no  triable issue of material fact. Further, the motion was procedurally deficient  under Code Civ. Proc. section 437c, subd. (t).  On those grounds, the motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.  CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is  DENIED.  Plaintiffs to give notice.