  Case Number:  22STCV17088    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 28, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Liset Perez v. Chik Enterprises
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV17088            
 
MOTION
FOR APPROVAL OF PAGA SETTLEMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Liset Perez
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 6/25/24
 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a PAGA action that was filed on May 20, 2022. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant has systematically required its employees to perform pre-shift
and post-shift unpaid work and requiring its employees to work through their 30-minute
meal periods. 
 
Plaintiff moves for approval of a
proposed settlement agreement. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s motion for approval
of settlement of her claims for civil penalties under PAGA is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for approval of a
proposed settlement agreement in which Defendant will pay $191,750 to settle
all claims. 
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
An application to approve a settlement under PAGA must include a copy
of the proposed settlement agreement, a copy of the predicate letter to the
LWDA seeking an investigation of the claims prior to filing the lawsuit, and a
declaration from counsel explaining the reasonable range of recovery in the
case and the reasons why the settlement is fair and reasonable.  Further, “the proposed settlement” must be
given to the LWDA at the same time as the Court receives the request for
approval of the settlement.  (Labor Code section 2699(l)(2).)  
 
The motion submitted to the Court meets the procedural requirements
for this motion.  A copy of the proposed
settlement agreement is included.  (Declaration of James
A. De Sario ISO Mot Exh. A.)  Further,
the declaration of counsel in support of the motion reveals that the settlement
agreement was simultaneously submitted to the LWDA as is required under the
statute, with confirmation of service via online upload.  (Id. ¶ 20, Exh. D.) Plaintiff has also
provided a copy of the predicate letter sent to the LWDA before filing suit.
(Supplemental Declaration of James A. De Sario ISO Mot. Exh. A.) Finally,
Plaintiff has provided a copy of the LWDA’s confirmation of receipt of the
Parties’ stipulation to modify the agreement pursuant to the Court’s May 31,
2024 Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission. (Further Declaration of James A.
De Sario ISO Mot. Exh. H.) Plaintiff has therefore satisfied the procedural
requirements of this motion. 
 
Reasonableness
of Settlement
 
PAGA was enacted to aid public agencies, which lack adequate funding,
in enforcement of California’s labor laws. Private persons suing under the PAGA
do so as a proxy of the state. (ZB, N.A. v. Superior Court (2019) 8
Cal.5th 175, 185 (Lawson).) Aggrieved employees suing under the PAGA are
authorized to recover civil penalties, which advances a law enforcement
function, designed to protect the public. (Ibid., citing Arias v.
Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 986 (Arias) and Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348 (Iskanian)).)
Labor Code §2699(l)(2) requires courts to “review and approve any settlement of
any civil action filed pursuant to this part.” The California Supreme Court
explains that a PAGA claim is a form of a qui tam action. (Iskanian, supra,
59 Cal.4th 348, 382.) 
 
As such, the Court looks to the standards for evaluating a qui tam
settlement in assessing this settlement, that is, whether the settlement is
“fair, adequate, and reasonable.” (Cf. Cal. Govt. Code § 12652 [In a qui
tam action a state or political subdivision may settle the action with the
defendant notwithstanding the objections of the qui tam plaintiff if the court
determines, after a hearing providing the qui tam plaintiff an opportunity to
present evidence, that the proposed settlement is fair, adequate, and
reasonable under all the circumstances].)
 
An application for approval of such a settlement must demonstrate that
the proposed settlement is adequate, reasonable, and fair to all those affected
by it.  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
549.)  Those affected by a PAGA settlement include: (1) the LWDA, who
receives 75% of settlement funds (Lab. Code § 2699(i)) and is “bound by the
outcome of the proceeding to adjudicate the employee’s PAGA claim” (Mejia v.
Merchants Building Maintenance, LLC, supra, 38 Cal.App.5th at p. 732); (2)
the aggrieved employees, both party and non-party, who receive 25% percent of
settlement funds and are, like the LWDA, bound by a PAGA action judgment (Lab.
Code § 2699(i); Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 985);
(3) plaintiffs’ counsel, who may be awarded “reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs” (Lab. Code § 2699(g)(1); and (4) the defendant who pays the settlement.
 
Assessing the fairness and adequacy of any settlement necessitates
decision-making based on unknowns. However, in determining whether a settlement
falls within the parameters of what may be considered reasonable, courts
regularly rely on estimates of potential maximum values weighed against
weaknesses of the claims. Other important indicia of fairness include
arms-length negotiations, experienced counsel, and an adequate investigation of
the claims. But the potential value of the claims being settled is primary to
any evaluation. (Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1794, 1802; Kullar v. Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th
116, 129-130.)
 
            Plaintiff has shown the parties
engaged in an arms-length negotiation by independently meeting and conferring
and participating in mediation with the Hon. Steven R. Denton (Ret.) on May 18,
2023 and September 6, 2023, resulting in this settlement. (De Sario Decl. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff’s counsel has also provided evidence of their substantial experience
in wage and hour litigation and in PAGA actions. (Id. ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
Further, Plaintiff has provided sufficient evidence regarding the
nature of the PAGA investigation to determine its adequacy. Plaintiff states
that Defendant produced a random sampling of time and payroll records, as well
as wage and hour policies and relevant policy documents in place during the
relevant period. (De Sario Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff states there were
approximately 323 aggrieved employees, including Plaintiff, during the relevant
time period, and 4,608 pay periods between May 20, 2021 through September 15,
2023. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.) The Court finds that, based on this evidence, the
investigation of the PAGA claims was adequate to justify a settlement. 
 
Plaintiff calculates, based on the number of workweeks and aggrieved
parties, their hourly rates, and the theories of how the Labor Code was
violated, that the maximum value of the claims would be $808,900. (De Sario
Decl. ¶ 8.) Applying the same fee structure as in the proposed settlement, this
would result in a total net settlement amount to the aggrieved parties of $202,225
amounting to an average recovery of $626.08 among the 323 aggrieved parties,
not accounting for attorney’s fees or enhancements. Here, the settlement
proposes to distribute $25,543.13 (representing 25% of the net Settlement Fund
after enhancements, administration costs, and attorney’s fees) among the 323
aggrieved parties for an average recovery of approximately $79.08 each. (De
Sario Decl. Exh. A § 4.6.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has offered
sufficient evidence to determine the relative strength of the claims and the
range of possible settlement values.
 
The proposed enhancement payment to be paid to Plaintiff out of the
settlement funds appears reasonable. Under the terms of the settlement
agreement, Plaintiff is to receive $2,000 from the settlement funds, amounting
to 1.04% of the total settlement funds, contrasting with the 53% allotted to
the net settlement amount and 13% allotted to the funds to be distributed to
aggrieved employees.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel requests $9,652.75 in costs and $67,112.50 in
attorneys’ fees be paid out of the settlement funds. Plaintiff justifies this
amount as appropriate on the basis that Plaintiff’s counsel achieved a
favorable result in a case that required thorough investigation and intensive
negotiations, and for which there were several potentially meritorious
defenses. The recovery sought is 35 percent of the total settlement amount,
which matches other awards approved by courts in California for wage and hour
claims. (See, e.g., Martin v. Ameripride Servs. (S.D. Cal. June 9, 2011)
2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 61796, 23 [“courts may award attorney’s fees in the
30-40% range in wage and hour class actions that result in recovery of a common
fund under $10 million.) Plaintiff’s counsel does not provide itemized billing
records, but lists the total costs incurred in a declaration under penalty of
perjury. (De Sario Decl.¶ 19.) Plaintiff’s counsel also states under penalty of
perjury that Attorney Michael Nourmand billed $40,672.50 in attorney’s fees,
accounting for 54.23 hours at $750 per hour, and Attorney De Sario billed
$40,000 in fees, accounting for 80 hours at $500 per hour. (Id. ¶ 14.) Thus,
Plaintiff’s counsel is requesting reduced fees compared to the fees actually
billed. Given this showing, the Court finds that the requested fees are
reasonable based on the evidence provided.
 
Plaintiff justifies the requested $9,652.75 in costs on the basis of
the actual litigation costs incurred in this amount. (De Sario Decl. ¶ 19.) The
itemized list of costs accounts for the costs actually incurred. However, the
Court found, in its initial ruling on this matter on April 19, 2024, that the
original proposed settlement allocates considerably more costs to Plaintiff’s
counsel than what is requested on this motion. (April 19, 2024 Minute Order.)
The Court therefore ordered that the allocations be adjusted to account for a
reduction in the claimed costs. (Id.) On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a supplemental declaration from Plaintiff’s counsel to which is attached a
joint stipulation, signed by counsel for the parties, to modify the Settlement
Agreement to reflect this ruling, pursuant to the modification provision in
paragraph 7.10 of the agreement. (Further Declaration of James De Sario ISO
Mot. Exh. F. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff has thus demonstrated that the requested costs, as
modified, are reasonable. 
 
Plaintiff does not state why CPT Group was selected as the
administrator but states that CPT Group “indicated” that the costs to
administer the settlement would  be $10,804.21,
the amount sought in allotment for the settlement administrator. (De Sario Decl.
¶ 19.) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has justified the allotment.
 
In its May 31, 2024 Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission, the Court
instructed the parties to revise the Release Provision of the agreement to
cover only “all claims for PAGA penalties that were pled under the PAGA in the
Action or that reasonably could have been alleged based on the factual
allegations pled in Plaintiffs’ notice to the LWDA, dated May 20, 2022, and the
operative Complaint.” (May 31, 2024 Ruling.) Pursuant to the Parties’
stipulation, the modified release states that all aggrieved parties shall be
deemed to have released Defendants or any related entity from:
 
all claims for PAGA penalties that were
pled under the PAGA in the Action or that reasonably could have been alleged
based on the factual allegations pled in Plaintiffs’ notice to the LWDA, dated
May 20, 2022, and the operative Complaint (i.e., the "First Amended
Complaint filed on November 1, 2022") alleging claims for PAGA civil
penalties, and the theories on which the PAGA claims are premised including:
(1) failure to pay overtime wages; (2) failure to pay minimum wages; (3)
failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to provide rest periods; (5)
failure to pay all wages upon termination; (6) failure to provide accurate wage
statements; and (7) failure to reimburse business related expenses. Aggrieved
Employees cannot opt-out of the Release PAGA Claims. The Released PAGA Claims
exclude claims for workers' compensation or unemployment insurance benefits and
Plaintiffs individual wage and hour claims for unpaid wages, interest,
liquidated damages, statutory penalties, etc.
 
(Further De
Sario Decl. Exh. F ¶ 1.) This updated language is also reflected in the revised
Notice of Settlement. (Id. Exh. G.)  The Court finds that the Release is narrowly
tailored to resolve only the PAGA claims at issue and, thus, is in compliance
with the Court’s direction. 
 
As the Parties have addressed all
of the outstanding issues identified in the Court’s prior rulings, the Court
finds that the proposed settlement, as modified, is fair and reasonable. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for approval of settlement of her claims for civil penalties
under PAGA is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 28, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 