 Case Number:  24PSCV01625    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Ning
Sun v. Allied Physicians of California IPA (DBA Allied Pacific IPA) 
Plaintiff
Ning Sun’s Motion to Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Ning Sun’s
motion to stay proceedings pending arbitration. 
             Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a bad faith insurance action. On May 20, 2024, plaintiff
Ning Sun (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Allied Physicians of
California IPA (DBA Allied Pacific IPA) (Defendant), alleging causes of action
for insurance bad faith – breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligent infliction
of emotional distress. 
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff moved to
stay the proceedings pending arbitration. On November 7, 2024, Defendant
opposed the motion. On November 14, 2024, Plaintiff replied. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before
a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending
shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or
proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to
arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1281.4.) 
DISCUSSION 
            Summary of
Arguments 
            Plaintiff moves to stay this action pending the
completion of arbitration between Plaintiff and non-party Health Net of
California, Inc. (Health Net) in Case Number 23PSCV01850. Plaintiff contends
the outcome of the arbitration will significantly impact the resolution of
central issues in this litigation. 
            In opposition, Defendant
contends there is no written agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant, nor is
there an arbitration agreement between them. Defendant contends Plaintiff has
not filed a motion to compel arbitration and that there is no court order
compelling the parties to arbitrate this dispute. Defendant contends
Plaintiff’s amended JAMS arbitration demand to include Defendant does not
automatically compel Defendant to participate. Defendant contends Plaintiff
improperly attempts to bind Defendant to arbitration as a third party, and that
JAMS’ arbitration rules do not support Plaintiff’s motion since there is no
arbitration agreement between the parties. 
            Analysis 
            The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion unavailing. Plaintiff
being in arbitration with Health Net regarding delays in treatment does not
necessarily justify staying this action. Plaintiff did not present sufficient
evidence demonstrating an overlap of issues between this action and the
arbitration with Health Net. Defendant correctly contends that
Plaintiff did not present evidence of an agreement between the parties
concerning the issues in this case, nor did Plaintiff present any prior order
compelling arbitration of issues pending in this case that would warrant
staying the proceedings. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
1281.2, 1281.4.) Moreover, the Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff’s
attempt to include Defendant in the arbitration involving Health Net does not support
this motion. (Motion, Ex. A.) There is also no order issued by either court
relating these cases. Nor has a notice of related case been filed. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Ning Sun’s
motion to stay proceedings pending arbitration. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.