 Case Number:  23TRCV00253    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 5, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00253
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        HL Group 2
Limited Partnership v. Pacific Point Fund 1, LP, et al. 
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,
HL Group 2 Limited Partnership
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Pacific Point Fund 1, LP  
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Form Interrogatory 15.1
                                                (2)
Request for Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel is GRANTED.  Code-compliant verified further responses
that separate out the affirmative defenses and state which facts, witnesses, or
documents support which defenses, are required within 30 days.  For the denials of material allegations, the verified
further responses to FROG 15.1 must identify each material allegation Defendant
denies or disputes, and for each denial or dispute Defendant must separately identify
which facts, witnesses and documents support each such denial or disputed
allegation, also within 30 days.
                                                (2)
Request for Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,000, payable by defense
counsel to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days
 
  
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
On January 27, 2023, Plaintiff,
HL Group 2 Limited Partnership (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Pacific Point Fund I, LP (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint
alleged a cause of action for promissory estoppel. This cause of action is
based on the following facts: In September 2020, Borrower LOANCO
allegedly took out a business-purpose loan for $1,360,000.00 from Defendant PPF
as first lien secured by the Property. In December 2020, Borrower LOANCO
apparently entered into an agreement with Plaintiff HGL2 under which Plaintiff
would manage the subdivision of the Property into three residential condominium
units that, upon development completion, would be sold. Pursuant to this
agreement, LOANCO quitclaimed the Property to Plaintiff. Defendant’s loan went
into default and it exercised its right to commence a nonjudicial foreclosure
sale. The Notice of foreclosure sale was recorded on October 12, 2022 with the
sale date scheduled for November 2, 2022.
 
With
the foreclosure sale date pending, Plaintiff contacted Defendant requesting
that the foreclosure be stayed. Plaintiff allegedly claimed that it had entered
into sales agreements for the three subdivisions, and Defendant agreed to
extend the sale. This is where Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s accounts diverge.
Plaintiff contends in Paragraph 12 of its Complaint (attached as Exhibit A to
the motion) that the parties entered an oral agreement as follows: “In or about
October 2022, HLG2 and PPF entered into an oral agreement with PPF which
provided that HLG2: (1) would pay the real estate tax arrearages and keep all
tax payments on the PROPERTY current; and (2) would, at its own cost and
expense, complete the work necessary for the City of Inglewood approve the
subdivision of the Property into three condominium parcels; and, (3) would
complete all the necessary work to complete the renovation and/or conversion of
the property to the three condominium units; and (4) markets and sell the three
proposed condominiums to willing buyers.” 
 
Based
on Plaintiff’s representation of imminent sales of the subdivisions, Defendant
agreed to stay the foreclosure. Defendant extended the sale from November 2,
2022 to November 30, 2022 and then again from November 30 to December 28, 2022.
Apparently, on December 16, 2022, agents for LOANCO recorded a deed purporting
to quitclaim the Property from Plaintiff back to LOANCO. Plaintiff claims this
deed was false and further that it prevented the arranged sales from being
completed on the subdivisions. Plaintiff filed suit on December 20, 2022,
against LOANCO based thereon with Case No. 22TRCV01540 (the “First Action”). 
 
On
May 1, 2023, Plaintiff noted that it served Defendant with Form
Interrogatories, Set One. Further, Plaintiff notes that after granting it several
extensions of time for defendant to provide responses, Defendant served
responses on August 18, 2023. However, Plaintiff indicates that Defendant
failed to provide a Code compliant response to Form Interrogatory 15.1, and
despite efforts to meet and confer, Defendant has failed to provide either an
intent to engage in meet and confer discussions or to provide the requested Code
compliant response to this specific interrogatory. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
September 6, 2023, Plaintiff brought this Motion to Compel Further. On
September  26, 2023, Defendant filed an
opposition. On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.  
 
¿II. MEET AND CONFER
EFFORTS 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that it sent a meet and confer letter on August 18, 2023. Plaintiff
further notes that its counsel contended that he called counsel for Defendant
on September 5, 2023, and was assured a call would be returned by end of day on
September 6, 2023. However, counsel for Defendant asserts he never received
this message. Defendant’s counsel seems to suggest that meet and confer efforts
were not made in good faith, but also does not give a reason to why they did
not respond to the meet and confer letter sent on August 18, 2023. In spite of
this, even though Plaintiff had until September 22, 2023 to file this motion,
the Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts sufficient enough for the filing of this
motion.  Defendant not only neglected to
respond to the meet and confer letter, but also the defense did not even
provide any supplemental responses while the motion was pending which might have
mooted the motion.
 
III. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by propounding to any other party to the action written interrogatories to
be answered under oath.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010, subd. (a).)¿¿ “The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded
shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of
the following: (1) An answer containing the information sought to be
discovered[;] (2) An exercise of the party's option to produce writings[;] (3)
An objection to the particular interrogatory.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.210,
subd. (a).)¿“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party
may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party
deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate[;] (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)¿ 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that Form Interrogatory 15.1 seeks
information related to Plaintiff’s complaint allegations and affirmative
defenses. While Defendant did respond to the interrogatory, Plaintiff argues
that the response is not Code compliant as it is a general narrative statement
that wholly fails to properly respond to this interrogatory and its subparts.
Further, Plaintiff notes that Defendant’s answer to the complaint consists of
twenty-five (25) affirmative defenses and “additional defenses,” but that their
answer does not, in a Code-compliant way, state the factual basis if any for
each defense, nor does defendant’s verified response identify witnesses and
documents that support the denial of each material fact and asserted
affirmative defenses. Plaintiff argues that such discovery is elementary and
necessary in the preparation of Plaintiff’s case for trial. The Court agrees. 
 
As part of Defendant’s requirement to provide Code
compliant responses, it must do so in the manner in which the Form
Interrogatory is laid out. Defendant failed to do so here, and must answer each
subpart of Form Interrogatory 15.1. If Defendant cannot respond to the subpart
of the Form Interrogatory, it must state why it cannot. If Defendant relies on
the option to produce documents to answer a subpart of FROG 15.1, it must
identify by Bates number or similar reference the collection of documents containing
the response to each allegation that Defendant denies and/or each affirmative
defense as to which there are facts, witnesses or documents that support each
such defense.  Because Defendant’s
response did not originally do so, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.  Verified further responses are ordered to be
provided within 30 days.  
 
It is not a legitimate objection to this Judicial-Council
approved interrogatory that a Code-compliant response would take hours and
hours to prepare, nor is it proper grounds for objection that the FROGs were
designed only for motor vehicle cases, nor is it a proper objection that a
single narrative answer suffices because the same facts are claimed to apply to
every affirmative defense or to every denial of a material allegation of the Plaintiff’s
lawsuit.
 
C.   
Sanctions 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.) 
Here, Plaintiff has requested fees
and costs in the amount of $2,119.60. In support of this request, Plaintiff
attaches declaration of its counsel, John M. Boyko (“Boyko Decl.”) Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that he has been licensed and a practicing attorney in the
state of California since June of 1977. (Boyko Decl., ¶ 14.) He also indicates
that his billing rate for this matter is $500/hour and that he spent the
following hours in connection with this motion: (1) 0.2 hours to review
responses to FROGS; (2) 0.4 hours preparing meet and confer letter; (3) 2 hours
preparing the instant motion along with the separate statement of
interrogatories and responses; (4) 1 hour estimated time to prepare a reply to
the anticipated opposition; and (6) 0.5 hours estimated time to argue the
motion. The Court finds the hours spent on this motion to be quite reasonable
given the much greater amounts of time often claimed for bringing a similar motion.  Mr. Boyko’s hourly rate is also within the
realm of reasonableness.  But because
Defendant provided substantive responses, although not per se Code-compliant,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions in the lowered and rounded amount
of $2,000.  Sanctions
are payable within 30 days from defense counsel to plaintiff’s counsel.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.

 
 