 Case Number:  23TRCV00406    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 5, 2022¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00406
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Inglewood
Church of Crist v. Zeeba Vans Company, Inc, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
Zeeba Vans, Inc., dba Zeeba Vans, Kayvon Marashi, and Michael Paletz 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Inglewood Church of Christ
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿to First Amended Complaint
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 14, 2023, Plaintiff, Inglewood Church of Christ, filed a Complaint
against Defendants Zeeba Vans Company, Inc., dba Zeeba Vans, Kayvon Marashi,
and Michael Paletz, and DOES 1 through 10 (collectively “Defendants”). On July
12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Account Stated; and (3)
Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation/Deceit. 
 
Defendants
now, jointly, filed a demurrer to the FAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 6, 2023, Defendants
filed a Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, which was filed after the
Court sustained a demurrer with leave to amend as to the original complaint.  On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On September 26, 2023, Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
¿ 
Defendants Marashi and Paletz
bring a general demurrer jointly and severally to the First and Second causes
of action on the grounds that Marashi and Paletz are neither parties to nor
guarantors of the commercial lease agreement attached as an exhibit to the FAC
and on the grounds that there is no account stated between Marashi, Paletz and
Inglewood Church of Christ. Further, all Defendants demur to the third cause of
action as they argue it fails to state facts sufficient to allege fraud. 
 
 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
B. Discussion  
 
Breach
of Contract 
Defendants argue that Defendant Marashi and Paletz are not
contractual parties. To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a
breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the
terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the
written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
Here, Defendants argue that Plaintiff may
not maintain an action for breach of contract against Defendants Marashi and
Paletz as they are not parties to the contract. The Court notes that
Plaintiff’s FAC includes language identifying Defendants Marashi and Paletz as
agents, servants, employees, partners, alter egos, and/or joint venturers of
all Defendants named, however, this alone is not enough to overcome corporate
protection against personal liability. As a general proposition, “facts
appearing in exhibits attached to the complaint will … be accepted as true and,
if contrary to the allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.”  (Dodd v. Citizens Bank of Costa Mesa
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1624, 1627.)  The
Court recognizes the proposition advanced in Plaintiff’s Opposition brief that
when testing a pleading against a demurrer the facts alleged in the pleading
are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be. “The courts, however,
will not close their eyes to situations where a complaint contains allegations
of fact inconsistent with attached documents, or allegations contrary to facts
which are judicially noticed.”  (Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)  That is the circumstance here, i.e., the
written contract attached to the Complaint indicates that Zeeba Vans, a
corporation, is the sole party contracting with Plaintiff, is the sole party
named as the Lessee, and that Mike Paletz is listed as a “representative of
Zeeba who signed the contract as Zeeba’s VP of Operations.  The incorporated allegations of the exhibit
to the FAC control over inconsistent allegations in the body of the FAC’s
paragraphs of allegations.  
It is not enough for Plaintiff to allege
Defendants Marashi and Paletz were agents or alter egos of Defendant Zeeba in
order to overcome the language of the attached contract that only Zeeba was the
contracting party and Lessee.  It is
black letter agency law that “an agent is ordinarily not liable on the contract
when he acts on behalf of a disclosed principal.”  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101
Cal.App.3d 903, 929 (affirming trial court’s ruling on demurrer to warranty
claim while distinguishing tort causes of action.)  “The legal fiction of the corporation as an
independent entity—and the special benefit of limited liability permitted
thereby—is intended to insulate stockholders from personal liability for
corporate acts and to insulate officers from liability for corporate contracts;
the corporate fiction, however, was never intended to insulate officers from
liability for their own tortious conduct.” 
(Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490,
507–508.)  Here, the face of the contract
that Plaintiff itself attached to the FAC shows that Zeeba was the disclosed principal,
and that Paletz was acting as Zeeba’s agent. 
The first cause of action is one for breach of the corporation’s contract
with Plaintiff, and absent allegations of any exception to the general rule the
disclosed officers or agents of the corporation will not be held individually
liable for the corporation’s breach of that contract.  
The Court thus sustains the demurrer by
Marashi and Paletz to the first cause of action, with leave to amend.  Plaintiff could, for example, plead facts
which show how the corporate veil is pierced in this case allowing Defendants
Marashi and Paletz to be personally liable for actions taken on behalf of a
disclosed principal corporation.  Or
Plaintiff might allege an exception to the general rule.  The Court invites oral argument as to how the
FAC could be further amended to address this issue.
Account
Stated 
 
“The essential elements of an account stated
are: (1) previous transactions between the parties establishing the
relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties,
express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; [and]
(3) a promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount due.” (Leighton
v. Forster (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 467, 491.)
Here, Plaintiff alleges that within the last
four years, an account stated by and between Plaintiff and Defendants exists
where Defendants are indebted to Plaintiff in the sum of $51,000 together with
any applicable interest, costs and attorneys’ fees as provided by statute and
law. (FAC, ¶ 41.) Plaintiff also asserts that no part of said sum has been paid
by Defendants, although demand for payment has been made by Plaintiff, and
there is now due, owing and unpaid. (FAC, ¶ 42.)
Defendants argue in their demurrer that the
account stated cause of action is based entirely and solely on the written
commercial lease agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant Zeeba Vans Company. Defendants
argue that there are no previous transactions between Plaintiff and Marashi or
Paletz to establish any debtor-creditor relationship between them. The Court
concurs; common counts such as account stated allege ex contractu liability,
subject to the general rule that an agent or employee or even a corporate
shareholder of officer is immune form persona liability for the corporation’s
contracts.  
As noted above, the Court understands that
Plaintiff has pleaded that Defendants Marashi and Paletz were acting on behalf
of Defendant Zeeba Vans Company and even alleges that they are alter egos of
Zeeba Vans Company. (FAC, ¶ 4.) However, as noted above, when a contract is
pleaded and attached to the complaint, such a document is judicially noticeable
and is given precedence over boilerplate and inconsistent allegations in the
body of the pleading that the individuals were agents or principals for every
other defendant.  Here, the contract
attached to the FAC identifies the Lessee as Zeeba Vans. As such, Plaintiff will
need to allege more specific facts as to how Defendants Marashi and Paletz are alter
egos of Defendant Zeeba Vans and how they could or should be held personally
liable for the acts of their disclosed principal.  The Corporate form of an entity provides
personal liability protection to individuals unless the corporate veil is pierced.
Plaintiff’s future pleadings must require more specific facts in order to
allege account stated against Defendants Marashi and Paletz. As such, the
demurrer to the second cause of action against Defendants Marashi and Paletz is
SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
 
Fraud/Intentional
Misrepresentation/Deceit 
 
“The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly
making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke,
what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.)
Further, “[t]he elements of a cause of action
for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with
knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on
the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every
element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
Here, as noted by Defendants, it is unclear
which species of fraud is being alleged. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants, and
each of them fraudulently induced and invited Plaintiff to enter into the
aforementioned written contract by misrepresenting to Plaintiff that Defendants
would and could pay the sum of $3,000 per month under the express terms of the
written contract, and would further store no more than twenty (20) vehicles on
Plaintiff’s property at any time. (FAC, ¶ 44.) Plaintiff also alleges that
Defendants knew, or should have known, that Defendants’ were unable or
unwilling to pay the monthly rent payment as they had represented to Plaintiff.
(FAC, ¶ 45.) Plaintiff asserts that Defendants knew they intended to store more
than 20 vehicles on Plaintiff’s property, and concealed this from Plaintiff in
order to further fraudulently induce Plaintiff to enter into the contract.
(FAC, ¶ 46.) Plaintiff contends it reasonably relied on Defendants
misrepresentations because Defendants held themselves out to the public and
Plaintiff as reputable and professional and that they were able and willing to
perform under the contract in the manner represented to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 47.)
Plaintiff argues it sustained damage in the form of loss of property, loss of
legal rights, loss of business opportunities, and other damages. (FAC, ¶ 55.)
Plaintiff also: (1) identifies Defendants Paletz and Marashi, acting on behalf
of themselves and Defendant Zeeba Vans Company, were authorized to speak as
corporate officers and managing agents, representatives, and/or employees; (2) that
the spoke with Plaintiff; (3) what they said; and (4) the dates they said it. 
            Here, although the
Court finds that Plaintiff meets all the required elements and specificity of a
fraud claim, the Court still believes that Plaintiff’s fraud pleading is
uncertain as it is not specific as to which species of fraud Plaintiff is
pleading. As such, the Court recommends that the Plaintiff amend its pleading
to specifically tailor its cause of action for fraud to a type of fraud. Are
they pleading fraudulent misrepresentation? Fraudulent inducement? Fraudulent
concealment? It is unclear based on the face of the FAC. Further, the amended
fraud allegation should allege specific facts that indicate whether the claimed
misrepresentations were made at the outset of the contract, at some later point
during performance, or some other time.  As
such, the demurrer is sustained on uncertainty grounds alone. Plaintiff is
GRANTED twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
¿¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.¿¿¿¿ 