 Case Number:  22TRCV00630    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 5, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00630
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        John
Doe J.Y. v. Doe #1, a public entity, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Centinela Valley Union High School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, John Doe J.Y. 

¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set. 
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED
in part and MOOTED in part. 
 
 
                                                
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On July 28, 2022, Plaintiff, John Doe J.Y.
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Doe #1, a public entity.
The Complaint alleges personal injuries and damages from Childhood Sexual
Abuse. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s former employee, and now deceased,
Catherine Schindler (“Schindler”), abused Plaintiff while Plaintiff was a
student in Defendant’s school district. 
 
Defendant’s Motion asserts that the Plaintiff’s entire
complaint should be barred for failure to comply with the government claims
presentation requirement, and to the second cause of action for Failure to
Report Child Abuse in Violation of CANRA as Defendant argues it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the district. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September
12, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. On September 21,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On September 28, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief.  
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            Plaintiff,
concurrently with his opposition, requested this Court take judicial notice of
the following document: 
1.     
Exhibit 1: Board Policy 5141.4: child Abuse Prevention and
Reporting from the Centinela Valley Union High School District’s website. 
 
The court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS  
 

A.   
Legal Standard 
 
The
standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially
the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of
the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)  Matters which are
subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint
and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject
to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the
supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise permits. (Id.) 
The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull
(1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)  
 
When the moving party is a
defendant, he must demonstrate either of the following exist: 
 
(i)                
The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause
of action alleged in the complaint. 
(ii)             
The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(a)(B)(i)-(ii).)  
 
Additionally, a motion for
judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least
five days before the date a motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)
 
B.    
Discussion  
                 
Government Claim
Presentation 
 
            Per the Government Claims Act, a party
with a claim for damages against a public entity must first file claim directly
with that entity. The party may file a lawsuit only if the public entity denies
or rejects the claim. (Gov. Code §§ 905, 945.4; City of Ontario v. Superior
Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 894.) Further, an action against a public
employee is barred if an action against the employing public entity would be
barred by the failure to satisfy the entity claims requirements. (Gov. Code, §
950.2.) The claims presentation requirement provides the public entity with an
opportunity to evaluate the claim and decide whether to pay on the claim. (Roberts
v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 474.) Failure to allege
facts demonstrating compliance with the claims presentation requirement
subjects the complaint to a general demurrer. (State of Cal. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.) However, claims based on childhood
sexual assault are exempt from the claims presentation requirement under the
Government Claims Act. (See Coats v. New Haven Unified School Dist.
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 428; Gov. Code, § 905, subd. (m).)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not complied with the Government Claims Act. But
Plaintiff alleges that he is a victim of childhood sexual assault, and thus,
the claims presentation requirement does not apply. The Court is perplexed by
the majority of Defendant’s analysis section. Defendant cites to numerous cases
from the 1800s and early 1900s to argue that the legislature does not have
power to create a liability against the state for any such past act of negligence
upon the part of its officers. Defendant also contends that the rules from
these cases indicate that the Legislature cannot pass a law attempting to impose
liability on a public entity for a past occurrence where there is no
enforceable claim. Defendant proceeds to argue that prior to the passage of AB
218, Plaintiff did not have an enforceable claim against the District.
Defendant notes that Plaintiff alleges that the misconduct occurred between
1976 and 1978 (Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 11), and at the time, the Government Code
expressly provided that “no suit for money damages may be brought
against a public entity on a cause of action for which a claims is required to
be presented ... until a written claim therefor has been presented to the
public entity.” (Gov. Code § 945.4.) Defendant argues that at the time, under
the existing law, a claim was required to be presented no later than six (6)
months after the accrual of the cause of action. Defendant uses these prior
precedents to point out, as the Court and Plaintiff are aware, that because
Plaintiff never presented a government claim to the District, there was never a
time in this case prior to 2020 that all of the elements of a cause of action
against the District were satisfied. This argument, amongst Defendant’s
argument that the appropriation of public funs for unenforceable claims serves
no public purpose as a matter of law, concludes Defendant’s analysis section
arguing that the Legislature cannot retroactively impose liability on a public
entity where, prior to passage of the law, the plaintiff had no enforceable
claim. 
 
As noted by Plaintiff in his opposition, all of the
precedents cited by Defendant pre-date the 2019 Legislative amendment to Code
of Civil Procedure § 340.1, which expanded the reach of the statute.
Additionally, the Court notes that the constitutionality of Code of Civil
Procedure § 340.1 with respect to the claims presentation requirement was
addressed by the Court of Appeal in Coats v. New Haven Unified School
District (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415. In Coats, the appellants sued a
school district alleging childhood sexual abuse by one of the school’s
teachers. (Id. at 418.) There, the trial court dismissed the appellants’
claim because they failed to comply with the school district’s
claim-presentation requirement. (Id. at 418-19.) However, the Court of
Appeal reversed based on the 2019 amendment to Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1,
and found “[i]n the face of a revival provision expressly and unequivocally
encompassing claims of childhood sexual abuse previously barred for failure to
present a timely government claim, it is clear we must revers the trial court’s
judgment.” (Id. at 430-31.) The Court of Appeal there also noted the
Legislature’s consistent work to expand the ability of victims of childhood
sexual abuse to seek compensation. (Id. at 430.) 
 
It appears to the Court that Defendant is raising
similar issues already decided by the Court in Coats, including the “ex post
facto” argument. However, the Court noted “that Legislation reviving the
statute of limitations on civil law claims does not violate constitutional
principles.” (Id. at 425.) This Court is not persuaded by Defendant’s
arguments and notes that it is bound by the precedent set by the Court of
Appeals which has already decided many of these issues. 
 
The Court finds that Defendant’s Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
Second
Cause of Action: Failure to Report Child Abuse in Violation of CANRA
 
            The Court notes that on September
20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal without prejudice as to
Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action. As such, the Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings as to this cause of action is mooted. 

 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For
the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings generally
is DENIED. Further, as to the Second Cause of Action, Defendant’s Motion is
mooted by the voluntary dismissal of this cause of action. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.¿¿¿¿ 