

Hearing Date:             July 18, 2024  
Case Name:                Chi-Ping Liu aka Joyce Liu v.
RPM Property Management, LLC, et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV25116
Motion:                       Demurrer
with Motion to Strike
Moving
Parties:          Defendants Rpm Property
Management LLC, Victor Liu, Yiuli Leh, and Catherine Liu

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Chi-Ping Liu aka Joyce Liu


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The demurrer is
overruled. The motion to strike is denied.
 

 
This is an action over ownership
distribution allegedly owed but not paid by Defendants RPM Property Management,
LLC (RPM), Chen-Wei Liu, Yiuli Yeh, and Catherine Liu to Plaintiff Chi-Ping
(Plaintiff). On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit alleging the
causes of action for (1.) accounting, (2.) failure to pay distributions, (3.)
breach of fiduciary duty, (4.) conversion, and (5.) money had and received.
 
On January 5, 2024, Defendants RPM
Property Management, LLC, Chen-Wei Liu, Yiuli Yeh, and Catherine Liu
(Defendants) demurred to its the second through fifth causes of action.
Defendants also filed a motion to strike the punitive damages allegations in
the Complaint. The Court overruled the demurrer as to the second, third, and
fifth causes of action, but sustained the demurrer to the fourth cause of
action. The Court also granted the motion to strike the punitive damages
allegations. The Court granted leave to amend, ordering Plaintiff to serve and
file the amended complaint on or before April 5, 2024. 
 
            On April
5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”),
asserting the same causes of action in the original Complaint. The FAC also
contains punitive damages allegations.      On
May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss the fourth cause of action
for conversion without prejudice. 
 
            On June
4, 2024, Defendants filed their instant demurrer to the second cause of action
for failure to pay distributions and fifth cause of action for money had and
received. Defendants also filed a motion to strike the punitive damages
allegations in the FAC. 
 
            On July
5, 2024, Plaintiff filed her oppositions to the demurrer and motion to
strike.  
 
            No
timely reply has been filed. 
 
The demurrer is
overruled. The motion to strike is denied.
 
Legal Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law ….” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been
stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
As an initial
matter, the Court finds that Defendants have satisfied the meet and confer
requirement for the demurrer and motion to strike. (Declaration of Kenneth I.
Gross, filed on June 5, 2024, ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
Second Cause of Action for
Failure to Pay Distributions:
 
The second cause
of action alleges that Defendants failed to pay Plaintiff Liu distributions she
owed as the owner of an interest in Defendant RPM. (FAC, ¶ 17.)
 
In its previous
order, the Court found that the original Complaint had alleged facts sufficient
to state a claim for failure to pay distributions and, therefore, overruled the
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action. (See Minute Order dated
March 5, 2024, p. 2 [“Relying on Corporations Code section 17704.04,
subdivision (b), Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendant
RPM had ‘decide[d] to make an interim distribution.’ ¶ In opposition, Plaintiff
points to allegations that Defendant RPM is still in existence (Compl., ¶ 11)
and RPM made a distribution to Defendant Victor Liu based on his ownership
interest (Compl., ¶ 12 [‘Defendants VICTOR LIU, YIULI YEH, and CATHERINE LIU
have made distributions to Defendant VICTOR LIU as the owner of an interest in
Defendant RPM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, LLC, but have failed to make any
distributions to Plaintiff JOYCE LIU.’]). Thus, these allegations, liberally
read, are sufficient to state a claim. ¶ The demurrer to the second cause of
action is overruled”].) 
 
Defendants now
demur the second cause of action, arguing that the second cause of action fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because Plaintiff did
not bring that claim in the name of RPM (i.e., a derivative pleading). In
addition, to the extent Plaintiff is bringing a direct action against the
individual defendants, a derivative pleading is exclusive, and, therefore,
Plaintiff’s failure to plead a derivative claim renders the FAC deficient. 
 
Defendants are incorrect
in arguing that “there cannot be maintained derivative and direct causes of
action simultaneously.” (Demurrer, p. 7:16-17.)
 
 “A single cause of action by a shareholder can
give rise to derivative claims, individual claims, or both.” (Goles v.
Sawhney (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1019, fn. 3.) By way of background, “claims are derivative where the injury alleged is one
inflicted on the corporate entity or on the ‘whole body of its stock,’” and
personal if they “assert[] a right against the corporation which the
shareholder possesses as an individual apart from the corporate entity ….”
(Denevi v. LGCC, LLC (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th
1211, 1222.)
 
In any event, as
Plaintiff argues in her reply, Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 (b)
states that “[a] party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a
demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading has been sustained shall not
demur to any portion of the amended complaint . . . on grounds that could have
been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint ....”
 
Here, the grounds
Defendants are bringing in their instant demurrer could have been raised in
their first demurrer. Since Defendants failed to do so, it is improper for them
to now demur on those grounds. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the second cause of action for failure to pay distributions is
overruled. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for
Money Had and Received
 
“A cause of action
for money had and received is stated if it is alleged the defendant ‘is
indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum “for money had and received by the
defendant for these of the plaintiff.”’ [Citation.]” (Farmers Ins. Exchange
v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.)
 
The Court
previously overruled the demurrer as to the fifth cause of action after finding
that “[t]he allegations in the Complaint alleging indebtedness resulting from
the failure to pay the distributions from Defendant RPM are adequate to state a
claim under this common count.” (Minute Order dated March 5, 2024, p. 5, at the
top of the page.)
 
Defendants now
argue that in so ruling, “the Court recognize[d] that [the fifth cause of
action] … is tied to the failure to pay distributions cause of action, which is
based on the same facts, and is seeking the same relief. Therefore, should
[the] underlying second cause of action be demurred to and sustained for
failure to plead derivatively, then the fifth cause of action for money had and
received should also be considered insufficiently pled absent further amendment
to the second cause of action, and demurrer to [the] fifth cause of action
should be sustained as well.” (Demurrer, p. 9:4-9.) 
 
            The
Court, however, has overruled the demurrer to the second cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action for money had and received is also
overruled. 
 
Legal Standard for Motions to
Strike
 
“The court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or
“irrelevant” matters include allegations not essential to the claim,
allegations neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim
or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of
the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants move to
strike the request for punitive damages from the Complaint.
 
With respect to
the punitive damages request, Plaintiff relies on the allegations in her breach
of the fiduciary duty claim and conversion claim. (FAC, ¶¶ 20, 24.) 
 
However, on May
28, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the conversion claim. 
 
Therefore, the
Court only needs to determine whether Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to
support her punitive damages allegations in connection with her third cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
Punitive damages
are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be
circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request for
punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of oppression,
fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory allegations that
defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with “oppression, fraud, or
malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise to a claim for punitive
damages, but such language is permissible where the complaint contains
sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here, the Court
finds that the FAC has alleged facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages by alleging that Defendants breached their fiduciary duties (e.g., by
stealing Plaintiff’s distributions) with the intent to harm Plaintiff and
because of greed and animosity. (FAC, ¶ 20.)
 
Accordingly, the
motion to strike is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer is overruled. The
motion to strike is denied.
 