 Case Number:  23STCV24107    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
SCOTT CANALES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LOCKTON COMPANIES, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV24107
  Hearing Date:  December 4, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to dismiss 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff Scott
Canales filed this action for declaratory relief against Defendants Lockton
Companies, LLC – Pacific Series, Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC, and Lockton
Partners, LLC. 
            Plaintiff filed this action to
establish that he may freely compete against Defendants by soliciting clients
from his former employment for Defendants, despite restrictive covenants
contained in agreements between the parties. Plaintiff alleges that the
covenants are void and unenforceable under California law. Plaintiff also
alleges that the forum selection provisions are unenforceable because they violate
California’s public policy. 
            On November 6, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion to dismiss based on forum selection clauses within the
applicable contracts. Plaintiff filed his opposition on November 17, 2023.
Defendants filed their reply on November 27, 2023.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“When a court . . . finds that in the
interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside
this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on
any conditions that may be just.” (Id., § 410.30, subd. (a).) “The court
may dismiss without prejudice the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant,
when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.” (Id., § 581, subd.
(h).)
“[C]ourts possess discretion to decline to
exercise jurisdiction in recognition of the parties’ free and voluntary choice
of a different forum.” (Smith, Valentino & Smith, Inc. v. Superior Court
of Los Angeles County (1976) 17 Cal.3d 491, 495.) Where “a plaintiff has
freely and voluntarily negotiated away his right to a California forum,” the
forum selection clause may be given effect “in the absence of a showing that
enforcement of such a clause would be unreasonable.” (Id. at pp.
495-96.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
The Law on Forum Selection Clauses
Courts generally enforce forum selection clauses
unless “(a) the chosen state has no substantial relationship to the parties or
the transaction and there is no other reasonable basis for the parties choice,
or (b) application of the law of the chosen state would be contrary to a
fundamental policy of a state which has a materially greater interest than the
chosen state in the determination of the particular issue . . . .” (Nedlloyd
Lines B.V. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 459, 465.) “The party
opposing enforcement of a forum selection clause ordinarily bears the substantial
burden of proving why it should not be enforced.” (Verdugo v. Alliantgroup,
L.P. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147.) “That burden, however, is reversed
when the claims at issue are based on unwaivable rights created by California
statutes. In that situation, the party seeking to enforce the forum selection
clause bears the burden to show litigating the claims in the contractually
designated forum will not diminish in any way the substantive rights afforded under
California law.” (Ibid.) 
Here, the agreements at issue contain
choice-of-law provisions stating that any dispute is to be resolved in Missouri
court. Missouri has a reasonable relationship to the case because Defendants
are Missouri companies. The primary issue is whether applying Missouri law would
contravene fundamental California policy. 
II.
Application to the Instant Case
            a. Burden Shifting
Under California law, “every contract by
which anyone is restrained from engaging in a lawful profession, trade, or
business of any kind is to that extent void.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 16600.)
This is a nonwaivable statutory right. (Weber, Lipshie & Co. v.
Christian (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 645, 659.) Therefore, Defendants bear the
burden of showing that litigation in Missouri “will not diminish in any way the
substantive rights afforded under California law.” (Verdugo, supra, 237
Cal.App.4th at p. 147.) 
            Defendants argue that the burden
does not shift to them under Verdugo because that case involved a
statute with an express anti-waiver provision. (Verdugo, supra, 237
Cal.App.4th at p. 150, citing Lab. Code, §§ 219(a), 1194(a).) Defendants point
out that under Verdugo, the burden only shifts when the claims at issue “are
based on statutory rights the Legislature has declared unwaivable.” (Id.
at p. 151.) The forum selection clause in Verdugo was not enforced
because it had “the potential to contravene an antiwaiver statute designed
to protect California residents.” (Ibid.) 
While Business and Professions Code
section 16600 does not include its own anti-waiver provision like the one found
in the Labor Code, Civil Code section 3513 provides that “a law established for
a public reason cannot be contravened by a private agreement.” This is an
express anti-waiver provision that applies to any law established for a public
reason, including Business and Professions Code section 16600. (Weber, supra,
52 Cal.App.4th at p. 659.) In that sense, Section 16600 is a “statute[] the
Legislature enacted and specifically made unwaivable to protect California
residents.” (See Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 151.) The claims
at issue “are based on statutory rights the Legislature has declared unwaivable.”
(Ibid.) That the legislative declaration comes from the Civil Code
rather than the Business and Professions Code does not change the conclusion.
Civil Code section 3513 is as much an express legislative declaration as any
other. 
Neither Verdugo nor any of the
cases cited by Defendants stand for the proposition that the burden only shifts
when the statute being litigated itself contains an anti-waiver provision. (See
Olinick v. BMG Entertainment (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1286; Ryze Claim
Solutions LLC v. Superior Court (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 1066.) “A court's
opinion is not authority for a proposition not considered in it.” (People v.
Anderson (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1259, 1275.) Olinick and Ryze
“do[] not affect our analysis because [they] do[] not address the issue of who
carries the burden of proof in determining whether to enforce a mandatory forum
selection clause.” (Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 153.) Ultimately,
Business and Professions Code section 16600 is indisputably a nonwaivable statute.
Therefore, “the claims at issue are based on unwaivable rights created by
California statutes.” (Id. at p. 147.) “Enforcement of the contractual
forum selection and choice of law clauses would be the functional equivalent of
a contractual waiver” of these unwaivable rights. (See America Online, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.) Accordingly, Defendants “bear[]
the burden to show litigating the claims in the contractually designated forum will
not diminish in any way the substantive rights afforded under California law.”
(Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147.) 
            
 
 
b. Satisfying the Burden
“[A] defendant can meet its burden only by
showing the foreign forum provides the same or greater rights than California,
or the foreign forum will apply California law on the claims at issue.” (Verdugo,
supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 157.) 
Unlike California law, Missouri law favors
noncompete clauses. (See, e.g., Schott v. Beussink (Mo. Ct. App.
1997) 950 S.W.2d 621, 625 [“Missouri courts recognize that public policy
approves employment contracts containing restrictive covenants”].) Defendants
do not point to any Missouri statutory provision similar to Business and
Professions Code section 16600. Therefore, Defendants have not satisfied their
burden of showing that Missouri law provides the same or greater rights than
California law. 
Defendants have also not proven that a Missouri
court would apply California law. Defendants argue that it is possible a
Missouri court will apply California law because the court would have to
conduct an analysis before deciding which law to apply. This does not satisfy
Defendants’ burden of showing that a Missouri court “will” apply California
law. (See Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 157.) Defendants’ position
in the case depends largely on the application of Missouri law over California
law. The contracts at issue contain choice-of-law provisions selecting Missouri
law. There is no indication that Defendants intend on stipulating to California
law, or that a Missouri court would apply California law after conducting an
analysis. It is insufficient to merely speculate on what a Missouri court “is ‘likely’
to do,” while avoiding “any specific and definitive argument that [Missouri]
courts either have applied or will apply California” law in similar
circumstances. (Id. at p. 158.)        
Lastly, Defendant Lockton Companies LLC –
Pacific Series has itself argued that a similar forum selection clause would
violate nonwaivable rights under Section 16600. (Compl., Ex. 6 ¶¶ 59, 90, 97, 104.)
Pacific Series previously filed a substantially similar lawsuit (Aon
case) making the same arguments that Plaintiff makes here. (Ibid.)
Defendants cannot make one argument when they want to freely compete and make the
opposite argument when someone else wants to compete against them.   
In sum, Defendants have not satisfied
their burden of demonstrating that “litigating the claims in the contractually
designated forum will not diminish in any way the substantive rights afforded under
California law.” (Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147.) 
III.
Exception Under Section 16602.5
            Defendants also argue that Section
16600 has no bearing at all because this case falls under Section 16602.5. Section
16602.5 is an exception to the general rule enumerated in Section 16600.
Section 16602.5 provides that “[a]ny member may, upon or in anticipation of a
dissolution of, or the termination of his or her interest in, a limited
liability company . . . agree that he or she or it will not carry on a similar
business within a specified geographic area where the limited liability company
business has been transacted, so long as any other member of the limited
liability company, or any person deriving title to the business or its goodwill
from any such other member of the limited liability company, carries on a like
business therein.” 
            However, the application of
exceptions such as Section 16602.5 is a substantive matter to be resolved at
trial. It does not affect the procedural determination of where the case should
be litigated. The case implicates the nonwaivable statutory right to be free from
restrictive covenants even if an exception may apply. Plaintiff may ultimately fail
at invalidating the restrictive covenants under Section 16600. Plaintiff’s
allegations may be disproven for a variety of reasons, including a statutory exception.
But that is not a determination to be made on this motion. Plaintiff is not
required to prove the merits of his claim in order to establish that California
is the proper forum.    
In sum, the claims at issue implicate a nonwaivable
statutory right, and Defendants have not satisfied their burden of demonstrating
that a Missouri forum “will not diminish in any way the substantive rights
afforded under California law.” (Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p.
147.) Therefore, the Court declines to enforce the forum selection clause. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to dismiss is
DENIED.