  Case Number:  21NWCV00133    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  C SAADIA SQUARE LLC vs ALL-WAYS PACIFIC,
LLC, et al.
 
Cross-Complainants Rialto Pacific LLC applies ex parte for
an order continuing the Motion for Summary Judgment currently scheduled for
July 3, 2024. 
 
A party may seek ex parte relief upon an affirmative factual
showing "irreparable harm, immediate danger, or any other statutory basis
for granting relief ex parte." (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1202(c).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (h)
requires a continuance of the hearing on a motion for summary judgment “upon a
good faith showing by affidavit that a continuance is needed to obtain facts
essential to justify opposition to the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(h).) 
 
Cross-Complainants contend that additional time is required
to complete the deposition of Jack Saadia in order to oppose Saadia’s motion
for summary judgment.  Rialto recently filed motions to compel continued
depositions of Joseph Saadia and Jack Saadia.  These motions are scheduled
to be heard by the discovery referee on June 14, 2024, two business days before
Rialto must fine an opposition to Saadia’s motion for summary judgment. 
Since that time, Saadia has agreed to produce Joseph Saadia, but the parties
are unable to complete the deposition until after Rialto’s opposition
deadline.  
 
In Opposition, Saadia contends that there has already been a
stipulation that all parties will enter into a continuance of the motion for
summary judgment if the appointed discovery referee (1) compels further
testimony by Jack Saadia and/or Saadia Square; or (2) finds that Plaintiffs
have not adequately produced text messages. Saadia also contends that the
Referee has expedited hearing and the briefing schedule on the All-Ways
Parties’ motions due to the All-Ways Parties’ contention regarding needing further
discovery to oppose MSJ. 
 
By operation of law, Rialto’s opposition to the motion for
summary judgment is due on June 20, 2024.  If, after the June 14 meeting
with the discovery referee, the parties are unable to reach an agreement
regarding the date for the summary judgment motion, Rialto may apply ex parte
for relief.  The instant ex parte application is premature. 
Accordingly, Rialto’s ex parte application is DENIED.
 
Cross-Complaint to give notice. 