  Case Number:  23CHCV01385    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  1/22/25




Case
  Name: Marc Manfro and Theresa Manfro v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
  Hospital; Christopher Belfour, M.D.; and Does 1 to 50.




Case
  No. 23CHCV01385



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JANUARY 22, 2025
 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV01385

 
Motion
filed: 10/23/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D.
RESPONDING PARTY: none.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting the Moving Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D.’s Motion for
Summary Judgment.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This medical malpractice action arises from the care and
treatment provided to Plaintiff Marc Manfro (“Plaintiff” or “Marc”) by
Defendants Christopher Belfour, M.D. and Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital
(collectively, “Defendants”).  
 
On May 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Marc and Theresa Manfro (“Theresa”)
filed the Complaint against Defendants and Does 1 through 50, alleging two
causes of action: (1) Medical Malpractice, and (2) Loss of Consortium.
Subsequently, Defendants Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital and Christopher
Belfour, M.D. filed their respective Answers to the Complaint on July 14 and
September 8, 2023, respectively.
 
On October 23, 2024, Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D.
filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on
January 9, 2025, Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D. filed a Statement of
Plaintiff’s Non-opposition. On the following day, January 10, 2025, Plaintiffs
Marc and Theresa filed a Notice of Non-opposition.  
 
No Opposition or Reply papers
have been received by the Court. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or
proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In
determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd.(c).) 
 
“[I]f the moving papers establish a prima facie
showing that justifies a [ruling] in the [plaintiff's] favor, the burden then
shifts to the [defendant] to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable material factual issue.”' (Citation.)" (See's Candy Shops,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900, quoting Rehmani
v. Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945, 950.) “The defendant or
cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(1).) 
 
A.   
Cause of
Action – Medical Malpractice
 
The essential elements to establish a claim of medical
malpractice are: (1) duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
breach of that duty; (3) proximate causal connection between negligent conduct
and resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
professional’s negligence. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 468 n.2; citing Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 601, 606; see CACI 500, et seq.)
 
Expert testimony is required in establishing the standard
of care by which the acts of a physician are to be measured. The California
Supreme Court reiterated the rule that the standard of care is “a basic issue
in a malpractice action that can only be proved by [expert’s] testimony, unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstance is within the common
knowledge of the layman.” (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410.) 
 
The proximate causation element hinges on whether the defendant’s
conduct was a “substantial factor” in bringing about the plaintiff’s injuries.
(Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041, 1053.) Furthermore, the
causation “must be proven within a reasonable medical probability based on
competent expert testimony. Mere possibility alone is insufficient to establish
a prima facie case.” (Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, et al.
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402-403.)  
 
 In O’Connor
v. Bloomer (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 385 (O’Connor), the Court of Appeal
considers a motion for summary judgment based on defendants’ declaration as
expert opinions in a medical malpractice action. There, the plaintiff appealed the
trial court’s granting motion for summary judgment for two assistant surgeons, arguing
that the trial court abused its discretion in granting the motion for summary
judgment because it placed too much emphasis on the declarations of Defendants
Dr. Wright and two assistant surgeons. (Id. at 391.)  The Court of Appeal upheld the trial court’s decision,
noting that the “extent of the duties and the responsibilities of assistant
surgeons during heart surgery is not a matter that is within the common
knowledge of lay people,” (Id. at 387) and that the trial court properly
considered these unchallenged expert testimonies. (Ibid.)
 
Here,
Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D. presents expert opinions of emergency
Medicine Physician, William Park, M.D. (“Park”) who is a license physician in
the State of California. (Undisputed Material Fact “UMF,” No. 13, Park Decl. ¶¶
1-2, Ex. “A.”) Park is board-certified by the American Board of Emergency
Medicine, and he is a member of the American College of
Emergency Medicine and the
Orange County Medical Association, with the areas of expertise include
emergency medicine, critical care medicine, and pre-hospital emergency
services. (Ibid.) Moreover, Park’s qualifications have not been
contested by Plaintiffs. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court determines that based on Park’s education, training and experience,
he is familiar with the standard of care in the community for the field of
emergency medicine. 
 
Like the assistant surgeons in O’Connor, Park attests
in his declaration that the care and treatment provided to Plaintiff Marc by
Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D. met the standard of care in the community.
The care and treatment that Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D. provided to
Plaintiff Marc was at all times appropriate, indicated, and within the standard
of care. (Park Decl. ¶¶ 4-7, 8.) 
 
Furthermore, expert evidence shows that to a
reasonable degree of medical probability, no negligent act or omission on behalf
of Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D. caused or contributed to Plaintiff
Marc’s claimed injuries or damages. (UMF No. 23, Park Decl. ¶ 8), establishing that
one or more of the elements of the medical malpractice cause of action cannot
be established.
 
Accordingly,
the Court concludes that relying on Park’s unopposed declarations, serving as
expert testimony, Defendant Christopher Belfour has fulfilled his initial
burden, establishing a prima facie showing that justifies a ruling in his
favor. 
 
 
Consequently, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate
the existence of a triable material factual issue.
 
However, given the Plaintiffs’ Notice of Non-opposition
on the record and the lack of any countervailing evidence to challenge the Park’s
expert testimony, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not met the burden of
demonstrating the existence of a triable material factual issue.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Motion
for Summary Judgment as to the First Cause of Action for Medical Malpractice
against Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D.
 
B.     Second
Cause of Action – Loss of Consortium
 
The elements for a loss of consortium claim includes: (1) a
valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and injured party, at time of
injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff's spouse; (3) loss of consortium
suffered by plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately caused by defendant's
act. (Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927; Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 746 fn. 2.)
 
Significantly, the Supreme Court of California has stated
that “[a]s a factual matter, spouse’s claim for loss of consortium is
unquestionably derivative of, and dependent on, [the other spouse’s] injuries .
. . . A cause of action for loss of consortium is, by its nature, dependent on
the existence of a cause of action for tortious injury to a spouse. [Citation
omitted.]” (LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior Court (2012)  55 Cal.4th 275, 285.)
 
Here, the Second Cause of Action for Loss of Consortium is
asserted by Plaintiff Theresa and is dependent on the Cause of Action for
Medical Malpractice asserted by her husband, Plaintiff Marc. Since the Court
has granted Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment
for Marc’s Medical Malpractice claim against him, Defendant Christopher
Belfour, M.D. cannot be held liable for Teresea’s Loss of Consortium claim, as
it is derivative of Marc’s claim. 
 
Based on the above, the Court GRANTS the Motion as to the
Second Cause of Action for Loss of Consortium against Defendant Christopher
Belfour, M.D.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed
Motion for Summary Judgment, filed by Defendant Christopher Belfour, M.D. is
GRANTED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice.
 