  Case Number:  19STCV12435    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 7, 2024                       TRIAL
DATE: September 10, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         AMG & Associates, LLC, et al. v.
Housing Preservation, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV12435            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Housing Preservation Inc., Silver Tree
Residential LLC, Casa La Merced, L.P., SPE Merced, LLC, and Doug Gilland
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs AMG
& Associates, LLC and Affordable Housing Acquisition Partnership
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/10/19: Complaint filed. 
·        
05/17/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for conversion and breach of contract. Plaintiffs
allege that after contracting with Defendants Gilland and Silver Tree to purchase
a parcel of low-income elderly housing, the Defendants conspired to sabotage
Plaintiffs’ efforts so that Defendants Housing Preservation, SPE Merced, and
Casa La Merced could instead take ownership of the subject property. 
 
Defendants demur to the first cause
of action for intentional interference with contract, the fifth cause of action
for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and the sixth
cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic advantage.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the first cause of action with respect to Defendants Casa
La Merced, L.P. and SPE Merced, L.L.C. only and otherwise OVERRULED. 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants demur to the first cause
of action for intentional interference with contract, the fifth cause of action
for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and the sixth
cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic advantage.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is
not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Defendants’
counsel states that counsel for the parties met and conferred electronically on
June 10, 2024 and by telephone on June 11, 2024. (Declaration of Christopher
Stark ISO Demurrer ¶¶ 3-4.) Although the parties were able to reach an
agreement that limited the scope of the instant Demurrer, they were not able to
fully resolve this dispute. (Id. ¶ 4.) The Court therefore finds that
Defendants have complied with the statutory meet-and-confer requirements.
 
//
 
//
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
           Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) a Declaration by John A.
Lemus, M.D. in support of the Motion of Defendant Casa La Merced (hereafter,
“Prior Owner”) to Expunge Lis Pendens in the matter of AMG & Associates,
LLC et al. v. Casa La Merced, et al., LASC Case No. BC622973 (the “Prior
Action”); (2) the Court’s October 4, 2016 ruling granting that Motion to Expunge
Lis Pendens in the Prior Action; (3) the Certificate of Limited Partnership of
Casa La Merced, L.P. filed with the California Secretary of State as Document
No. 201706800012 on February 28, 2017; and (4) the Articles of Organization as
a Limited Liability Company of SPE Merced, LLC filed with the California
Secretary of State as Document No. 20173010577 on May 3, 2017.
 
           With
respect to request Nos. 1 and 2, Defendants’ requests are GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records), but the Court emphasizes that it
takes judicial notice only of the existence of these documents, not the truth
of their contents. 
 
           Requests
Nos. 3 and 4 are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c) (official
acts). 
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for
Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of additional documents. As none of
the documents offered are relevant to the Court’s ruling, the Court declines to
do so. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
requests for judicial notice are DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93
Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to those
matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].)  
 
Statute of Limitations
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations on the grounds that this claim is barred by the statute
of limitations. 
 
            Defendants
contend that this cause of action is barred by the two-year statute of
limitations. (Knoell v. Petrovich (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 164, 168 [two
years to bring claims for intentional interference with contractual
relations].) Ordinarily, a claim for intentional interference with contract
accrues on the date of the actual breach by the party who was wrongfully
induced to breach a contract. (Trembath v. Digardi (1975) 43 Cal.App.3d
834, 836.) However, a cause of action does not accrue “until the plaintiff
discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action, until, that is, he
at least suspects, or has reason to suspect, a factual basis for its elements.”
(E.g. Nogart v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 389.) The First
Amended Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs entered into a purchase agreement on
January 19, 2016 for the Casa La Merced and Casa Paredes properties (the
“Properties”) with the Prior Owner also called Casa La Merced. (FAC ¶¶ 6-7.)
Both properties were developed with low-income senior housing and overseen by
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. (Id.)
Consequently, the Properties were subject to stringent pre-payment and
refinancing conditions, and the Purchase Agreements required HUD approval of
the transactions. (Id.) Sometime in March 2016, Plaintiffs received a
letter from HUD indicating that the initial refinancing structure would be
unlikely to receive approval. (FAC ¶ 8.) The First Amended Complaint alleges
that beginning on or around January 20, 2016—before the letter from
HUD—the Prior Owner’s board members began communicating with the other
Defendants regarding a separate offer to purchase the properties. (FAC ¶ 9.) In
June 2016, Plaintiffs learned that the Prior Owner was seeking bids from other
potential buyers, and thereafter commenced the Prior Action against the Prior
Owner. (Id.) Plaintiffs allege that these Defendants wrongfully induced the
Prior Owner to breach the purchase agreement. (FAC ¶ 12.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs possessed or should have possessed knowledge of
Defendants’ actions on August 19, 2016, when the Prior Owner presented a draft
Purchase and Sale Agreement with Defendant Housing Preservation in support of
its Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens. (Defendant’s RJN Exh. 1.) This argument is
not well-taken because Defendants are relying on extrinsic evidence of which
the Court cannot take judicial notice. The Court may not take judicial notice
of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files, nor may the
Court take judicial notice of allegations in affidavits or declarations because
such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require formal
proof. (E.g., Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875,883.) Defendants cannot rely on these records for the truth of
the matters stated therein.
 
Nonexistence of Casa La Merced, L.P. and SPE Merced,
L.L.C.
 
Defendants also demur to the first
cause of action for intentional interference with contract, the fifth cause of
action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and
the sixth cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic advantage
as to Defendants Casa La Merced, L.P. and SPE Merced, L.L.C. for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendants challenge
these causes of action on the basis that these Defendants were not formed until
February 28, 2017 and May 3, 2017, respectively, and could not have interfered
either with the contract or with the prospective economic advantage before
those dates. 
 
1. Intentional Interference with
Contract
 
To prevail on a claim for
intentional interference with a contract, a party must plead and prove (1) a
valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge
of the contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach
of disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption
of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damages. (Pacific Gas
& Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1999) 50 Cal. 3d 1118, 1126.)
 
Defendants contend that Casa La
Merced, L.P. and SPE Merced, L.L.C. could not have interfered with the contract
with the Prior Owner because they did not exist until February 28, 2017 and May
3, 2017, respectively, and the breach was alleged to have occurred on June 7,
2016. (FAC ¶ 9.) A limited partnership is formed when the Certificate of
Limited Partnership is filed with the California Secretary of State. (Corp.
Code § 15902.01.) Likewise, a limited liability company is formed when its
Articles of Organization are filed with the Secretary of State. (Corp Code §
17702.01(d).) Casa La Merced, L.P.’s Certificate of Limited Partnership was
filed on February 28, 2017. (RJN Exh. 3.) SPE Merced, LLC’s Articles of
Organization were filed on May 3, 2017. (RJN Exh. 4.) Thus, Defendants argue,
these entities did not exist at the time of the Prior Owner’s breach. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend
that these entities were part of an ongoing effort to interfere with the
contract because escrow on the Properties remained open until June 17, 2017. (See
FAC ¶ 43.) Plaintiffs’ argument is belied by the plain allegations of the First
Amended Complaint: that the prior owner breached the contract on June 20, 2016.
(FAC ¶ 12.) While a continuing violation theory can sustain claims for
interference with prospective economic advantage, as discussed below,
Plaintiffs offer no authority for the position that an entity whose formation
post-dates a breach of contract can be liable for interference with that
contract. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants Casa La
Merced, L.P. and SPE Merced, L.L.C.’s Demurrer to the first cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations is SUSTAINED. 
 
2. Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage
 
 For intentional interference with economic
advantage, a party must demonstrate “(1) the existence, between the plaintiff
and some third party, of an economic relationship that contains the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
proximately caused by the defendant's action.” (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc.
v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 505, 512.) For negligent
interference with contract, a plaintiff need only demonstrate (1) the economic
relationship with a probability of future economic benefit, (2) the defendant’s
negligent disruption of that relationship, and (3) the resultant harm. (See Venhaus
v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078.) 
 
Defendants argue that, as with the
first cause of action, Casa La Merced, L.P. and SPE Merced, L.L.C. cannot be
liable for claims of interference with economic advantage because they did not
exist at the time of the Prior Owner’s breach of the contract. The Court,
however, does not share Defendants view with respect to these claims. As
Plaintiffs note, the Court found in its November 2, 2023 ruling that there was
a triable issue of fact as to whether there was a relationship with prospective
economic benefit between Plaintiffs on the one hand and the Prior Owner on the
other during the pendency of the Prior Action. (November 2, 2023 Minute Order
p.7.) The Court rejected Defendants’ contention that the prospective economic
benefit ceased to exist with the Prior Owner’s termination of the Purchase and
Sale Agreement on June 20, 2016, because Plaintiffs disputed that the Prior
Owner had the right to terminate the agreement at that time. (Id.) After
so finding, the Court concluded that the relationship was disrupted no later
than June 19, 2017, the date escrow closed on the properties, because that was
the date when it was no longer possible for Plaintiffs to achieve specific
performance of the agreement as sought in the Prior Action. (Id. p.8.) 
 
Although the Court cannot rely on
extrinsic evidence in ruling on a demurrer, the factual allegations presented
in the First Amended Complaint suffice to support a similar conclusion. Plaintiffs
expressly allege that they had an ongoing relationship with the Prior Owner
through their business dealings and the then-pending Prior Action, and a
probability of benefit in the form of their acquisition of the Properties. (FAC
¶¶ 38-39, 41-42.) Plaintiffs further allege that the act of interference
occurred on June 19, 2017, when escrow was closed on the property. (FAC ¶ 45.) These
Defendants indisputably existed on June 19, 2017. Therefore, Defendants have
not demonstrated that the fifth and sixth causes of action are deficient on
this basis.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer
to the fifth and sixth causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
Uncertainty
 
            Defendants
also demur to the first cause of action as uncertain but fail to address this
position in their moving papers. Consequently, Defendants have waived this
argument. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated how the deficiencies in the First Amended
Complaint might be cured by amendment. Moreover, because judicially noticeable
documents establish that the entities whose demurrers were sustained did not
exist at the time the wrongful conduct is alleged to have occurred, the Court
finds that the deficiencies in the first cause of action as to Casa La Merced,
L.P. and SPE Merced, L.L.C. are incurable. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the first cause of action with respect to Defendants Casa
La Merced, L.P. and SPE Merced, L.L.C. only and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: August 7, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later
than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be
copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative
ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By
submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be
present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt
the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in
whole or in part.