 Case Number:  22STCV32478    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 7, 2024                       TRIAL
DATE: September 26, 2024
            
CASE:                         Ken Houang, et al. v. Rochelle H.
Sterling, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV32478            
 
MOTION
TO DEEM THE TRUTH OF MATTERS STATED IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS AS ADMITTED;
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Ken Houang
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Rochelle
H. Sterling, individually and as trustee of the Sterling Family Trust 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/04/22: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action. Plaintiffs, who are and were tenants at a
residential apartment complex, allege that Defendants permitted the premises to
develop extensive uninhabitable conditions and allowed those conditions to
persist in violation of statutes and municipal ordinances. Plaintiffs seek
monetary and injunctive relief.
 
Plaintiff Ken Houang moves for an
order deeming the truth of matters stated in requests for admissions propounded
to Defendant Rochelle Sterling as admitted, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Deeming
Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff Ken Houang moves for an
order deeming the truth of matters stated in requests for admissions propounded
to Defendant Rochelle Sterling as admitted, and for sanctions. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
When a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party
propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).)
“The court shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds
that the party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff served Requests for
Admissions on Defendant Rochelle Sterling via electronic service on February
15, 2024. (Declaration of Gerald S. Ohn ISO Mot. Exh. A.) Defendant served a
response on April 16, 2024, which stated, in its entirety:
 
Defendant BEVERLY HILLS PROPERTIES, LLC
hereby makes a special appearance on behalf of Rochelle Sterling, an
individual, who is not a party to this litigation, in response to pending
Requests for Admission propounded to her in her individual capacity. 
 
To the extent these requests were
propounded to her as an individual, Rochelle Sterling, the individual, is not a
party to this litigation nor does she own the property as an individual.
Defendant Rochelle Sterling as trustee for the Sterling Family Trust has no
personal knowledge of any of the information necessary to respond to these
requests and as such, is unable to respond. These identical requests were also
propounded to Beverly Hills Properties, LLC whose responses are served
concurrently.
 
(Ohn. Decl. Exh. B.) The response was not accompanied by a
verification. Plaintiff contends that he is therefore entitled to an order
deeming the truth of the matters stated in the requests for admissions because
Defendant Sterling failed to provide a valid substantive response to the
Requests. As Plaintiff states, unverified responses to discovery requests are tantamount to no responses
at all. (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 622, 636.) 
 
            Defendant argues that this motion is
improper because she provided objection-only responses. Objection-only
responses do not require a verification to be considered a valid response to
discovery. (Appleton, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at 636.) Here, however, Defendant did
not serve “objection-only” responses; Defendant served responses indicating that
she lacked sufficient information to respond. This is a substantive answer to a
request for admission, notwithstanding that the response does not contain the
required statement that “a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter . . . has
been made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient
to enable the party to admit the matter.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.320(b)(3);
(c).) Consequently, verification of that answer was required under Appleton to
be considered a valid response. Because no verification was provided, Defendant
failed to respond to the requests. Defendant’s contention in her opposition
that she “served substantive responses” on July 24, 2024 is not sufficient to
defeat this motion, because Defendant has not provided those responses to allow
the Court to determine whether they are in substantial compliance, and because
Defendant concedes that verifications were not provided for those supplemental
responses. (Declaration of Taylor A. Wall ISO Opp. ¶ 8.) According to
Plaintiff’s reply papers, no verified supplemental response has been received
as of July 31. (Supplemental Declaration of Gerald S. Ohn ISO Mot. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order deeming the truth of the matters
stated in the Requests for Admissions. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions in the amount of $2,250 only against Defendant for
failing to respond to the Requests for Admissions. 
 
Failure to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process for which
sanctions may be imposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)
Sanctions are mandatory on the party or attorney or both whose failure to serve
a timely response to requests for admission necessitated a motion to deem
requests for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
            Plaintiff
requests $2,250 in sanctions against Defendant alone based on 1.5 hours
actually incurred and 1.5 hours anticipated at $850 per hour. (Ohn Decl. ¶ 6.) However,
the Court is not persuaded that sanctions properly lie against Defendant where
the insufficiency in responses is premised on the absence of a verification.
Rather, the Court considers the failure to provide a verification to be the
responsibility of Defendant’s counsel. As Defendant’s counsel is not identified
as a target of sanctions in the Notice of Motion, the Court is without
authority to impose sanctions on the party it considers responsible for this
failure. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.040.) Plaintiff’s request for sanctions must
therefore be denied. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion
for Order Deeming Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions is
GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  August 7, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.