 Case Number:  24VECV00209    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  W JENNIFER SARI
vs MG CARILLON APARTMENTS LLC, et al.
 
DEMURRER with
motion to strike to plaintiff’s complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        April
29, 2024                         Trial Date:       None
set.
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        24VECV00209
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
MG Carillon Apartments, LLC, MG Carillon Apartments Sea, LLC, and Gleiberman
Properties, INC. dba MG Properties, LLC
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Jennifer Sari   
Meet and Confer:      Yes (Poli Decl. ¶3.)   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability
case. Plaintiff alleges Defendants subjected Plaintiff to illegal and
unacceptable living conditions, including failure to repair a water leak. On
January 16, 2024, Plaintiff
Jennifer Sari filed a complaint against Defendants MG Carillon Apartments, LLC,
MG Carillon Apartments Sea, LLC, and Gleiberman Properties, INC. dba MG
Properties, LLC for 1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; 2) Tortious
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; 3) Negligence; 4) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 5) Private Nuisance; 6) Violation Of Unlawful
Business Practices (Business & Professions Code Section 17200); and 7)
Violation of Los Angeles County Code of Ordinances Section 8.52.130(B). 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants MG Carillon Apartments, LLC,
MG Carillon Apartments Sea, LLC, and Gleiberman Properties, INC. dba MG
Properties, LLC’s Demurrer is OVERRULED; Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants MG Carillon Apartments, LLC,
MG Carillon Apartments Sea, LLC, and Gleiberman Properties, INC. dba MG
Properties, LLC demur to the fourth cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Defendants. Defendants also move to strike
portions of the complaint including Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. 
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress 
 
The elements for a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate
causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.  (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)   
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s Complaint
contains boilerplate and conclusory language as to the intentional tort claim,
and therefore the claim must be disregarded. Specifically, the complaint fails
to allege any intentional wrongdoing or wrongdoing that would amount to extreme
or outrageous conduct. The complaint alleges Defendants knowingly and
intentionally failed to provide licensed professionals to inspect, address, and
repair the subject property after multiple water intrusion events in order to
save money, increase their cash flow and intimidate Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶42.)
Such conduct was outrageous and beyond all boundaries of decency and Defendants
knew failing to repair and maintain the subject property would result in
Plaintiff suffering emotional distress. (Compl. ¶42.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
information and statements made by Plaintiff in her Complaint provides the
entirety of the details known by Plaintiff at this stage in the litigation. Plaintiff
contends her complaint sufficiently sets forth particular and specific
allegations that Defendants were aware of the probable consequences of their
failure to abate the substandard conditions of the subject property, while
willfully and deliberately failing to avoid those consequences. Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendants intentionally failed to take adequate measures
to address the water intrusion issues in an attempt to save money, increase
their cash flow, intimidate Plaintiff into not complaining, and/or to cause Plaintiff
to abandon the Subject Property. 
 
For the purposes of a demurrer, the
court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Whether a landlord's knowing,
intentional and willful failure to correct defective conditions of the premises
constitutes extreme and outrageous conduct for purposes of IIED “presents a
factual question.” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903,
922.) As noted by Plaintiff, Plaintiff alleges Defendants intentionally failed
to abate substandard conditions in the property in order to save money,
increase their cash flow, and so on. A jury could find this conduct extreme and
outrageous as it led to Plaintiff’s personal items being damaged and causing
her to slip and fall during a large flooding on the property. The complaint
further alleges Plaintiff’s complaints were repeatedly and intentionally
ignored. (See Stoiber, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at p. 921 holding
“[b]ehavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation
or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows
the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.”)  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants move to strike portions of
the complaint on the grounds (1) the punitive damage allegations of the
Complaint are unsupported by a factual showing of malice, oppression or fraud;
and (2) Plaintiff, otherwise, has failed to set forth facts to support a claim
for punitive damages against this particular Defendant. 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(CCP § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has
irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
California Civil Code section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code §
3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Id. § 3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to defendant
with the intention on the part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)
 
Defendants argue there are no facts
pled whatsoever against Defendants that demonstrates they allegedly acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice towards Plaintiff during the period in which
complaints were made. In fact, Plaintiff concedes that Defendants did make
repairs when complaints were made, although alleging that they were incomplete
repairs. Further, there is no specificity whatsoever with respect to such
alleged conduct. There is no claim of what notice of dangerous conditions was
given to Defendants or that one even existed. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues their complaint
sets forth particular and specific allegations that Defendants were aware of
the probable consequences of their failure to abate the substandard conditions
of the subject property, while willfully and deliberately failing to avoid
those consequences. Specifically, the Defendants’ repeatedly failed to address
the significant and dangerous water intrusion issues at the subject property, notwithstanding
Plaintiff’s pleas for help as to the same. Plaintiff contends this is
sufficient for a claim of punitive damages. (See Penner v. Falk (1984)
153 Cal. App. 3d 858, 867 holding the motion to strike punitive damages was
improperly granted where the pleadings set out existing physical conditions of
the premises which portend danger for the tenants as well as respondents knew
of those conditions for up to two years, had power to make changes, but failed
to take corrective and curative measures.) 
 
The court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a motion to strike. As analyzed above, there are
sufficient allegations to support an IIED claim.  Notably, punitive damages are recoverable for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. (See Heller v. Pillsbury
Madison & Sutro (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1390.) The complaint
alleges Defendant knew failing to repair and maintain the property would result
in Plaintiff’s extreme emotional distress and despite this, intentionally
failed to in order to save money and intimidate Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is
DENIED. 