  Case Number:  22VECV01383    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  W DOMINIQUE
TOLLIVER v. JV ORION, LLC, et al.
 
pLAINTIFF DOMINQUE TOLLIVER’S
MOTION for attorney fees
 
Date of Hearing:        April
29, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01383
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Dominque Tolliver 

Responding Party:     Defendants JV Orion, LLC and JV West Property
Management, Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
Dominque Tolliver filed a complaint against Defendants JV Orion, LLC and JV West Property
Management, Inc. for (1) Income Source Discrimination in Violation of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act; (2) Violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; (3)
Refusal to Accept Section 8 Voucher under the Los Angeles Municipal Code; (4) Unfair Business Practices; and (5) Declaratory and Injunctive Relief. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
unlawfully discriminated against Plaintiff in her search for housing. Plaintiff
asserts that Defendants refused to accept her Section 8 housing voucher, and thus
she was unable to rent a unit at Defendant’s apartment complex. As a result of
such alleged conduct, Plaintiff contends she suffered severe emotional
distress, including mental anguish, inconvenience, annoyance, sleeplessness,
loss of enjoyment of life, stress, worry, anxiety, shame, tension headaches,
and weight gain. In addition, Plaintiff was forced to leave her employment due
to the overwhelming stress caused by Defendants’ alleged discrimination.
 
On February 2, 2024, the court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney Fees is GRANTED,
in part. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant
submits evidentiary objections in the declarations submitted in support of the
motion for attorney fees. 
 
Declaration
of Tobener – Objection
nos. 1 – 7 are overruled. 
Declaration
of Woo – Objection
nos. 1 – 7 are overruled. 
Declaration
of Hooshmand – Objection
nos. 1 – 7 are overruled. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff Dominque Tolliver moves this
court for an order awarding attorney fees to Plaintiff as prevailing party
against Defendants JV Orion, LLC and JV West Property Management, Inc. on
Plaintiff’s causes of action for discrimination in violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act, discrimination in violation of Los Angeles
Municipal Code article 5.6.1, violation of the Unruh Act, and unfair business
practices. 
 
A prevailing party is entitled to
recover its attorneys’ fees when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (See
CCP § 1033.5(a)(10); Cal. Civ. Code § 1717(a).) The fee setting inquiry in
California ordinarily begins with the “lodestar” method, i.e., the number of
hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. A
computation of time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is
fundamental to a determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee award. The
lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors
specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the
legal services provided. (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25,
49.)  Such an approach anchors the trial court’s analysis to an objective
determination of the value of the attorney’s services, ensuring that the amount
awarded is not arbitrary. (Id. at 48, n.23.) After the trial court has
performed the lodestar calculations, it shall consider whether the total award
so calculated under all of the circumstances of the case is more than a
reasonable amount and, if so, shall reduce the section 1717 award so that it is
a reasonable figure.  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th
1084, 1095-96.) 
 
The factors considered in determining
the modification of the lodestar include the nature and difficulty of the
litigation, the amount of money involved, the skill required and employed to
handle the case, the attention given, the success or failure, and other
circumstances in the case. (EnPalm, LLC v. Teitler Family Trust
(2008) 162 Cal. App. 4th 770, 774 (emphasis in original).) A negative modifier
was appropriate when duplicative work had been performed. (Thayer v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 819.) 
 
The parties do not dispute Plaintiff is
entitled to attorney fees as the prevailing party as Los Angeles Municipal
Code, the Fair Employment and Housing Act, and the Unruh Civil Rights Act all
contain fee provisions. (Govt. Code § 12989.2; Civ. Code § 52; L.A. Muni. Code
§ 45.68.) Moreover, this court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment
on February 2, 2024. The parties dispute whether the amount is reasonable,
including the hours expended and the 1.5 multiplier. Plaintiff requests the court
to award her fees of $144,658.13 with a multiplier of 1.5 for a total of
$216,987.20. 
 
Plaintiff contends the court should
apply the 1.5 multiplier because Tobener Ravenscroft LLP enforced newly
codified anti-discrimination laws that both the State and local legislature
have deemed important. Moreover, Tobener Ravenscroft LLP took this case on
contingency and in litigating the case, Tobener Ravenscroft LLP brought its
skill as a dedicated tenant rights firm. The firm has litigated more than 2,000
tenant cases over twenty years.  In light
of the novelty of the legal issues, the social importance of the rights
enforced, and the firm’s experience in tenant law, Plaintiff states it is
entitled to a 1.5 multiplier. 
 
Plaintiff further contends Tobener
Ravenscroft LLP reasonably billed 580 hours in litigation this case as it was
forced to aggressively litigate this case for a year and a half. Throughout the
course of this case, Plaintiff conducted relevant discovery as to liability and
damages arising out of the complaint, brought and opposed motions, and began
preparing for a multi-day jury trial. Lastly, Tobener Ravenscroft LLP contends
the billing rates are on the low side for attorneys working in the
landlord-tenant field of law in the Bay Area. These rates are reasonable, and
still on the low side, given the specialized experience of Plaintiffs’
attorneys in tenants’ rights cases. 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue an
award of $4,000 for statutory penalties, with a complete abandonment of all
claims for personal damages, establishes a limited success, and does not
warrant an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $216,987.20. Defendants
also argue the charges are inflated. Specifically, Plaintiff claims to have
devoted 580 hours litigating this case, including 387.4 hours of attorney time and
188.4 hours of paralegal time. However, only two depositions were conducted in
the entire case, one of which was the Defendant that lasted 2 hours and 17
minutes. Moreover, Plaintiff produced a total of 171 pages of documents, and
Defendant produced 6 pages and only two witnesses were identified in the entire
case. (See McGinnis v. Kentucky Fried Chicken of California (9th Cir.
1994) 51 F.3d 805, 810 holding “[l]awyers might reasonably spend $148,000 worth
of time to win $234,000. But no reasonable person would pay lawyers $148,000 to
win $34,000.”) Defendants also point to several billing entries. For example,
Defendants note Plaintiff’s counsel, Adrian Slipski’s 15 hours for preparation
of Ms. Flamenco’s deposition was unreasonable given the total deposition was
for 2.5 hours and only six pages of responsive documents produced by Plaintiff
to review.  Or that Plaintiff’s counsel
billed 32.2 hours to prepare the Reply Brief in support of their motion for
summary judgment when it consisted of six pages. 
 
Lastly, Defendants argue a downward
multiplier is warranted as none of the factors warrants a positive multiplier.
Defendants contend Plaintiff’s success was limited since she abandoned all of
her personal injury claims and obtained only a small fraction of the relief she
sought. Moreover, the action did not present anything novel or difficult as it
was limited to a single incident of an email to Plaintiff. 
 
First, the court finds the 1.5
multiplier is not warranted. “The purpose of a fee enhancement is not to reward
attorneys for litigating certain kinds of cases, but to fix a reasonable fee in
a particular action.” (Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1128, 1171–1172.) Each statute cited by Plaintiff as a means for
recovering attorney fees authorizes an award of reasonable attorney
fees. Although the case was taken under contingency and the court agrees
Plaintiff’s counsel are experienced attorneys, the difficulty of the case, the
customary fee for similar work, and the legal skill needed to render services
does not justify a 1.5 multiplier. The action may involve newly enacted
statutes, but the statutes themselves do not present difficult issues considering
the facts in this case. SB 329 amended government codes section 12927 and 12955
to prevent owners from harassing or discriminating against prospective
applicants due to source of income and included in their definition of discrimination refusal to permit reasonable
accommodations for a disabled person, refusal for negotiation and refusal that
a housing accommodation is available when in fact is vacant. Los Angeles
Municipal Code section 45.67 explicitly provides it is unlawful for any person
offering rent to make any statement that indicates limitation based upon a
person’s source of income. 
 
Second, the court finds that although
the hourly rates are reasonable, some of the hours expended are not. Counsel
Tobener was primarily responsible for managing this case and billed 64.9 hours
at an hourly rate of $650 up through Judgment. (Tobener Decl. ¶19.) Counsel
Slipski was tasked with moving the case forward on a day-to-day basis, handling
client contact, writing and editing the pleadings, propounding written
discovery, responding to Defendants’ written
discovery requests, writing and researching motions, and taking and defending
depositions in the case and billed 250.2 hours at $425 per hour. (Tobener Decl.
¶20.) Attorney Kellon McGuire assisted in the handling of Plaintiff’s
opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Reclassify as well as prepared for and
attended the hearing on the motion, billing 42.5 hours at counsel’s hourly rate
of $425. (Tobener Decl. ¶21.) As for the three paralegals who assisted in this
case, Ricardo Larrea handled the case from inception through July 2023, billing
85.1 hours at $225 per hour; Matt Miller then took over the case and handled it
until the present time, billing 94.8 hours between July 2023 and February 2024
at a rate of $225 per hour; and Emily Mather provided additional assistance in
May 2023, billing 7.6 hours at an hourly rate of $225. (Tobener Decl. ¶22.) 
 
Overall, counsel spent 545.1 hours on
the litigation. Some of the time spent is simply unreasonable.  For example, the expenditure by attorney
Slipski of 15 hours preparing for Ms. Flamenco’s 2.5 hour deposition is
excessive, as is the 32 hours to prepare a few page reply brief.   The court finds the reasonable amount to
prepare for the deposition to be 5 hours and the reasonable amount of time to
prepare the reply to be no more than 10 hours, which at these hourly rates  would mean a reduction of the lodestar by $4250
and $9350, respectively.   Mr. Slipski’s
expenditure of nearly 10 hours on the opposition to the motion to reclassify
also is excessive, given the brevity of the opposition and the very basic law
and facts presented, warranting a further reduction of 3 hours or $1275.  The court further agrees with defendant that
spending 75 hours to prepare the motion for summary judgment, in a field in
which the plaintiff’s counsel are experts, is also excessive.  There was also needless duplication of work
by the various attorneys and paralegals working on the case, in particular at
the summary judgment stage.  The court
finds that Mr. Skipksi’s hours should be further reduced by 20 hours to reflect
over billing and redundant billing in relation to the motion for summary
judgment, or $8500.   
 
The court denies Defendant’s request to
apply a negative multiplier as the court has reduced the lodestar figure to
reflect reasonable hours and the plaintiff’s counsel exercised considerable
billing judgment in removing other excessive hours from the initial
amount.   
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
attorney fees is GRANTED, in the reduced amount of $123,083.13.  
 
Memorandum of Costs
 
Plaintiff seeks $2,957.60 in costs for $958.59
in filing and motion fees; $150.00 in jury fees; $983.75 in deposition fees; $237.50
in service of process fees; and $627.76 in fees for electronic filing service. 
 
The memorandum of costs is granted. 