 Case Number:  24TRCV02079    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                  Tuesday, November 12, 2024
Department B                                                                                                               Calendar No. 6
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Balaciano Group v. Jun Watanabe, et al. 
            24TRCV02079
1.      Jun Watanabe’s Motion to Set Aside the Default
Judgment and to Quash the Writ of Possession   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Jun Watanabe’s Motion to Set Aside
the Default Judgment and to Quash the Writ of Possession is denied. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June
21, 2024. The action is a residential UD concerning real property located at
5901 Center Dr. Apt 541-2 Los Angeles, CA 90045. On July 29, 2024, the matter
proceeded via a non-jury trial. Defendant did not appear at trial. Judgment was
entered in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant. 
 
Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment
 
            CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant
part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            CCP § 473.5(a) states, in relevant
part: “When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party
in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered
against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action.  The notice of motion shall be
served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her;
or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered.” 
 
            CCP § 473.5(b) states: “A notice of
motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by
subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” The phrase
“actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party litigant” and does not
include constructive or imputed notice to the client. Tunis v. Barrow
(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077.
 
            “After six months from entry of
default, a trial court may still vacate a default on equitable grounds even if
statutory relief is unavailable.  . . .
One ground for equitable relief is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied
when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a
hearing on the merits. Extrinsic mistake is found when [among other things] ...
a mistake led a court to do what it never intended[.] When a default judgment has
been obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            CCP § 473(d) empowers the Court to
set aside any judgment that is void as a matter of law, e.g., lack of subject
matter jurisdiction; lack of personal jurisdiction; lack of proper service of
the summons and complaint; or the judgment violated due process rights.  See
Dhawan v. Biring (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 963, 973-74; See also Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544; See also Heidary v. Yadollahi (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-64.  “It is well
settled that a judgment or order which is void on its face, and which requires
only an inspection of the judgment roll or record to show its invalidity, may
be set aside on motion, at any time after its entry, by the court which
rendered the judgment or made the order.” 
Hiroko Kawakita Hayashi v. Lorenz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 848, 851.  
 
            “Mistake is not a ground for relief
under section 473, subdivision (b), when the court finds that the ‘mistake’ is
simply the result of professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law,
or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law.  Further, the term surprise, as used in
section 473, refers to some condition or situation in which a party is
unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his
own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.  Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, to
warrant relief under section 473 a litigant's neglect must have been such as
might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same
circumstances. The inadvertence contemplated by the statute does not mean mere
inadvertence in the abstract. If it is wholly inexcusable it does not justify
relief.  It is the duty of every party
desiring to resist an action or to participate in a judicial proceeding to take
timely and adequate steps to retain counsel or to act in his own person to
avoid an undesirable judgment. Unless in arranging for his defense he shows
that he has exercised such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence
usually bestows upon important business his motion for relief under section 473
will be denied.  Courts neither act as
guardians for incompetent parties nor for those who are grossly careless of
their own affairs.  The only occasion for
the application of section 473 is where a party is unexpectedly placed in a
situation to his injury without fault or negligence of his own and against
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded.” Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Defendant moves to set aside the
judgment and writ of possession. Defendant states that she “missed her trial
date due to her inadvertence, mistake and excusable neglect, and because the
notice on which the complaint is based is defective[.]”  (Notice of Motion, page 1, lines 22-24.)
 
            Here, the judgment is not void on
its face. A three-day notice pursuant to CCP § 1161(2) may only demand back
rent accrued within one year prior to its service. A three-day notice made
pursuant to CCP § 1161(2) for nonpayment of rent which demands rent accruing
more than one year prior to the service is invalid and will not support an
unlawful detainer cause of action. Bevill v. Zoura (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th
694, 697-98. Here, the three-day notice was served on June 10, 2024, and
demanded back rent from September 1, 2022 through May 31, 2024. 
 
            However, pursuant to the COVID-19
Tenant Relief Act, this one-year limitations period is tolled during any period
of time that a landlord is prohibited by local authorities protecting tenants
from eviction from serving any notice demanding back rental payments pursuant
to CCP § 1161(2).  CCP § 1179.05(c)(d). 
 
            Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
49.99.2 states, in relevant part:
 
“A.   Until January 31, 2023, no Owner
shall endeavor to evict or evict a residential tenant for non-payment of rent
if the tenant is unable to pay rent due to circumstances related to the
COVID-19 pandemic. These circumstances include loss of income due to a COVID-19
related workplace closure, child care expenditures due to school closures,
health-care expenses related to being ill with COVID-19 or caring for a member
of the tenant’s household or family who is ill with COVID-19, or reasonable
expenditures that stem from government-ordered emergency measures.
 Rental arrears accumulated between March 1,
2020, and September 30, 2021, under this subsection must be paid by August 1,
2023. Rental arrears accumulated between October 1, 2021, and January 31, 2023,
under this subsection must be paid by February 1, 2024. Unless the COVID-19
Tenant Relief Act, Code of Civil Procedure Section 1179.01, et seq., applies,
an Owner may bring an action to recover possession of residential rental
property following the tenant’s default in the payment of rent according to
these timeframes.”
 
Thus, the three-day notice, which was served on June
10, 2024, after February 1, 2024, properly included amounts due which could not
be collected until after that date pursuant to L.A.M.C. 49.99.2. Therefore, the
three-day notice was not defective, and the request to set aside the judgment
pursuant to CCP § 473(d) is denied.
 
As to the request to set aside the judgment pursuant
to CCP § 473(b), the request is also denied. Defendant fails to establish that
the judgment was entered due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. The motion is supported only by the self-serving declaration of
Defendant stating that Defendant did not receive notice of the trial date. This
self-serving statement is controverted with the Notice of Unlawful Detainer
Trial mailed to Defendant by the Court on July 10, 2024. In addition, Plaintiff
submitted evidence of numerous documents served upon Defendant which would have
provided notice of the upcoming trial date and/or, at a minimum, alert a
reasonably prudent person to demonstrate diligence in obtaining information
regarding the date of the trial.  (Decl.,
Dennis Block, Ex. 2-5.)  Thus, the weight
of the evidence demonstrates inexcusable neglect.  Any surprise that resulted from the trial date
occurring without an appearance by Defendant occurred due to Defendant’s own
negligence.
 
Thus, Defendant’s Motion to Vacate Default and to
Quash the Writ of Possession is denied. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  
 
            