  Case Number:  22TRCV00944    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka        Tuesday, November 12, 2024
Department M       Calendar No. 5   

 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Christopher
Nowlin, et al. v. Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc., et al.    
22TRCV00944
1.     
Coastline Real
Estate Advisors, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Second Amended Complaint
 

TENTATIVE RULING

Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc.’s Motion to
Strike is denied. 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on August 12, 2022, and
the Second Amended Complaint on January 16, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. Plaintiffs were tenants at the property that was owned and
managed by the Defendant. The property suffered from mold and other substandard
conditions that were not repaired. Plaintiffs were harassed and constructively
evicted. In the FAC, Plaintiffs alleged the following causes of action: 1.
Nuisance; 2. Violation of Civil Code 1940.2; 3. Breach of Contract; 4. Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 5. Negligence; 6. Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 7. Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Habitability; 8. Intentional Misrepresentation. In the SAC, Plaintiffs removed
the sixth cause of action. The SAC no longer includes a cause of action named
Intentional Misrepresentation but instead states a cause of action named “False
Promise.”
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant did not file a meet and confer declaration
in sufficient compliance with CCP § 435.5. While generally, the Court would
have continued the matter and required the moving party to file the meet and
confer declaration, in consideration of judicial economy and efficiency and
also considering that emails between the parties were attached (albeit without
a declaration to authenticate the emails), the Court will proceed to rule on
the merits of the motion. The Court further notes that the opposition did not
object based on any failure to file the meet and confer declaration and/or any
perceived deficiency regarding the meet and confer process.
 
Motion to
Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.

 
Defendant moves to strike the following - the entire
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on the grounds that it was filed untimely, or,
alternatively, Defendant moves to strike portions of the SAC to which it
contends allegations were added or changed without first obtaining leave to
amend.
 
As to the request to strike the entire SAC based on
untimely filing, the request is denied. The Court may permit the late filing of
an amended pleading and deny a motion to strike when the late filing does not
affect the substantial rights of the parties. CCP § 475; Harlan v Department
of Transp. (2005) 132 CA4th 868, 872–74. Here, the filing of the SAC, which
was late by three calendar days and by one Court day, did not affect the
substantial rights of any of the parties.
 
As to the request to strike portions of the SAC, the
motion is denied. 
 
Generally, upon the sustaining of the demurrer, the
scope of leave to amend is to amend the existing causes of action and not to
add new causes of action.  See People
ex rel. Dept. of Pub. Wks. v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785.  Addition of a new cause of action may be
proper, however, when it “directly responds to the court's reason for
sustaining the earlier demurrer.”  Patrick
v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015. 
 
As to the request to strike items 1-6, 8, and 9, the
motion is denied. The minor amendments merely involved correcting clerical
errors and/or slightly clarifying factual matters that did not alter the tenor
of the Plaintiffs’ claims and/or allegations in any material way. In addition, the
Court notes that paragraph 74 of the SAC incorporates the previous allegations
into the False Promise cause of action thus providing a colorable argument that
the scope of leave to amend may have included allowing for these minor
alterations. No new cause of action was added by these changes. 
 
As to the request to strike items 7 and 10, the motion
is denied. The amended allegations directly responded to the Court’s prior
ruling striking the prayer and allegations of attorneys’ fees with leave to
amend to plead a statutory or contractual basis for such fees.
 
As to the request to strike the entirety of the
seventh cause of action, the motion to strike is denied. 
 
The Court is not concerned at all that the name of the
cause of action was changed from “Intentional Misrepresentation” to “False
Promise.” False Promise is a species of fraud. “It has long been established
that in ruling on a demurrer, the trial court is obligated to look past the
form of a pleading to its substance. Erroneous or confusing labels attached by
the inept pleader are to be ignored if the complaint pleads facts which would
entitle the plaintiff to relief. It is not what a paper is named, but what it
is that fixes its character.” Saunders v. Cariss (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d
905, 908 (internal citations and quotations omitted). Thus, this is not a “new”
cause of action that would be subject to the limitations set forth under the
authority of People ex rel. Dept. of Pub. Wks. v. Clausen (1967) 248
Cal.App.2d 770, 785 and Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
995, 1015. 
 
In the Court’s ruling to Defendant’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings to the FAC, the Court stated the following as the
reason why the Intentional Misrepresentation cause of action failed to state
sufficient facts: “In the opposition, Plaintiffs contend that they have alleged
a representation, or representations made by Jimmy Ordaz, a property manager.
However, Plaintiffs have not alleged specific facts as to whom the
representations were made, and when, where, and by what means the
representations were made.” (Court’s Minute Order, dated July 15, 2024.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs altered the cause of
action in a significant manner that was not within the scope of leave to amend.
In the FAC, the manner in which Defendant intended to deceive and the manner in
which Plaintiffs relied upon the alleged representation were stated as follows:
“Defendant intended for Plaintiffs to rely on their false representations in
order to financially benefit themselves and to induce Plaintiffs into moving
out of the Unit so they could renovate it and rent it out for a higher rental
amount. Plaintiffs did not know the representations
were false when Defendant made them. This served Defendant’s financial
interests and benefitted Defendant to Plaintiffs’ detriment. Plaintiffs
justifiably relied on Defendant’s representations and suffered damages as a
result.” (FAC, ¶ 82.) 
 
With the SAC, Plaintiffs now allege: “Defendant made
these false representations and promises with the intent to deceive Plaintiffs,
to induce Plaintiffs to continue residing in the Unit, and to avoid making
necessary repairs and compensating Plaintiffs for the damages incurred.
Plaintiffs, unaware of the falsity of Defendant's representations, reasonably
and justifiably relied on the representations made by Defendant. Plaintiffs
continued to live in the Unit, submitted multiple repair requests, and refrained
from taking further action based on Defendant’s promises.” (SAC, ¶¶ 78-79.)
 
The FAC stated that Defendant intended to deceive
Plaintiffs so that they would move out of the unit. The SAC now states that
Defendant intended to deceive Plaintiffs so that they would continue residing
in the unit. Defendant argues that this newly altered allegation was not within
the scope of leave to amend. 
 
However, as noted above, the False Promise cause of
action is not a new cause of action. False Promise is a species of fraud and
the FAC included a cause of action for Intentional Misrepresentation to which
leave to amend was provided. While it is true that the Court’s ruling made no
mention of the elements of intent to deceive and justifiable reliance, which
are the elements that are the focus of the changed allegations, the “scope” of
leave to amend was to amend the cause of action. The ruling does not limit the
manner in which Plaintiffs may amend that particular cause of action despite
the fact that the amendment in question may not have been the particular reason
why the motion for judgment on the pleadings was previously granted with leave
to amend. 
 
Thus, the motion to strike the seventh cause of action
is denied. 
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve an Answer
within 10 days of this date.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.