  Case Number:  20SMCV00786    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Pacific Horizon
Holdings, LLC v. Meehan et al., Case No. 20SMCV00786
Hearing Date
November 16, 2023 
Meehan Defendants’
Motion to Strike Memorandum of Costs
 
On January 5, 2023 the
court granted the Meehan defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to
plaintiff Pacific Horizon Holdings’ causes of action for breach of CC&Rs
and nuisance. The court denied summary judgment as to declaratory relief. After
court trial, the court ruled Pacific Horizon was entitled to an easement for
egress and ingress. The final judgment issued on September 20, 2023. Pacific
Horizon filed a memorandum of Costs on October 4, 2023. The Meehans move to
strike, arguing Pacific Horizon is not the prevailing party.
Under Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. §1032, if any party recovers other than monetary relief, the “prevailing
party” shall be determined by the court, which has discretion to allow costs or
not. When the court exercises its discretion in this manner, costs may be
apportioned between the parties on the same or adverse sides. Id.
Pacific Horizon did not
prevail on the first two causes of action, dismissed pursuant to a motion for
summary judgment, but prevail on the declaratory relief claim. Per the second
amended complaint, Pacific Horizon sought an order that it has “an express
right to use and enjoy the private roads within the project, including Horizon
Way[.]” The court affirmed Pacific Horizon’s rights to use Horizon Way for
ingress and egress. Since the relief Pacific Horizon obtained was non-monetary,
the court has discretion under §1032 regarding costs. 
The memorandum of costs
does attempt to distinguish costs incurred in connection with the first two
causes of action, where the Meehans prevailed, and costs incurred pursuing
declaratory relief, on which Pacific Horizon prevailed. Separating the costs is
difficult, if not impossible, as all three claims were intertwined, sharing
common factual and legal issues. 
It seems inequitable to
award costs to Pacific Horizon, which prevailed on one cause of action, and
against the Meehans, who prevailed on two causes of action. Pursuant to its discretion
under §1032, the Meehans’ motion to strike the cost bill is GRANTED. 