  Case Number:  23STCV13469    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  76 Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
has defamed and harassed Plaintiffs after they moved in as tenant on the property
which neighbors Defendant’s.
Defendant Joan Elise Slater brings
an anti-SLAPP special motion to strike as to the Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Joan Elise Slater’s anti-SLAPP
special motion to strike is DENIED as to the first and second causes of action
in the Complaint.
Defendant is ordered to answer
the Complaint within 10 days.
ANALYSIS
Anti-SLAPP Special
Motion To Strike
Request For
Judicial Notice
            Plaintiffs request that the Court take
judicial notice of the following: (1) Accusation by Department of Real Estate,
State of California Discussion; (2) Order Accepting Voluntary Surrender of Real Estate License by California Bureau of Real
Estate. Requests Nos. 1 and 2 are DENIED.
The Court need only take judicial notice of
relevant materials. (Mangini v.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063, overruled in part on
other grounds noted in In re Tobacco Cases II (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1257, 1276.)
The Court may deny a request for judicial notice of material unnecessary to its
decision. (Rivera v. First DataBank, Inc. (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 709, 713.) 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
No. 1: SUSTAINED. Hearsay, not subject to any exception.
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
No. 1: SUSTAINED. Lack of foundation.
No. 2: SUSTAINED. Hearsay.
No. 3: SUSTAINED. Hearsay.
No. 4: SUSTAINED. Lack of foundation.
No. 5: SUSTAINED. Hearsay.
No. 6: SUSTAINED. Hearsay.
No. 7: SUSTAINED. Hearsay—forwarded by Leasing Agent.
No. 8: OVERRULED. Goes to weight.
No. 9: OVERRULED. Goes to weight.
No. 10: OVERRULED. Goes to weight.
Discussion
Defendant Joan Elise Slater brings
an anti-SLAPP special motion to strike as to the Complaint.
In ruling on a defendant’s special
motion to strike, the trial court uses a “summary-judgment-like procedure at an
early stage of the litigation.” (Varian Medical
Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.)  This is a two-step process.  First, the defendant must show that the act
or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken “in furtherance of the
[defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16(b)(1).) Second, if the defendant carries that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b)(3).)  The defendant
has the burden on the first issue, and the plaintiff on the second. (Kajima Engineering & Construction, Inc.
v. City of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 921, 928; Rivero v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
AFL-CIO (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 913, 919.) In making both determinations the
trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §425.16(b)(2); Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)
 
The Defendant’s act underlying the
cause of action must itself have been in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech. (City of Cotati v. Cashman
(2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69, 76-78.)  The
defendant’s acts are protected activity – that is, made in furtherance of protected
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue – if they fit into
one of the following categories under the section 425.16, subdivision (e)
categories: (1) oral or written statements made before a legislative,
executive, judicial or any other official proceeding; (2) oral or written
statements made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law; (3) written or oral statements made in a place open to the public or in
a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest; and (4) any
other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional rights of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(e).)
 
            If such a
showing is made, the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show a probability of
prevailing on the claim.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 425.16(b)(1).)  To establish a
probability of prevailing on the merits, the Plaintiff must demonstrate that
the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima
facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
submitted by the plaintiff is credited. (Matson
v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548.) In making this
assessment it is the court’s responsibility to accept as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff. (HMS Capital,
Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 204, 212.) The
Complaint needs only to establish that his or her claim has minimal merit (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th
82, 89) to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. (Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728,
738.)
“For purposes of this inquiry, ‘the
trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not
weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence,
it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence
supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary
support for the claim.’ (Citation omitted.)” (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)
Assertions that are “merely
incidental” or “collateral” are not subject to section 425.16. (Citations omitted].) Allegations
of protected activity that merely provide context, without supporting a
claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.
(Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, 394 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            A.        First Cause of Action (Intentional Interference
With Contractual Relations); Second Cause of Action (Defamation).
            Defendant
argues that her speech concerns petition to the government—the Los Angeles Fire
Department—and thus concerns the public interest or a public issue due to the
fire risk in an area prone to catastrophic wildfires.
            Defendant
is mistaken. The Complaint does not allege that Defendant made a report to the LAFD
and Plaintiffs thereby suffered some injury due to that LAFD report. Nor does Defendant
cite any statement in connection with a matter of public interest or a public
issue, as Defendant is just alleged to have been complaining to an individual
via text and directing harassing messages toward Plaintiffs.
            Here, the
Complaint is based on the following statements attributed to Defendant:
14. Slater has told neighbors and the
Landlords that Ms. Martinucci and Mr. Garcia must be part of a Mexican drug
cartel because they drive jeeps like those used by the Mexican drug cartels. .
. . 
 
15. On one occasion, Slater texted one
of the Landlords (Teresa Marco) stating, in 
pertinent part, as follows, with
respect to the Property and Ms. Martinucci: 
 
“Are you doing anything pro-active
about your tenants???...they need a 3 day notice…I had an ex cia agent check
things out and he also believes something suspicious is going on! Are there men
living at the house a few days ago 
at 2:30 in the morning, 2 drunk men in
the back yard?” 
 
16. On another occasion, Slater texted
Landlord Teresa Marco stating, in pertinent part: 
 
“Did some investigating, your tenant is
really Robert Garcia, he lived at 2900 Piedmont, Glendale…It took the last landlord
4 years to evict him! Just a heads up! This guy is really something. He called
me a whore when I ask him not to park in front on my house. Threatening Audry
Brooks, and god knows what he said to the ministers wife. He was yelling at
her, then it was in Spanish. He is very 
aggressive!!!! 
 
17. On yet another occasion, Slater
texted Landlord Teresa Marco stating: 
 
 “Omg! I know they are going to be a real
problem !...Cars in front yard, and all the trash, oil drums and tires and gas cans!
I am going to fire dept with cookies and see if they will right (sic) them up!
Have Stephanie call me, I maybe able to 
give her some guidance on the matter!
This property is a fire potential!” 
 
18. Slater also told a neighbor that
she was contacting “inside contacts” at the CIA and FBI and at the City and
that she will “get this taken care of.” She has indicated that she has
relatives on the police force who she says she will force Plaintiffs to leave
the Property. 
 
19. On another occasion, Slater taped
signs to 4 cars belonging to Ms. Martinucci and Mr. Garcia, and one car
belonging to a housekeeper for the Property, causing damage to the cars, in an attempt
to prevent Plaintiffs from parking on the street in front of Slater’s house.
The signs read, in part: 
 
“To: The New Tenants at 10081 McBroom
St. Please remove ALL OF YOUR CARS, TRUCKS, TRAILERS PARKED ON STREET!” 
 
20. Slater also placed cones and police
tape on the street in front of her house to prevent Plaintiffs from parking
there. When the cones and tape were removed, Slater texted Landlord Teresa Marco
stating: 
 
“I put traffic cones out in front of my
house and your tenant just moved them. They are a BIG problem in our neighborhood!!!!

 
21. Slater has falsely told the
Landlords and neighbors that Ms. Martinucci and Mr. Garcia had 15 Mexican men
hanging around the Property.  
 
22. As a result of the concerted
slanderous and harassing actions of Slater, Ms. Brown texted Ms. Martinucci,
stating that she was giving Ms. Martinucci a three day notice.
 
     (1AC, ¶¶ 14 – 22.)
            Here, the
Complaint alleges only that Defendant was ranting and raving in the course of a
personal vendetta against Plaintiffs. There is no allegation that Defendant actually
made a report to the fire department or a law enforcement agency, and that
Plaintiff suffered injury as a result of that report (which would be
protected under the anti-SLAPP statute—Comstock v.
Aber (2012) 212 Cal. App.
4th 931, 941-42.) The alleged statements by Defendant made to Plaintiffs’
landlord and neighbors regarding a fire hazard, background investigations, contacting
the CIA, FBI and the City are incidental and merely provide context[1]
to the gist of Plaintiffs’ allegations—that Defendant was trying to influence
Plaintiffs’ landlord to evict them and neighbors to ostracize (or harass) them.
Nothing in Defendant’s alleged statements contributed to a larger public debate
about wildfires in the area, nor to drug cartels, loitering or parking on the streets.
The most
commonly articulated definitions of “statements made in connection with a
public issue” focus on whether (1) the subject of the statement or activity
precipitating the claim was a person or entity in the public eye; (2) the
statement or activity precipitating the claim involved conduct that could
affect large numbers of people beyond the direct participants; and (3) whether
the statement or activity precipitating the claim involved a topic of
widespread public interest. (Citations omitted.) As to the latter, it is not
enough that the statement refer to a subject of widespread public interest;
the statement must in some manner itself contribute to the public debate.
(Du Charme v. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 107 [1 Cal. Rptr. 3d 501] (Du Charme) [report that an employee was
removed for financial mismanagement was informational, but not connected to any
discussion, debate or controversy]; Consumer Justice Center v. Trimedica
International, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 595, 601 [132 Cal. Rptr. 2d 191]
[advertisements about a pill offering a natural alternative to breast implants
are not about the general topic of herbal supplements]; Rivero, supra, 105
Cal.App.4th at p. 924 [reports that a particular supervisor was fired after
union members complained of his activities are not a discussion of policies
against unlawful workplace activities].)
 
(Wilbanks v. Wolk (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 883, 898 [bold emphasis added].)
            §
425.16(e)(4)—also known as the “catchall provision”—may apply to private
communications concerning issues of public interest.(FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019)
7 Cal.5th 133, 146. However: 
The inquiry under the catchall provision . . . calls for
a two-part analysis rooted in the statute's purpose and internal logic. First,
we ask what “public issue or … issue of public interest” the speech in question
implicates—a question we answer by looking to the content of the speech. (§
425.16, subd. (e)(4).) Second, we ask what functional relationship
exists [*150]  between the speech and the public conversation
about some matter of public interest. It is at the latter stage that context
proves useful.
    
(Id. at 149-50.)
Under the catchall
provision, there must be “some degree of closeness” between the challenged
statements and the asserted public interest, more than just a reference; the
statement must in some manner itself contribute to the public debate. (Id.
at 150.)
What it means to “contribute to the public debate” (Wilbanks, supra,
121 Cal.App.4th at p. 898) will perhaps differ based on the state of
public [*151]  discourse at a given time, and the topic of
contention. But ultimately, our inquiry does not turn on a normative
evaluation of the substance of the speech. We are not concerned with the social
utility of the speech at issue, or the degree to which it propelled the
conversation in any particular direction; rather, we examine whether a
defendant—through public or private speech or conduct—participated in, or
furthered, the discourse that makes an issue one of public
interest. (Citations omitted.) . . .
But the inquiry of whether a statement [*152]  contributes to
the public debate is one a court can hardly undertake without incorporating
considerations of context—including audience, speaker, and purpose.
 
     (Id. at 151-52.)


T]he focus of our inquiry must be on “the specific nature of
the speech,” rather than on any “generalities that might be abstracted from
it.” (Citation omitted.) Defendants cannot merely offer a “synecdoche theory”
of public interest, defining their narrow dispute by its slight reference to
the broader public issue. (Ibid.)
 
So the second part of the test moves from a focus on
identifying the relevant matters of public interest to addressing the specific
nature of defendant's speech and its relationship to the matters of public
interest. We cannot answer this second question simply by looking at the
content of the challenged statements—though no doubt in some cases that content
will prove illuminating. . . .. Instead, a court must consider whether a statement—including
the identity of its speaker, for example, or the audience sought—contributes to
or furthers the public conversation on an issue of public interest. It is by
carefully observing this wedding of content and context that we can discern if
conduct is “in furtherance of” free speech “in connection with” a public issue
or issue of public interest. (§ 425.16, subd. (e)(4).) What this union of
content and context lets us discern in this case is that DoubleVerify's
report does not qualify for protection under the catchall provision of the
anti-SLAPP statute.
 
(Id. at 152-54.)
            Because
Defendant does not satisfy the first prong on the anti-SLAPP analysis, the
Court need not—and does not—proceed to the second prong. “If the defendant does not demonstrate this initial prong, the court
should deny the anti-SLAPP motion and need not address the second step. (Citations
omitted.)” (Hylton v. Frank E.
Rogozienski, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1264, 1271.)
            The
anti-SLAPP special motion to strike is DENIED as to the first and second causes
of action. Defendant is ordered to answer Complaint within 10 days.


