  Case Number:  22STCP04241    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  82 


 
JIMMI LEWIS,  


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
22STCP04241




vs.
 
 
VOI INSURANCE SOLUTIONS, LLC, et al.,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Jimmi Lewis petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondents VOI Insurance
Solutions, LLC and R & T Management, Inc. to deliver copies of documents
specified in paragraph 14 of Lewis’s petition. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
VOI
Insurance Solutions, LLC (“VOI”) is a Delaware limited liability company in the
business of originating and producing insurance policies.  (Akerley VOI Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. C at
Recital A & § 2.4.)
 
            Starting July 1, 2012, pursuant to a
written agreement (“Employment Agreement”), petitioner Jimmi Lewis was employed
by respondent VOI Insurance Solutions, LLC (“VOI”) as the Executive Vice
President. (Akerley VOI Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. A.) In connection with petitioner’s
employment, petitioner was granted “incentive membership interests” in VOI
pursuant to an Award Agreement. (Akerley VOI Decl. Ex. A at 2.) In the Award
Agreement, petitioner was granted “five percent (5%) of the total issued and
outstanding membership interests” of VOI as of July 1, 2012, subject to
adjustment based on reaching performance targets set forth in that agreement. (Akerley
VOI Decl. Ex. B at 2].) 
 
The
Award Agreement was expressly subject to the terms of VOI’s Operating
Agreement. (Akerley VOI Decl. Ex. B at 1 [Recital A].) Petitioner “accept[ed]
and agree[d] to be bound by all the terms and conditions of the LLC Agreement [i.e.,
Operating Agreement], as such terms and conditions are modified in their
application” to petitioner pursuant to the Award Agreement. (Akerley VOI Decl.
Ex. B at 1 [¶ 1.a.].)
 
            VOI’s Operating Agreement defines “Members”
as “any Person who has entered into a Subscription Agreement, has not withdrawn
or disassociated itself from the Company, and is listed as a Member of the
Company in the books and records of the Company.” (Akerley VOI Decl. Ex. C at §
1.49.) A “Subscription Agreement” is “an agreement to acquire interests in
[VOI] entered into between [VOI] and each Member.” (Akerley VOI Decl. Ex. C at
§ 1.66.) “Assignee,” on the other hand, is defined as “an assignee or a
transferee of a Member Interest who has not been admitted as a new Member.” (Akerley
VOI Decl. Ex. C at § 1.8.)
 
            From May 2012 through December 31,
2021, respondent R & T Management, Inc. (“R&T”) owned and managed VOI.
(Akerley R&T Decl. ¶ 2.) On December 31, 2021, R&T assigned its membership
interests and management responsibilities in VOI to Mary Street Group II, Inc.
(Akerley R&T Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4 &
Ex. 1 at §§ 1, 3.) 
 
            On May 12, 2022, VOI terminated
petitioner’s employment. (Lewis Decl. ¶ 24.) 
 
Through
the instant petition, petitioner seeks the following documents from VOI: 
 
(a)  The complete Operating Agreement
of VOI INSURANCE SOLUTIONS, LLC (“VOI”) dated June 3, 2010 (the “Operating
Agreement”) including the Subscription Agreements described therein and any
amendments thereto.
 
(b)  A true, correct and complete
copy of any written limited liability company agreement and certificate of
formation and all amendments thereto with regard to VOI.
 
(c)  Any and all documents relating
to R&T Management Inc. (“R&T”) being appointed the manager of VOI and
the terms and conditions of any agreement pursuant to which R&T acts as the
manager of VOI.
 
(d)  All minutes and resolutions of
VOI in connection with the affairs of VOI since June 3, 2010 including but not
limited to its members and its manager.
 
(e)  Any and all documents related to
or referring to VOI in connection with an alleged transaction for a business
combination, merger, purchase of assets, purchase of stock, purchase of assets
[sic] in calendar year 2021 involving Pango and First American including but
not limited to, documents providing for the exclusion of VOI from the
transaction between Pango and First American or among other third parties.
 
(f)   Documents reflecting an alleged
business combination transaction in calendar year 2021 between Pango and First
American.
 
(g)  Any and all documents reflecting
an agreement, understanding or course of conduct between VOI and Pango pursuant
to which Pango agreed to provide sales leads to VOI.
 
(h)  Any and all documents reflecting
that Pango was terminating its agreement or understanding with VOI to provide
sales leads to VOI for the period January 1, 2021 to date. 
 
(i)   Any and all documents during
calendar years 2020, 2021, 2022 and to date reflecting any changes in ownership
of R&T and any changes in the directors and officers of R&T.
 
(j)   True and full information
regarding the status of the business and financial condition of VOI. 
 
(k)  A current list of the name and
last known business, residence or mailing address of each member and manager of
VOI.
 
(l)   Any and all documents reflecting
the ownership of R&T, its officer and directors for the period commencing
January 1, 2018 to date. 
 
(Pet. ¶
14; Prayer for Relief ¶ A.) 
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
December 1, 2022, petitioner Jimmi Lewis filed a Petition for Writ of Mandate
to Enforce Member’s Right to Obtain, Inspect and Copy Certain Records of a
Limited Liability Company. On February 15, 2022, the verification to the
petition was filed. 
 
            On
January 10, 2023, VOI filed an Answer. On June 12, 2023, after R&T’s motion
to strike had been denied (see 5/18/23 Minute Order]), R&T filed an
Answer.
 
            On
January 9, 2023, VOI filed a cross-petition against James Alan Lewis, a/k/a
Jimmi Lewis. On February 28, 2023, petitioner filed a cross-petition against
VOI, R & T, Pango Group, Inc., First American Financial Corporation, and
Scott Akerley. On March 16, 2023, the Court (Hon. Mary H. Strobel) stayed the
cross-petitions pending resolution of the writ cause of action in the initial
petition.
 
            On
January 19, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief. On February 16, 2024, VOI
and R&T filed separate oppositions. On March 1, 2024, petitioner filed a
reply to each of the two oppositions. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where…the claim is that an
agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
Corporate
inspections are governed under CCP § 1085. (Wolf v. CDS Devco (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 903, 912.) The rights of a member of an LLC to inspect and copy
records of the LLC are set forth in Corporations Code §§ 17704.10 and 17701.13.
Section 17704.10 provides in relevant part:
 
(a)
Upon the request of a member or transferee, for purposes reasonably related to
the interest of that person as a member or a transferee, a manager or, if the
limited liability company is member-managed, a member in possession of the
requested information, shall promptly deliver, in writing, to the member or
transferee, at the expense of the limited liability company, a copy of the
information required to be maintained by paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) of
subdivision (d) of Section 17701.13, and any written operating agreement of the
limited liability company.
 
(b)
Each member, manager, and transferee has the right, upon reasonable request,
for purposes reasonably related to the interest of that person as a member,
manager, or transferee, to each of the following:
 
(1) To
inspect and copy during normal business hours any of the records required to be
maintained pursuant to Section 17701.13.
 
(2) To
obtain in writing from the limited liability company, promptly after becoming
available, a copy of the limited liability company's federal, state, and local
income tax returns for each year….
 
(g)
In any action under this section or under Section 17713.07, if the court finds
the failure of the limited liability company to comply with the requirements of
this section is without justification, the court may award an amount sufficient
to reimburse the person bringing the action for the reasonable expenses
incurred by that person, including attorney's fees, in connection with the
action or proceeding.
 
With
respect to records that are required to be maintained, section 17701.13
provides, in relevant part:
 
(d)
Each limited liability company shall maintain in writing or in any other form
capable of being converted into clearly legible tangible form at the office
referred to in subdivision (a)[[1]]
all of the following:
 
(1) A
current list of the full name and last known business or residence address of
each member and of each transferee set forth in alphabetical order, together
with the contribution and the share in profits and losses of each member and
transferee.
 
(2) If
the limited liability company is a manager-managed limited liability company, a
current list of the full name and business or residence address of each
manager.
 
(3) A
copy of the articles of organization and all amendments thereto, together with
any powers of attorney pursuant to which the articles of organization or any
amendments thereto were executed.
 
(4)
Copies of the limited liability company’s federal, state, and local income tax
or information returns and reports, if any, for the six most recent fiscal
years.
 
(5) A
copy of the limited liability company’s operating agreement, if in writing, and
any amendments thereto, together with any powers of attorney pursuant to which
any written operating agreement or any amendments thereto were executed.
 
(6)
Copies of the financial statement of the limited liability company, if any, for
the six most recent fiscal years.
 
(7)
The books and records of the limited liability company as they relate to the
internal affairs of the limited liability company for at least the current and
past four fiscal years.
 
IV.     Analysis
 
            As a preliminary matter, VOI’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED in its entirety. (Evid. Code § 452(a).) 
 
A.          
Merits
of Petition with Respect to VOI Insurance Solutions, LLC
 
            The essential issue presented in the
petition is whether petitioner was a member of VOI. (See Pet. ¶¶ 4, 5, 6,
8 [alleging that petitioner is member of VOI and has inspection rights as
member].) Petitioner maintains that, when he entered into the Employment Agreement,
he was told by R&T and VOI that he would be an owner of VOI. (Lewis Decl. ¶
13.)[2]
Petitioner also asserts that he was “repeatedly assured” by VOI and R&T
that he was a member of VOI. (Lewis Decl. ¶ 16.) 
 
            Petitioner’s rights to inspect
documents are governed by the statutes governing inspection. (See Ramirez v.
Gilead Sciences, Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 218, 224 [concerning
shareholder inspection rights under Corp. Code § 1601].) Because VOI is a
Delaware limited liability company, the right to inspect its documents is
governed by Delaware law. (See Juul Labs, Inc. v. Grove (Del. Ch. 2020)
238 A.3d 904, 918; see also Grove v. Juul Labs, Inc. (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 1081, 1086-87, 1099 [giving full faith and credit to Delaware decision].)
It is undisputed that California law also governs petitioner’s inspection
rights because more than 25% of VOI’s members reside in California. (See VOI
Opp. at 5, fn. 25 [citing Corp. Code § 17708.08]; Opening Br. at 2:14-19
[stating that Corp. Code § 17708.08 applies].) 
 
            Accordingly, the Court examines
whether petitioner has the right to inspect VOI’s documents under Delaware law
and California law.[3]


 
1.           
Delaware
Law
 
Under
the Delaware Code, members (and managers) have the right to obtain information
and documents of a limited liability company (“LLC”). (6 Del. Code § 18-305(a),
(b); see also 6 Del. Code § 18-305(f) [providing that “demanding member
or manager may apply to the Court of Chancery for an order to compel such
disclosure”].) A “member” is “a person who is admitted to a limited liability
company as a member as provided in § 18-301 of this title, and includes a
member of the limited liability company generally and a member associated with
a series of the limited liability company.” (6 Del. Code § 18-101(13).) Section
18-301 of title 6 distinguishes between members and assignees. Assignees of an
interest of an LLC are admitted as members of the LLC as provided in section
18-704(a) of title 6. (6 Del. Code § 18-301(b)(2).) Section 18-704(a) provides
three ways by which an assignee of an LLC interest becomes a member: (1) as
provided in the LLC agreement; (2) upon the vote or consent of all the members
of the LLC; or (3) upon the voluntary assignment of all the interests in the
LLC by the sole member to a single assignee. (6 Del. Code § 18-301(a)(1-3).)
 
Petitioner
does not present any evidence demonstrating that all the members of the LLC
voted or consented to petitioner’s membership in VOI. Nor does petitioner
present any evidence that there is a sole member of VOI that transferred all
its interest in the LLC to petitioner. Thus, in accordance with section
18-704(a), petitioner may obtain documents and information only if he became a
member of VOI in accordance with the terms of the Operating Agreement. 
 
As
recounted in the Factual Background section above, VOI’s Operating Agreement
defines “Members” as “any Person who has entered into a Subscription Agreement,
has not withdrawn or disassociated itself from the Company, and is listed as a
Member of the Company in the books and records of the Company.” (Ackerley VOI
Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. C at § 1.49; see also id. at § 1.66 [defining
“Subscription Agreement”].)  “The
petitioner always bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.” (California Correctional Peace
Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)
 
Here,
petitioner has presented no evidence that he entered into any such Subscription
Agreement. (Cf. Akerley VOI Decl. ¶ 4 [“[Petitioner] was never voted
into membership by the vote or consent of all VOI members. He never entered
into a subscription agreement. And he has never been listed as a member of VOI
in VOI’s books and records”].) Petitioner also has not presented any evidence
that he is listed as a Member of VOI in its books and records.[4]
Instead, in support of his opening brief, petitioner presents various documents,
but none of these documents sufficiently meet petitioner’s burden to
demonstrate he was a Member of VOI for the following reasons: 
 

The Employment Agreement references an Award
     Agreement, which granted petitioner an “incentive Membership Interest”
     subject to the terms of the Operating Agreement. (Lewis Ex. C at Recital
     A.) The terms of the Operating Agreement provide that “Members” must have
     entered into a Subscription Agreement and be listed as a Member of VOI’s
     books and records. (Lewis Ex. B at § 1.49.) As stated above, petitioner
     presents no evidence of either condition having been satisfied. 

 

The Business Entity Disclosure form filed with
     the California Department of Insurance lists petitioner as having 5% ownership
     (Lewis Ex. D), but being listed as having an ownership interest is not
     necessarily synonymous with declaring petitioner a Member of VOI in
     accordance with its Operating Agreement. Indeed, being listed as having a
     5% ownership interest is consistent with being an Assignee of a 5%
     membership interest, which explicitly is not the same as being a Member of
     VOI.  (See Akerley VOI Decl.
     Ex. C at § 1.8.)

 

VOI’s August 2021 Business Plan indicates that
     Lewis is a Principal (Lewis Ex. E), but such a description does not
     necessarily mean he is a Member of VOI in accordance with its Operating
     Agreement.  Being described as a
     so-called principal is also consistent with being an Assignee of a 5%
     membership interest, which is not the same as being a Member of VOI.  (See Akerley VOI Decl. Ex. C at §
     1.8.)

 

VOI’s admission in discovery that petitioner
     owned 8% of VOI as of December 31, 2021 only indicates that petitioner had
     an ownership interest, but does not constitute an admission that
     petitioner was a Member. (See Lewis Ex. F [No. 4].) While VOI also
     admitted that it “has not purchased [petitioner’s] membership interest in
     VOI,” such admission does not necessarily concede petitioner was a Member
     with an interest to sell.  Rather
     such admission is also consistent with petitioner being an Assignee of a
     membership interest that he has not sold. (See Monroy v. City of Los
     Angeles (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 248, 260 [“If a response to a request
     for admission is unambiguous, and is not subject to different meanings,
     the matter admitted is conclusively established”].)

 

The Statement of Information filed with the
     California Secretary of State only indicates that R&T and Scott
     Akerley, VOI’s CEO, are managers or members of VOI, not petitioner. (Lewis
     Ex. G.) 

 
Petitioner’s
averments that he was told by VOI and R&T that he was an owner are also unavailing,
because ownership is not equivalent to membership under the Operating
Agreement. (See Lewis Decl. ¶¶ 12, 18-20, 23.) Petitioner also avers
that he was “repeatedly assured by VOI and R&T” that he was a member of VOI
“[a]t all times relevant.” (Lewis Decl. ¶ 16.) Petitioner does not state who
from VOI or R&T made the purported representations of membership and
specifically when such representations were made. Petitioner’s vague and
conclusory assertions are insufficient for petitioner to satisfy his burden to
show that he was a Member of VOI under the Operating Agreement. (See Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 281 [legal conclusions
and ultimate facts without evidentiary basis insufficient to support relief].) 
 
Lastly,
petitioner claims that he must have been a Member of VOI, because VOI and
R&T needed Lewis’ licensure with the California Department of Insurance, to
conduct business. (Opening Br. at 3:11-15.)   Petitioner cites no authority for this
proposition, and contentions unsupported by citation of authority are
disregarded. (Niko, 144 Cal.App.4th at 368; Valov, 132
Cal.App.4th at 1132.) Further, it does not necessarily follow that petitioner was
made a Member of VOI, notwithstanding the failure to adhere to the requirements
of the Operating Agreement to become a Member, just because his license may
have been needed.
 
For
the foregoing reasons, petitioner was an “assignee” under the Operating
Agreement. (Akerley VOI Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. C at § 1.8 [“assignee” defined as
“an assignee or a transferee of a Member Interest who has not been admitted as
a new Member”].) As an “assignee,” petitioner may own an interest in VOI, but this
does not mean that petitioner is a Member of VOI. Petitioner thus does not meet
his burden to demonstrate that he has inspection rights under Delaware law. 
 
2.           
California
Law
 
Corporations
Code § 17708.08 states: “If the members of a foreign limited liability company
residing in this state represent 25 percent or more of the voting interests of
the members of that foreign limited liability company, those members shall be
entitled to all information and inspection rights provided in Section 17704.10.”
There is no dispute that at least 25% of the voting interests of the members of
VOI, a foreign LLC based in Delaware reside in California. 
            
            Under the California Revised Uniform
Limited Liability Company Act (Corp. Code § 17701.01, et seq.), “member”
is defined as a “person that has become a member of a limited liability company
under Section 17704.01….” (Corp. Code § 17701.02(p).) Section 17704.01
provides that a person becomes a member of an LLC (1) as provided in the
operating agreement, (2) as the result of the LLC’s conversion from another business
form, or (3) with the consent of all members of the LLC. (Corp. Code §
17704.01(c).) Membership is distinct from ownership of an interest in the LLC.
(See Corp. Code §§ 17701.02(aa) [“transferable interest” is right to
receive distributions from LLC “whether or not the person remains a member],
17701.02(ab) [“transferee” defined as “a person to which all or part of a
transferable interest has been transferred, whether or not the transferor is a
member”], 17704.01(d) [“A person may become a member without acquiring a
transferable interest and without making or being obligated to make a
contribution to the limited liability company”].) 
 
            There is no assertion that VOI has
converted from any other business form. Accordingly, under California law, petitioner
may be a member of VOI as provided in the Operating Agreement or with the
consent of all members of VOI. As stated above with respect to Delaware law,
petitioner presents no evidence that he entered into a Subscription Agreement
or is listed as a Member in VOI’s books and records, as is required by the
Operating Agreement. Petitioner also presents no evidence that all the members of
VOI consented to petitioner’s membership. (Cf. Akerley VOI Decl. ¶ 4 [petitioner
“was never voted into membership by the vote or consent of all VOI members”].) 
 
            For the foregoing reasons,
petitioner does not establish that he is entitled to inspect VOI’s records
under California law. 
 
3.           
Conclusion
 
Based
on the foregoing, petitioner has not established that he can compel the
inspection of VOI’s records because he is not a “Member” under the Operating
Agreement. Accordingly, the Court does not reach VOI’s argument that petitioner’s
inspection request is overbroad under Delaware or California law. 
 
B.          
Merits
of Petition with Respect to R & T Management, Inc.
 
In
a separate opposition, R&T presents the following arguments: (1) petitioner
failed to make any pre-litigation demand on R&T; (2) R&T is not a
proper party; and (3) petitioner’s inspection request is overbroad.
 
The
second contention is dispositive. R&T establishes that it is not properly
named in the writ cause of action. Corporations Code § 17704.10(b)(1) provides
that members, managers, and transferees have the right to “inspect and copy
during normal business hours any of the records required to be maintained
pursuant to Section 17701.13.” Reference to inspection during normal
business hours implies that the records may be inspected at the office where
the records are kept. (See Jara v. Suprema Meats, Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1263 [analyzing similarly worded Corporations Code § 1601].)
Further, Corporations Code § 17704.10(g) states: “In any action under this
section…if the court finds the failure of the limited liability company
to comply with the requirements of this section is without justification, the
court may award an amount sufficient to reimburse the person bringing the
action for the reasonable expenses incurred by that person, including
attorney’s fees, in connection with the action or proceeding.” 
 
            Any failure by VOI to comply with
petitioner’s purported inspection rights cannot be imputed to R&T. On December
31, 2021, prior to the filing of the instant petition, R&T assigned all of
its VOI membership interests and management responsibilities to Mary Street
Group II, Inc. (Akerley R&T Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4 & Ex. 1.) Accordingly,
R&T no longer has any control over VOI. R&T cannot order VOI to allow
inspection of the documents which petitioner seeks to inspect. 
 
            In support of the opening brief,
petitioner presents a Statement of Information filed by VOI on May 25, 2023 at
3:01 p.m. indicating that R&T was the manager of VOI. (Lewis Decl. Ex. G.)
However, VOI subsequently filed an amended Statement of Information at 4:26
p.m. on May 25, 2023 indicating that Scott Akerley, not R&T, was VOI’s
manager. This amended Statement of Information, combined with the assignment of
management responsibilities more than a year prior, indicates that the
Statement of Information filed at 3:01 p.m. on May 25, 2023 was in error. (See
Hill Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4 & Exs. A, B.) 
 
            For the foregoing reasons,
petitioner’s writ cause of action against R&T is misdirected. The Court
therefore does not reach R&T’s first and third arguments about the failure
to make pre-litigation demand or overbreadth of petitioner’s inspection request,
respectively. 
 
C.          
Attorney
Fees
 
Petitioner
alleges that he is entitled to attorney fees under the Operating Agreement and
Corporations Code § 17704.10(g). However, petitioner is not the prevailing
party. To the extent that VOI or R&T may be entitled to attorney fees, that
issue is reserved for a future fee motion. 
 
V.      Conclusion
 
The petition is DENIED. Pursuant to Local Rule
3.231(n), respondent VOI Insurance Solutions, LLC and R & T Management,
Inc. shall jointly prepare, serve, and ultimately file a proposed judgment.
 
 
 
 
 
            At
the hearing, the parties shall discuss whether the causes of action in the
cross-petitions remain after resolution of the writ cause of action. 
 


