  Case Number:  21STCV04848    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



Eileen Vargas
 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
GTrans, et al., 
 
Defendant(s). 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV04848 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motions
  to Compel Responses to (1) Form Interrogatories and (2) Requests for Production
  of Documents and to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted
   
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
December 7, 2023.



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION 
 
On February 5, 2021, Plaintiff Eileen Vargas
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants GTrans, City of Gardena,
County of Los Angeles, and Luis Doe (“Defendants”) alleging two causes of
action for (1) General Negligence and (2) Motor Vehicle. Plaintiff alleges that
she was a passenger on Defendants’ bus when it hit the brakes to avoid a
collision, which resulted in Plaintiff sustaining injuries. 
 
On June 14, 2021, City of Gardena filed a Demurrer
with a Motion to Strike. 
 
On July 9, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Request for
Dismissal as to Defendant County of Los Angeles only. 
 
On September 20, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint. 
 
On September 29, 2021, Defendant City of Gardena
filed a Demurrer. 
 
On April 1, 2022, Defendant City of Gardena filed
an Answer. 
 
On March 29, 2023, Defendant City of Gardena filed
three Motions to Compel. As of December 4, 2023, no oppositions have been
filed. This order is for all three motions.
 
    II.           
INTERROGATORIES
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
A party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿ The statute contains no time limit for a motion
to compel where no responses have been served.¿ All that need be shown in the
moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served.¿ (Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)¿Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿  
 
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . .
. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the
court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿ 
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel
responses to interrogatories against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Defendant City of Gardena moves
to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
Defendant propounded Form
Interrogatories on Plaintiff on January 1, 2023, with responses due on February
2, 2023. Defendant’s counsel provided plaintiff’s counsel a two-week extension.
However, as of March 29, 2023, no responses have been provided. Moreover,
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that they have been unable to contact Plaintiff. 
 
Defendant is entitled to responses. Plaintiff has failed to
provide responses to the Form Interrogatories that were served on January 1,
2023, almost a year ago. As stated above, under CCP §§ 2030.290, when a party
fails to provide responses to timely propounded discovery, a party may move for
an order compelling responses. 
 
Defendant does not request monetary sanctions. 
 
The Motion to Compel Form Interrogatory Responses is GRANTED. 
 
 III.           
REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSION
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
            A party must respond to requests for
admissions within 30 days after service of such requests. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.250, subd. (a).)  “If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response…(a) [that party] waives any objection
to the requests, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) The court may relieve this
waiver if “(1) the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. and (2) the party’s
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
neglect.” (CCP § 2033.280 (a)(1) and (2)). “The requesting party may move for
an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7.” (Id. at
subd. (b).)  A motion dealing with the failure to respond, rather than
with inadequate responses, does not require the requesting party to meet and
confer with the responding party. (Deymer
v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395, fn. 4
[disapproved on other grounds in Wilcox
v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th 973]. There is no time limit within which
a motion to have matters deemed admitted must be made. (Brigante v. Huang (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1569, 1585.) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Defendant
moves to have the Court deem Requests for Admissions (RFAs) admitted. 
 
Defendant propounded RFAs on
Plaintiff on January 1, 2023, with responses due on February 2, 2023.
Defendant’s counsel provided plaintiff’s counsel a two-week extension. However,
as of March 29, 2023, no responses have been provided. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates that they have been unable to contact Plaintiff and has not
yet indicated that they have contacted Plaintiff. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to provide
responses in a timely manner. Defendant served the RFAs back in January 2023.
Defendant also granted Plaintiff an extension to provide the responses.
However, Defendant contacted Plaintiff to determine when responses would be
provided, but no responses have been provided. Thus, Defendant has demonstrated
that it has attempted to resolve the matter without court intervention. Despite
these attempts, Plaintiff has failed to provide responses to the RFAs.
Therefore, under CCP § 2033.280, a party may move to have the requests be
deemed admitted.
 
Defendant does not request monetary sanctions.. 
 
Defendant’s Motion for Order Deeming the RFAs Admitted is
GRANTED.
 
 IV.           
REQUESTS FOR
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
A party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and
for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)¿ The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served.¿ Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(a).)¿  
 
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . .
. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the
court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿ 
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel
responses to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Defendant City of Gardena moves
to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. 
 
Defendant propounded Requests for
Production of Documents on Plaintiff on January 1, 2023, with responses due on
February 2, 2023. Defendant’s counsel provided plaintiff’s counsel a two-week
extension. However, as of March 29, 2023, no responses have been provided.
Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that they have been unable to contact
Plaintiff and has not yet indicated that they have contacted Plaintiff. 
 
Here, Defendant is entitled to responses. Plaintiff has
failed to provide responses to the Requests for Production of Documents that were
served on January 1, 2023, almost a year ago. As stated above, under CCP §§
2030.290, when a party fails to provide responses to timely propounded
discovery, a party may move for an order compelling responses. 
 
Defendant does not request monetary sanctions. 
 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents is GRANTED.

 
 
    V.           
CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant’s Motions to Compel Responses are GRANTED.  Plaintiff is to provide responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One without
objection within 30 days of the date of this order.  Defendant’s Motion to Deem Requests for
Admission Admitted is GRANTED.
 
The Court does not award sanctions. 
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 
Dated: December 7, 2023 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian   
Judge of the Superior
  Court 
 



 
 
 