 Case Number:  22TRCV01555    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 20, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01555
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ingrid Majorie Lockwood v. City of Gardena, et al.¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, City of Gardena
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Ingrid Majorie Lockwood 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
Set.   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendant’s Demurrer is OVERRULED
as to the first cause of action but SUSTAINED as to the second cause of action.  Leave to amend to be discussed
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On December
22, 2023, Plaintiff, Ingrid Majorie Lockwood (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint
against Defendants, City of Gardena, GTrans, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. On
March 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.  After the Court sustained the City’s Demurrer
to the original Complaint, on July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) General Negligence; and
(2) Negligent Supervision, Hiring, or Retention. 
 
City of
Gardena (“City”) now files
a demurrer to the SAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On August 24, 2023, Defendant,
City filed a Demurrer. On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
September 13, 2023, Defendant filed a reply brief.  
 
¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
¿ 
City demurs to the SAC on the
grounds that: 
 
1.     
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for “general negligence”
against Defendant and/or is uncertain because it fails to plead specific
factual allegations to establish any breach of duty on the part of City. 
2.     
Plaintiff’s Second cause of action for negligent
supervision, hiring, and retention fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against City, is duplicative of the first cause of
action, an/or is uncertain as it fails to plead specific factual allegations to
establish any breach of duty on the part of City. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Demurrer 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading
that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient
to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form
part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
General Negligence Causes
of Action 
 
In
order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of
(1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
            The City’s demurrer argues that Plaintiff’s first cause
of action is conclusory and fails to provide any specific factual allegations
to establish how the City breached any duty of care to Plaintiff. Public entities
cannot be liable for common law theories of general negligence. (Miklosy v.
Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899 [“section
815 abolishes common law tort liability for public entities”].) Therefore,
liability against a public entity must be authorized by statute. (Eastburn
v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1179; Gov.
Code, § 815, subd. (a) [“A public entity is not liable for an injury . . .
except as otherwise provided by statute”].) “Ordinarily, negligence may be
pleaded in general terms and the plaintiff need not specify the precise act or
omission alleged to constitute the breach of duty. [Citation]. However, because
under the Tort Claims Act all governmental tort liability is based on statute,
the general rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with
particularity is applicable. Thus, ‘to state a cause of action against a public
entity, every fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be
pleaded with particularity.’” (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.)  
 
“[I]n California
all government tort liability is dependent on the existence of an authorizing
statute or ‘enactment’ . . . and to state a cause of action every fact
essential to the existence of statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.” (Searcy v.
Hemet Unified School District (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) A demurrer
may be sustained where the plaintiff fails to allege a statutory basis for
liability against a public entity. (Tilton v. Reclamation Dist. No. 800
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 848, 863-864 [affirming trial court’s sustaining a
demurrer without leave to amend as to four tort causes of action where
plaintiff failed to allege statutory basis—i.e., mandatory duty under
Government Code section 815.6—for liability against public
entity].)   
 
Here, Plaintiff first
cause of action alleges that Defendants, City and GTrans, LLC and
or those it is responsible for negligently maintained, controlled and operated
its transit bus No. 2 in such a way that it caused injury and damage to
Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff asserts that the bus driver, Defendant Doe 1,
was an employee of Defendants City and GTrans, LLC, and that while acting
within the scope of his employment, Defendant Doe 1 failed to lower the bus for
Plaintiff, a disabled passenger, thereby causing Plaintiff to fall to the floor
of the bus as she attempted to step into the bus. (SAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
contends that Defendants, by and through their agent/employee, Defendant Doe 1,
had a duty to protect Plaintiff who was a passenger of the transit bus. (SAC, ¶
3.) Plaintiff further contends that Defendants, by and through their agent/employee,
Doe 1, breached its duty to Plaintiff by: (1) failing to lower the bus ramp;
(2) failing to adequately hire, supervise, an adequate bus driver; and (3) by
creating the circumstance where Plaintiff was likely to receive medical
treatment therefore exacerbating the harm done to Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff alleges that it was foreseeable that if Defendant Doe 1 did not lower
the bus ramp for Plaintiff they would be vulnerable to physical injury because
the bus was too high for Plaintiff to step on to. (SAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff has
also alleged statutory liability based on California Government Code § 820(a).
 
            At the pleading stage, these allegations which expand on
what was alleged in the original Complaint are enough to allege a cause of
action against a public entity for general negligence. As such, the demurrer is
overruled. 
 
Negligent
Supervision, Hiring, or Retention
 
            City next argues that that Plaintiff’s second cause of
action is duplicative of the first cause of action. In pleading a negligent supervision claim,
plaintiff must allege: (1) employer/supervisor defendant hired the employee;
(2) the employee was unfit or posed a particular risk in performing the work
for which he was hired; (3) the employer/supervisor knew or should have known
that the employee was unfit and this unfitness created a particular risk to
others; (4) that the employee’s unfitness harmed the plaintiff; and (5) that
employer/supervisor’s negligence in supervising the employee was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (Judicial Council of California Civil
Jury Instruction (“CACI”) 426 (2019); see also Z.V. v. County of
Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889. 902.)
 
            Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that
City hired Defendant Doe 1, and that they failed to supervise him properly to
perform his job, thereby failing to protect the welfare and safety of
passengers on board bus No. 2. (SAC, ¶¶ 1, 2.) Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendant Doe 1, in the management, operation, and control of bus No. 2, failed
to follow proper protocol when he failed to lower the bus for Plaintiff,
causing Plaintiff to fall. (SAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff further contends that as a
result of the employee’s conduct, Plaintiff suffered, and continues to suffer
injuries. (SAC, ¶ 4.)
 
            Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient
facts to meet all elements of the second cause of action. What is the alleged
protocol for lowering the ramp that Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 failed to do?  Did the City fail to provide training or
education to Doe 1 concerning such a protocol? 
In what manner was Doe 1 unfit or pose a particular risk to
Plaintiff?  As noted above, allegations
against public agencies require greater specificity than those against private
citizen defendants.  As such, the
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained. The Court will allow oral
argument as to whether Plaintiff believes they can further amend their pleading
to allege sufficient facts. 
 