 Case Number:  23TRCV01129    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 20, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01129
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Latanya Scandrick, et al. v. Orlando Scandrick, et
al.                       .¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Orlando Scandrick, Wanda Scandrick, Trena Scandrick
aka Trena S. Norwood
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Latanya Scandrick, as Executor of Estate of
Henry Lee Scandrick, Latanya Scandrick, Christopher Scandrick, Pail Scandrick,
and Sherman Scandrick
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
Set.   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
(2) Motion to Strike 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendant’s Demurrer is Continued

(2) Defendant’s Motion to Strike is continued. 
 
 
 
¿I. CONTINUANCE DISCUSSION 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Defendants have violated California Rule of Court 3.1113
(d).  “Except in a summary judgment or
summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15
pages.” (CRC 3.1113(d).) Here, Defendants ‘moving papers include a memorandum
of points and authorities that is twenty- five (25) pages, clearly exceeding
the fifteen (15) page limit. The Court will allow oral argument from Defendant
as to the prospect of continuing this motion to allow Defendant to file moving
papers that comply with the Rules of Court. No application or request was made
to seek an enlargement of the page limit.  The Court has not
considered the merits of the motion because of this violation so oral argument
on the motion’s merits will not be taken at the September 20, 2023 hearing.
            The
Court understands that this length is because Defendants have decided to combine
their Demurrer and Motion to Strike into a single motion. A review of the authority
for demurs in Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10 to 430.90 and the authority for
a Motion to Strike reveals no language that authorizes a party to combine a
demurrer and motion to strike into a single motion and thereby exceed the page
limitation. As such, this Court will allow oral argument from Defendants as to
the prospect of continuing the motion as it is procedurally defective. 