 Case Number:  22STCV25688    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV25688




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, for
  Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant City of Pasadena




OPPOSING PARTY


(1)   Plaintiff Richard Mora
(2)   Defendant Judith B. Kleinman as
  trustee of the Neil H. and Judith B. Kleinment Trust dated March 6, 1998 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.     Declaration of Arnold F. Lee in Support
4.     Declaration of Mandy Templeton in Support
5.     Declaration of Arlene Gallardo in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities; Declaration of Gevork Gazaryan
2.     Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition
3.     Plaintiff’s Evidence in Opposition 
4.     Defendants’ Opposition; Declaration of Raquel
Vallejo
5.     Defendants’ Opposition to Separate Statement 
6.     Defendants’ Objections to the Evidence
submitted by City 
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.     City’s Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.     City’s Evidentiary Objections to Plaintiff’s
Opposition
3.     City’s Response to Plaintiff's Separate
Statement
4.     City’s Reply to Defendant’s Opposition
5.     City’s Evidentiary Objections to
Defendant  
6.     City’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
August 9, 2022, Plaintiff Richard Mora (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants City of Pasadena, County of Los Angeles, California Department of
Transportation, Neil H. Kleinman as Trustee of the Neil H. and Judith B. Kleinman
Trust dated March 6, 1998, Judith B. Kleinman as Trustee of the Neil
H. and Judith B. Kleinman Trust dated March 6, 1998, and Does 1 to 50. 
 
            Plaintiff
asserts a negligence and premises liability cause of action, alleging that on
August 4, 2021, at or near 466 Alpine St., Pasadena, California 91106, he “was
walking on the sidewalk and/or walkway at or near 466 Alpine St. when all of a
sudden [he] tripped and fell on an uneven and/or raised and/or broken and/or
deteriorating area of the sidewalk and/or curb.” (Complaint, 6.) 
 
            Against
Moving Defendant City of Pasadena (“City”), Plaintiff asserts a dangerous
condition of public property under Government Code section 835. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants negligently maintained the premises and failed to barricade
the area or warn of the condition. (Complaint, 8.) 
 
City now moves for
summary judgement, or alternatively summary adjudication, arguing that the
subject curb where Plaintiff fell was not owned or controlled by City, and that
it had no actual or constructive notice of the defect. 
 
            Plaintiff
and Defendant Judith B. Kleinman as trustee of the Neil H. and Judith B. Kleinman
Trust dated March 6, 1998 (“Kleinman”) oppose[1]
and City replies. 
            
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on
Kleinman’s evidentiary objection 2 as the evidence has no effect on the ruling
herein. Evidentiary objection 1 is not clear as to what evidence is at issue,
but merely states the grounds for objection.
 
The Court rules as follows on
City’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence:
1.    
Overruled.
2.    
Overruled. 
3.    
Overruled. 
4.    
Overruled. 
5.    
Sustained. 
6.    
Sustained.
7.    
Sustained. 
8.    
Sustained. 
9.    
Overruled. 
 
The Court declines to rule on
City’s objections to Kleinman’s evidence, except to the extent that the
objections duplicate objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages,
or an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)  As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element, or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520)
 
“On a
summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences
favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the
evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)          
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by
statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition
of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and
either:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿¿¿
 
Government Code section 835 sets out the
exclusive conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused
by a dangerous condition of public property. (Metcalf v. County of San
Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129 [citing Brown v. Poway Unified
School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829]; see also Zelig v. County of Los
Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.) 
 
To establish a claim of dangerous condition on public property, a
plaintiff must prove: (1) that the defendant owned or controlled the property;
(2) that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury;
(3) that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the
kind of injury that occurred; (4) that defendant created the condition or had
notice of the dangerous condition for a long enough time to have protected
against it; (5) that plaintiff was harmed; and (6) that the dangerous condition
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (Gov. Code, § 835;
CACI No. 1100.)  Consequently, a public
entity is only liable for a dangerous condition of property if it either
creates the condition or has actual or constructive notice of the
condition.  (Gov Code §835(b).) 
 
A. Actual or
Constructive Notice
 
A public entity has actual notice of a dangerous condition
if it had actual knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should
have known of its dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2(a).)  “To
establish actual notice, ‘[t]here must be some evidence that the employees had
knowledge of the particular dangerous condition in question’; ‘it is not enough
to show that the [public entity's] employees had a general knowledge’ that the
condition can sometimes occur. [Citation.]”  (Martinez v. City of Beverly
Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519 [citing State of California v.
Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 396, 399].) 
 
A public entity has constructive notice of a dangerous
condition only if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for
such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity,
in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its
dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b).)  On the issue of due
care, admissible evidence includes, but is not limited to evidence of whether
the condition and its dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection
system that was reasonably adequate or whether the public entity maintained and
operated an inspection system with due care and did not discover the
condition.  (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b)(1)-(2).)  “Whether the dangerous
condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period of time
are threshold elements to establish a claim of constructive notice.”  (Heskel v. City of San
Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 317.)  “Where the plaintiff fails to
present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, his claim is
deficient as a matter of law.”  (Ibid.)  “Although constructive notice of a defect may
be imputed to a public entity that fails to have a ‘reasonably adequate’
inspection system [citation omitted], constructive notice will not be
imputed if the defect is not sufficiently obvious [citation omitted].” (Martinez,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at 520 [emphasis in original].) “[W]hether a
nontrivial defect is sufficiently obvious, conspicuous, and notorious that a
public entity should be charged with knowledge of the defect for its failure to
discover it depends upon all of the existing circumstances. Those circumstances
include (1) the location, extent, and character of the use of the walk or, more
generally, the public property in question, which looks to both its intended
use for travel as well as the actual frequency of travel in the area, and (2)
the magnitude of the problem of inspection, and more specifically, the
practicability and cost of inspection weighed against the likelihood and
magnitude of the potential danger to which failure to inspect would give rise.
(Id. at 521 [cleaned up].)  
 
Although the conspicuousness of the condition and the
length of time it existed are normally questions of fact for resolution by the
jury, they may be resolved as matter of law where the plaintiff's evidence as
to either element is legally insufficient. (Kotronakis v. City & County
of San Francisco (1961) 192 Cal.App.2d 624, 629 [jury verdict for plaintiff
reversed where there was no evidence the puddle of vomit in which plaintiff
slipped had been on the sidewalk longer than overnight]; Heskel v. City of San
Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 318-319, 321 [summary judgment proper
where plaintiff failed to provide evidence to rebut the City's showing the
condition was not obvious].)  
 
Here, the parties agree that the incident took place on a warm and
sunny day on August 4, 2021. Plaintiff, 28-year-old at the time, was working
for Diamond Environmental Services picking up Porta-potties with a flatbed
truck in the City of Pasadena. (UMF 1.) To perform his duties, Plaintiff parked
his flatbed truck in a residential area. (UMF 3.) Once that occurred, Plaintiff
unfolded the rear liftgate and began stepping down the ladder attached to the
passenger side of the truck. (UMF 4.) Plaintiff then stepped down to the curb
in front of 466 Alpine Street with his left foot and encountered a defective
part of the curb. (UMF 5.) Plaintiff then twisted his ankle. (UMF 6.) 
 
            City argues that Plaintiff cannot
show that it owned and controlled the subject curb where the incident took
place. City sets forth the following additional facts:
 
-       
The
subject curb is located on a driveway apron, which is private property and not
owned nor controlled by Defendant City. (UMF 9.) 
-       
The curb
was also subsequently repaired by the resident of that property at 466 Alpine
Street. (UMF 10.)
 
In support of its argument that City did not own or control the subject
curb, City produces the deposition testimony of Brent Maue, the City’s
designated person most qualified. Maue testified that “[s]ince the issue is
located on the driveway apron, the City considers that to be private property
and the responsibility of the property that the driveway serves.” (Def. Exh. C,
Maue Depo. 20:16-21.) He further testified that a “Mr. Wong” did not tell him
“anything further, other than he indicated it was already fixed. And once it
was determined it was a driveway issue, the issue was kind of out of the City’s
hands. Not the City’s responsibility.” (See Def., Exh. C, Maue Depo. 22:22-23:8.)
The photographs shown in Plaintiff’s deposition which purport to show the
broken piece of curb are adjacent to the driveway apron, and different from both
the driveway apron and the parkway. (See Def. Exh. B, Mora Depo., Exhibit A.)
Defendant provides no basis for the City’s conclusion that “the City considers
that to be private property.”[2]
Therefore, City fails to meet its initial burden.  
 
            Next, City argues that it had no
notice of the alleged defect. City sets forth the following additional facts:
 
-       
Defendant
City received no reports or complaints regarding the subject curb at 466 Alpine
Street in the City of Pasadena prior to the date of the incident in this case.
(UMF 11.) 
-       
Defendant
City maintains a database with respect to claims and lawsuits submitted against
it regarding death, injury to person, or damage to personal property resulting
from alleged activities of Defendant City. (UMF 12.) 
-       
Such
claims and lawsuits against Defendant City include all alleged incidents
occurring at or near 466 Alpine Street in the City of Pasadena, California.
(UMF 13.) 
-       
All hard
copy claims and all lawsuits submitted to Defendant City regarding death,
injury to person, or damage to personal property resulting from alleged
activities of Defendant City are entered into the database by Defendant City
employees in the regular course of business. (UMF 14.) 
-       
Since
March 2022, claimants may also submit claims into the database through an
electronic claim submission portal. (UMF 15.) 
-       
It was
and is the regular practice of Defendant City to record and maintain such
information. (UMF 16.) 
-       
Defendant
City has no record of any open claims or lawsuits that occurred from 1979, or
any closed claims or lawsuits within ten years from the date of closure, to the
date of the alleged incident on January 25, 2022 regarding any claims or
lawsuit of injuries at or near the sidewalk at 466 Alpine Street in the City of
Pasadena, California, other than the incident involving Plaintiff in this
matter. (UMF 17.) 
-       
There
had been no complaints or any work order generated for the location of the
alleged incident before August 4, 2022. (UMF 18.) 
 
While City presents some evidence that it had no actual notice of the defect,
through its database of city complaints and past claims, City does not meet its
initial burden to show that the defect was not obvious or did not exist for a
sufficient amount of time. City presents Plaintiff’s deposition testimony and
photographs to argue that the dangerous condition was a curb that broke when
Plaintiff stepped on it. However, there is a triable issue of fact regarding
the condition of the curb prior to Plaintiff stepping on it, construing all
reasonable inferences in favor of Plaintiff. Plaintiff testified that he
“remember[ed] it breaking off” but did not remember “if it was intact.” (Def.
Exh. D; Plaintiff’s Depo. at 33:2-9.) City presents no evidence regarding how
the curb appeared prior to Plaintiff breaking the curb,[3]
and therefore no evidence is presented regarding the obviousness of the
condition.[4]
 
Even if City met its burden to
show the absence of a triable issue of fact that there was no actual or
constructive notice, City provides no facts showing that it did not create the
condition. Therefore, because section 835 requires a showing that City created
the condition or had actual or constructive notice of the condition, City fails
to dispose of the entire action. (Gov. Code, § 835 subds. (a), (b).) Additionally,
the issue of notice does not appear to be an enumerated basis for summary
adjudication. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, City of Pasadena’s motion for Summary Judgment or
adjudication is DENIED.
 
City of Pasadena shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling
and file proof of service of such.
 


