 Case Number:  22STCV31117    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV31117




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant County of Los Angeles Further Responses to Request for Production
  of Documents Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Kelajae Kareem McClain 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  County of Los Angeles 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff Kelajae Kareem McClain (“Plaintiff”)
served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One on Defendant County of Los
Angeles (“Defendant”). (Martin Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) 
 
On February 12, 2024, Defendant served responses. (Martin Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. 2.) Plaintiff asserted the responses were deficient and attempted to meet
and confer. 
 
On June 7, 2024, the parties participated in an informal discovery
conference (“IDC”) regarding the various discovery motions that Plaintiff filed.
The issues were not resolved, but the moving party was instructed to continue
the remaining motions and schedule additional IDCs for each. (Min. Order,
6/7/24.) 
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Defendant opposes
and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. There is no
indication in the record that Plaintiff filed an IDC statement with the Court
or scheduled an IDC for this particular motion, in accordance with the Court’s
June 7, 2024 order. As a result, no IDC has taken place.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff is ordered to schedule IDCs and reschedule the hearing dates on the
motion.
 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.