 Case Number:  22STCV18097    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV18097




MOTION


Motion
  to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Dermatology & Laser Medical Center, Inc.  




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            On June 2, 2022, Plaintiff Marzia
D’Orlando (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Alex Khadavi, MD,
Encino Dermatology & Laser Medical Center, Thousand Oaks Dermatology &
Laser Medical Center, and Does 1 to 50 for medical battery, medical negligence,
strict products liability, and negligence. 
 
            On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging injuries from a medical
procedure.
 
            Defendant Dermatology & Laser Medical
Center, Inc. (erroneously sued as Encino Dermatology &
Laser Medical Center; Thousand Oaks Dermatology & Laser Medical Center) now
moves to strike portions of the FAC claiming exemplary and punitive damages. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A.   
Punitive Damages 
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of
pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws,
rules or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is
used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from
judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson
v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City
& County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911,
1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual
representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a
motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof
– in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike
demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co.
(1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes
the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court
to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)    
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests.  The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be
found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)  The statute’s reference to despicable
conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage
awards.”  (Ibid.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has
been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with
crime.’”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with
knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and
deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop
Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149,
1155.) 
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53,
63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to
justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v.
United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory
allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Lastly, “[t]he mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must
there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
 
 
B.
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.13 states in relevant part, the following:
 
“In any
action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care
provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or
other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the
filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the
party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant
to Section 3294 of the Civil Code. The court shall not grant a motion allowing
the filing of an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages if
the motion for such an order is not filed within two years after the complaint
or initial pleading is filed or not less than nine months before the date the
matter is first set for trial, whichever is earlier.”
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a).) 
 
“For the
purposes of this section, ‘health care provider’ means any person licensed or
certified pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business
and Professions Code, or licensed pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act,
or the Chiropractic Initiative Act, or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5
(commencing with Section 1440) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code; and
any clinic, health dispensary, or health facility, licensed pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200) of the Health and Safety Code. ‘Health
care provider’ includes the legal representatives of a health care provider.
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.13, subd. (b).) 
 
            Section 425.13 “establishes a
procedure for claiming punitive damages in certain cases.” (Central
Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th
181, 186.) Section 425.13 can apply to both intentional torts and negligence. (Id.
at 192.) Accordingly, “[t]he allegations that identify the nature and cause of
a plaintiff's injury must be examined to determine whether each is directly
related to the manner in which professional services were provided. Thus, a
cause of action against a health care provider for battery predicated on
treatment exceeding or different from that to which a plaintiff consented is
governed by section 425.13 because the injury arose out of the manner in which
professional services are provided. By contrast, a cause of action against a
health care provider for sexual battery would not, in most instances, fall
within the statute because the defendant's conduct would not be directly
related to the manner in which professional services were rendered.” (Id.)
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
“Before filing a motion to strike . . .
the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose
of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to
be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a).)  If no agreement is reached, the moving party shall file and serve
with the motion to strike a declaration stating either: (1) the means by which
the parties met and conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement,
or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and
confer request or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
According to the Declaration of Lusine
Arshakyan, Defendant’s counsel, states the following: “On July 26, 2024, I
spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the punitive damages claim and asked
that they be withdrawn, however, her counsel refused and sent an email with
purported authority supporting a claim for punitive damages.” (Arshakyan Decl.
¶ 9, Exh. E.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is met. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Defendant
seeks to strike the following from the FAC:
 

Pg. 7,
     ln. 8-10, para. 22, “As a proximate and direct result, Plaintiff has
     sustained and will sustain damages according to proof at trial.  Plaintiff further requests punitive and
     exemplary damages in an amount according to proof at the time of trial.”
Pg. 14,
     Prayer For Relief, item no. 4, “As to the First and Third Causes of
     Action, for punitive and exemplary damages in an amount according to proof
     at the time of trial.”

 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiff
consented to allow Defendants “to surgically implant hyaluronic acid dermal
fillers identified as JUVEDERM in her face and buttocks area at the hands of
ALEX KHADAVI, M.D., it was understood by plaintiff . . . that the defendants
would employ the basic and well known protocols related to any surgery
including verification that the injectable foreign objects were in-fact 100%
hyaluronic acid and/or JUVEDERM Voluma as promised and not a silicone-type
substance.” (FAC ¶ 15.) 
 
The FAC alleges that Defendant
is a medical business. (FAC ¶ 4-5.)
 
Plaintiff alleges she would
not have consented to the procedure had defendants informed her they intended
to implant a silicon-type substance. (FAC ¶ 15.) She underwent dermal filler
surgery on in September 2020, November 2020, and March 2021 which was performed
by Alex Khadavi, M.D. and medical staff with Encino Dermatology & Laser
Medical Center. (Id. ¶ 16, 27.) As a result of this, Plaintiff suffered
injuries. (Id. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff also alleges the silicon substance was
defective. (Id. ¶ 33.) Additionally, Plaintiff states that defendants “knew
that plaintiff could not reasonably discover the use of a silicone-type
material and continued to obfuscate, hide, misrepresent and deflect any
knowledge of the true facts until plaintiff’s discovery on November 1, 2021.” (Id.
¶ 36.) 
 
Defendant argues that the
punitive damages claim is inapplicable to Defendant, because it is a health
care provider, and Plaintiff failed to follow the procedure in Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13 before including the punitive damages claim.
 
Although
Defendant states it is alleged to be a health care provider, it fails to cite
where the FAC alleges that. (See Motion, 9; FAC ¶ 4-5.) Defendant also fails to
set forth judicially noticeable facts that it is a health care provider within
the meaning of section 425.13. 
 
On the
other hand, the allegations in the FAC suggest that Defendant is a health
facility. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition and fails to set forth any
basis for why section 425.13 does not apply. Even if the section did not apply,
the FAC fails to set forth sufficient facts that Defendant engaged in malice,
oppression, or fraud. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to file
a motion to amend the complaint. The motion must address Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.13. Any such motion must be filed within 15 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 