 Case Number:  22STCV17326    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17326




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Reconsideration of Plaintiff’s Motion to Re-Open Discovery 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Long Beach Unified School
  District, Shayon Stamper, Virginia Divers, Jason Heesch, and Saul Hernandez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Kysean Ferreira  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 19, 2024, a hearing
for a motion to reopen discovery, filed by Plaintiff Kysean Ferreira (“Plaintiff”), was
scheduled to be heard. Due to system-wide connectivity issues that impacted the
Court's ability to conduct business, the Court, on its own, continued the
motion to July 30, 2024. (Min. Order, 7/19/24.) Notice of the continuation was
mailed to the parties. (Certificate of Mailing, 7/19/24.) 
 
On July 30,
2024, the matter was called for hearing. There were no appearances for
Defendants Long Beach Unified School District, Shayon Stamper,
Virginia Divers, Jason Heesch, and Saul Hernandez (“Defendants”), and the
tentative ruling, granting the motion to reopen discovery for the limited
purpose of conducting the depositions of Jason Heesch and Renny Chu, was
granted. (Min. Order, 7/30/24.) 
 
Defendants now move the Court for reconsideration of the July 30, 2024
order under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008(a), arguing they had no notice
of the hearing. Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent
part:   
 
“(a) When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.  
 
… 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a),
(b), (e).)   
 
A motion for
reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new
or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)
However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party
seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information
must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of
having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also
to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new
or different information earlier…”].)¿¿A disagreement with a ruling is not a
new fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) Additionally, the new or
different fact or circumstance cannot be “wholly collateral” to the merits of
the initial motion. (Id. [“While not denigrating the assistance that
oral argument can provide to a court, the fact that respondent intended to
request that the court entertain oral argument with respect to the initial
motions is clearly collateral to the merits of the motions. Again, respondent
did not present any facts or authorities relating to the merits of the
underlying motion that were not considered by the trial court when it issued
its initial orders.”].) 
 
If the above
statutory requirements are met, reconsideration should be granted. However, a
court is not required to change its decision upon reconsideration. (Corns v.
Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.) Although parties may move for
reconsideration only as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, the
statute “do[es] not limit the court's ability, on its own motion, to reconsider
its prior interim orders so it may correct its own errors.” (Le Francois v.
Goel¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, this motion
is timely because it was filed on August 1, 2024, within ten days from the July
30, 2024 order. 
 
Defendants’ counsel contends that she
appeared remotely for the original July 19, 2024 hearing, but was never told
that the hearing was rescheduled. (Evanstad Decl. ¶ 4.) Thereafter, Defendants’
counsel asserts that starting on July 22, 2024, and continuing every business
day, she checked the Court’s docket but did not see the re-scheduled hearing. Defendants
admit that on July 30, 2024, she received the tentative ruling from Plaintiff’s
counsel on July 30, 2024. (Id. ¶ 5.) However, counsel contends the email
did not state the date and time of the hearing, and that when counsel asked for
that information, Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. (Id., Exh. A.) Counsel
asserts she again checked the Court’s docket, but saw no hearings on the
“Future Hearings” tab. She also contends her firm checked their mail but found
nothing in relation to this hearing. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendants assert they did not
learn of the hearing until July 31, 2024, after it was heard. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends
that Defendants had notice because the copy of the tentative ruling, that was
emailed on July 30, 2024, contained the hearing date at the top: “July 30,
2024.” (Scott Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) However, the Court notes the tentative ruling
below also contained the old hearing date of July 19, 2024. 
 
Even if the lack of oral argument
was a new fact or circumstance, the result would not change.[1] Defendants
argue the two depositions cannot be completed before trial and are not
essential to the case. Defendants argue that the two individuals would not be
available until August 27, when school commences. They also contend that the
depositions should be limited to two hours each and that Defendants should be
allowed to designate a supplemental expert. First, Defendants fail to show that
they could not set forth the August 27 argument in their opposition papers with
reasonable diligence; additionally, it appears that argument is now moot since
school has commenced. Secondly, Defendants fail to show how the supplemental
expert request is related to the depositions of Jason Heesch and Renny Chu
which were the subjects of the motion to reopen.[2] Additionally,
Defendants fail to show diligence in setting forth the argument that expert
discovery had commenced, and they would be prejudiced by re-taking expert
depositions in response to new facts learned from the two witnesses. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion for Reconsideration. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


