 Case Number:  23STCV16555    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV16555




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion for an Order that Defendant’s Requests for Admissions, Set One be Deemed
  Admitted 
(2)
  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(3)
  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(4)
  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Demand for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of West Hollywood 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Defendant City of West Hollywood (“Defendant”)
now moves for an order to deem admitted Requests for Admission, Set One and to
compel verified responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Production,
Set One propounded on Plaintiff Jameelah Budhan (“Plaintiff”). Defendant also
seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Requests
for Admission
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On March 12, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s former
counsel’s motion to be relieved. Notice of the order was served on Plaintiff
and filed March 27, 2024. Plaintiff is now self-represented. 
 
Here, Defendant asserts that it served Requests for
Admission, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Demand for Production, Set One on
Plaintiff on May 20, 2024. (Ferrante-Alan Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Responses were
due June 24, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4.) No responses were served. 
 
However, the proofs of service show Plaintiff was not
mailed notice of these motions to the address in the Order Relieving Counsel. Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
requires “written notice” of a motion including the date, time and location of
the hearing on a motion. A moving party’s failure to serve the notice of motion
and moving papers on a non-moving party violates the basic principles of
procedural due process under the federal and state constitutions – notice and
an opportunity to be heard.¿ (Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co. (1982) 455
U.S. 422, 428 [minimum due process requires notice and opportunity for hearing
appropriate to the nature of the case]; Horn v. County of Ventura (1979)
24 Cal.3d 605, 612 [due process principles require reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard].)  
 
            Because the proofs of service do not
show that Plaintiff was mailed notice of these motions to the correct address,
the motions are denied as procedurally defective. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to deem admitted Request
for Admissions, Set One is DENIED without prejudice. Defendant’s Motions to
Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,
and Demand for Production, Set One are DENIED without
prejudice.
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 