 Case Number:  23PSCV00076    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Amalia Huerta
v. Maria de la Luz Huerta Herrera, et al. 
Motion
to be Relieved as Plaintiff’s Counsel 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES the motion to be relieved as Plaintiff’s counsel without
prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a real property dispute. On January 10, 2023, plaintiff Amalia
Huerta (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Maria de la Luz Huerta
Herrera, All Persons Unknown Claiming Any Legal or Equitable Right, Title,
Estate, or Interest in the Property Adverse to Plaintiff’s Title, and Does 1
through 20, alleging causes of action for quiet title, partition, constructive
trust, and resulting trust. 
On
January 11, 2024, Steven Candelas, on behalf of John F. Mansour for Mansour Law
Group, APLC, filed a motion to be relieved as Plaintiff’s counsel. The motion
is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The Court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.)
A motion to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council
Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all
parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Steven
Candelas, on behalf of John F. Mansour for Mansour Law Group, APLC seeks to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff on the grounds that there has been a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. (Candelas Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court
finds this to be sufficient grounds for withdrawal. 
A breakdown in the attorney-client relationship is grounds for
allowing the attorney to withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188
Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) Grounds for permitting an attorney to withdraw from
representation also include the client’s conduct that “renders it unreasonably
difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]” (Cal.
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) 
However, Counsel did not file all of the required forms for this
motion. Rule 3.1362, subdivision (c), requires the supporting declaration to be
submitted on Judicial Council Form MC-052. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subd. (c).) Counsel’s supporting declaration was submitted on standard pleading
paper, which would be fine in other motions, but not in a motion to be relieved
as counsel. 
The Court also notes some other issues, such as Counsel failing to
provide Plaintiff’s address in the motion. (See Form MC-051.) Additionally,
while the Court infers that Counsel intended this motion to apply to the entire
law firm of Mansour Law
Group, APLC and to include both Steven Candelas and John F. Mansour in the
withdrawal, Counsel only listed John F. Mansour as the withdrawing attorney.
(See Form MC-051, ¶ 1.) The Court also notes that the proof of service filed in
conjunction with this motion misspells Plaintiff’s name. (Proof of Service
(1/11/24).) The Court further notes that the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
To Be Relieved As Counsel lists the client’s address as the last known address.
(Order, Form MC-053, ¶ 6.) However, Counsel’s declaration states that Ms.
Huerta’s current address has been confirmed. (Candelas Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion without
prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion to be relieved as Plaintiff’s counsel
without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.