  Case Number:  21PSCV00200    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Caroline  Rodriguez v. Adrian Martinez  Plaintiff’s  Motion for Attorney’s Fees  TENTATIVE  RULING  The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees in the reduced amount of $63,851.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract action. On March 9, 2021, plaintiff Caroline  Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Adrian Martinez (Defendant)  and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for breach of contract and common  counts. On April 24, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff  and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for usury violation, violation  of Civil Code section 1671, reformation of contract, declaratory relief, and  accounting. On September 25, 2023, the Court entered judgment in favor of  Plaintiff on both the complaint and the cross-complaint.  On December 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for attorney’s  fees. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  “In any action on a contract, where the contract  specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to  enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the  prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the  contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or  not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs.”  (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)  The party seeking fees and costs bears the burden to show  "the fees incurred were allowable, were reasonably necessary to the  conduct of the litigation, and were reasonable in amount." (Nightingale  v. Hyundai Motor America (1994) 31 Cal.App.4th 99, 104.) To satisfy this  burden, evidence and descriptions of billable tasks must be presented in  sufficient detail, enabling the court to evaluate whether the case was  overstaffed, the time attorneys spent on specific claims, and the  reasonableness of the hours expended. (Lunada Biomedical v. Nunez (2014)  230 Cal.App.4th 459, 486-487.)  “A trial court assessing attorney fees begins with a touchstone or  lodestar figure, based on the ‘careful compilation of the time spent and  reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney… involved in the presentation  of the case.” (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165  Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.) “The reasonableness of attorney fees is within the  discretion of the trial court, to be determined from a consideration of such  factors as the nature of the litigation, the complexity of the issues, the experience  and expertise of counsel and the amount of time involved. [Citation.] The court  may also consider whether the amount requested is based upon unnecessary or  duplicative work. [Citation.]” (Wilkerson v. Sullivan (2002) 99  Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)  DISCUSSION            Plaintiff  seeks $118,068 in attorney’s fees based on Plaintiff obtaining judgments in her  favor on both the complaint and the cross-complaint. The basis for this  recovery of attorney’s fees is the following language from the underlying  promissory note:  If  any payment under this Note is not received when due, or upon another Event of  Default, after the expiration of any notice and grace period required by  applicable law, and Lender declares an Event of Default, then, at Lender’s  option, the following will become immediately due and payable without notice of  dishonor or presentment: … all sums advanced and costs and expenses incurred by  Lender in connection with this Loan, including attorneys’ fees and any other  costs incurred by Lender in enforcing Borrower’s obligations under this Note.  (Compl., Ex.  “A”.)  Plaintiff  contends that Defendant’s actions throughout this action substantially  increased the cost of litigation and the resolution of this matter, such as  unnecessarily protracting Plaintiff’s efforts to effect service of process,  making unsubstantiated claims of payment, and delaying the motion for summary  judgment on multiple occasions. Plaintiff further contends that the hourly rate  of $650.00 for her trial counsel, Mr. William Chapman, is reasonable given his  over 40 years of experience in business litigation and handling of trials, and  that Mr. Chapman’s rate is comparable to rates of other attorneys in the  community. Plaintiff's  counsel submitted a summary of time entries from billing records that reflect  the actual time and clear descriptions of services performed in connection with  litigating this case. (Chapman Decl., ¶ 27 and Ex. E.)  First,  the Court notes that Defendant did not oppose this motion, which the Court  construes as a tacit admission that Plaintiff’s arguments are meritorious. (Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the  Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial  Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)  Second, the Court finds Mr. Chapman’s rate and the rates of the  others who assisted with Plaintiff’s litigation of this action to be reasonable.  (Chapman Decl., ¶¶ 19-26, Ex. E.) A  "reasonable" hourly rate is the prevailing rate charged by attorneys  of similar skill and experience in the relevant community. (PLCM Group, Inc.  v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) Here, counsel Chapman points to  cases where similar hourly rates of other attorneys were approved in cases  brought in Los Angeles county. (Motion, p. 5:16-24.) “The courts  repeatedly have stated that the trial court is in the best position to value  the services rendered by the attorneys in his or her courtroom [citation], and  this includes the determination of the hourly rate that will be used in the  lodestar calculus. [Citation.]” (569 E. Cnty. Boulevard LLC v.  Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 426, 436–437.)  “In making its calculation, the court may rely on its own knowledge and  familiarity with the legal market, as well as the experience, skill, and  reputation of the attorney requesting fees [citation], the difficulty or  complexity of the litigation to which that skill was applied [citations], and  affidavits from other attorneys regarding prevailing fees in the community and  rate determinations in other cases. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 437.) Based  on the Court’s own experience, Mr. Chapman’s hourly rate appears a little high  but not excessive and in the range of fee awards by Los Angeles County courts  for business litigation cases.  Third, after reviewing the billing records, the Court  finds that some tasks appear to be duplicative and others primarily clerical or  administrative relating to e-filing/serving documents and calendaring matters.  In addition, Defendant should not have to pay for 2.9 hours spent on anticipated  collection efforts and correcting counsel’s own errors. Finally, the Court  finds excessive and unsupported the block billed entry of 73.5 hours referencing  counsel’s home computer. Thus, the Court finds that the amount of $54,217 was  not reasonably incurred. The Court finds the remainder of the time spent was  commensurate with the tasks and/or was reasonably incurred to prosecute this  action, having spanned approximately three years, which  included, among other things, a motion for summary judgment that was continued  multiple times. (Chapman Decl., ¶¶ 10-17.) Accordingly, the Court finds  that the amount of $63,851 was reasonable in light of this  litigation.  CONCLUSION  Based  on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees in  the reduced amount of $63,851.                  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.