 Case Number:  23STCP04112    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  82 Stanford Neighborhood Association,
LLC,            Case No. 23STCP04112
                                                                                                
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: August 13, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse    
                                                                                    Department:
82 
City
of Los Angeles                                                   Judge: Stephen I.
Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting Motion to
Dismiss
 
            Petitioner
Stanford Neighborhood Association, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed this petition for
writ of mandate on behalf of nine property owners/lessees on Stanford Avenue in
Los Angeles, California.  Petitioner
alleged that three properties on the same street are running an unlicensed and
illegal concrete grinding operation (the “violative properties”).  Petitioner alleged that the City of Los
Angeles (“Respondent” or the “City”) issued notices of code violations against
the violative properties, which included an order to discontinue their concrete
grinding operations.  Petitioner alleged that
the owners and tenants of the violative properties have not cured the
violations and sought a writ of mandate requiring the City to “enforce its
order to cease operations.”   
 
            The
City demurred to the petition, and the court sustained the demurrer.  The court found as follows:
 
The court is sympathetic to the plight of the residents
because the violative properties allegedly cause contamination throughout the
neighborhood from the concrete particulate. 
However, the court only has authority to require the City to exercise a
ministerial duty, which is a duty that must be performed in a “prescribed
manner” and without discretion.  Petitioner
identifies no ministerial duty at issue. 
To the contrary, “an agency’s decision not to prosecute or
enforce, whether through civil or criminal process, is a decision generally
committed to an agency’s absolute discretion.” 
(Heckler
v. Chaney (1985) 470 U.S. 821, 831.)  The City retains discretion whether, when,
and how to enforce its orders.  Because
Petitioner challenges the manner in which the City exercises its discretion in
enforcement matters, the court has no authority to issue a writ because doing
so would violate the separation of powers doctrine.  Instead, Petitioner’s remedy lies with those
at the City who have input into enforcement decision.  Therefore, the court has no choice but to
sustain the demurrer.  
 
(See Court’s Order, dated August 13, 2024.)  
 
At
Petitioner’s counsel’s request, the court granted leave to amend to assert a
claim under the theory that a failure to exercise discretion in itself is an
abuse of discretion, as well as any non-writ causes of action.  (See id. at 9.)  At Petitioner’s counsel’s request, the court
ordered Petitioner’s counsel to file a first amended complaint within 45 days.  (See ibid.)  The court provided notice: “If Petitioner’s
counsel fails to do so, absent good cause, this case will be dismissed with
prejudice.”  (Ibid.) 
 
            Petitioner’s
counsel did not file an amended petition and/or complaint before the deadline.  The City filed a motion to dismiss on this
basis under Code of Civil Procedure section 581(f).  Petitioner has not cured the defect or filed
an opposition to the motion.  Based upon
the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court grants the City’s motion to
dismiss under Code of Civil Procedure section 581(f).
 
            2.         The court orders this case dismissed
with prejudice.
 
            3.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment forthwith.
 
            4.         Counsel for the City shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated: 
November 8, 2024                                         _____________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge  
 