 Case Number:  23STCV04342    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JESSICA
  MARGARITA MARTINEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JCKY PROPERTY INVESTMENT, LLC, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV04342
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
Date: August 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
JCKY PROPERTY INVESTMENT, LLC (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
 The motion is unopposed.  Any opposition was required to have been
filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  
 
BACKGROUND
             On February 28, 2023, Plaintiff Jessica
Margarita Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant.  On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) against Defendant.  
 
            On July 2, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion for judgment on the pleadings (the “Motion”), on the ground that
the FAC fails to plead sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant.  Plaintiff has not filed any
opposition to the Motion.
 
MEET AND CONFER
            Before filing a
motion for judgment on the pleadings, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person, by telephone or by video conference with the party who has filed the
pleading subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings and file a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
439(a).) However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to¿grant
or deny a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a)(4).) 
 
The
Declaration of Vivian Zambrano, attorney for Defendant, states that she “met
and conferred with Plaintiff regarding the instant (second) Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings via email and correspondence mailed via United States Postal
Service to Plaintiff’s address at 1211 W. 64th Street Los Angeles, CA 90044,
but that the parties have been unable to resolve the issues raised in this
Motion.  (Declaration of Vivian Zambrano
in Support of Motion, ¶¶ 13-14.) The Court notes that the means by which
Defendant’s counsel has attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff does not
sufficiently comply with the rules.  The
Court also notes, however, that the letter sent by Defendant to Plaintiff
indicates a phone number through which Defendant may be reached.  Thus, the Court will proceed to consider the
Motion nonetheless.  
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard 
            A defendant may
move for judgment on the pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that
defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(c)(1)(B).)¿¿¿ 
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings is analogous
to a general demurrer. (Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co. of
Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) 
Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the pleadings challenge the
legal sufficiency of the allegations, not their veracity.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿¿ 
¿ 
All facts alleged in the complaint are deemed
admitted, and the complaint is given a reasonable interpretation as a whole and
all parts in their context.  (Lance,
44 Cal.App.4th at 198.)  The court does
not, however, do so for “conclusions of law or fact, opinions, speculation, or
allegations contrary to law or [judicially noticed] facts…”  (Stevenson Real Estate Servs., Inc. v. CB
Richard Ellis Real Estate Servs., Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215,
1219-20.)¿ 
¿ 
Any defects must either appear on the face of the
pleading, or else be taken by judicial notice.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 316, 321-22.)  A motion for
judgment on the pleadings may be granted when, “under the state of the
pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Southern
California Edison Co. v. City of Victorville (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 218,
227.)¿ 
 
Timing 
            A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be brought by a defendant at
any time after the time to demur has expired and an answer has been filed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f)).  Unless a court orders otherwise, a motion for
judgment on the pleadings may not be made after entry of a pre-trial conference
order, (Cal. Rules of Court 3.720-3.730) or 30 days before the initial trial
date, whichever is later.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 438(e).  This case has not yet
been set for trial, and no pre-trial conference order was entered in this case.
 The Motion is, therefore,
timely.  
 
Motion
            In the Motion, Defendant
asserts that “the entire FAC, as pleaded, is so unclear as to render it
indecipherable.  The FAC is uncertain to
such a degree in fact, that it is impossible for Defendant to respond, as
Defendant cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what counts or claims are directed against it.”  (Motion, p. 6.)  As an example, Defendant points out that “Plaintiff
does not state the name of the party against whom any allegations are being
made”, and “invokes the Fair Housing Act of 1968 without providing any
supporting factual nexus.”  (Id.)
 
The Court finds that the FAC is vague or
unintelligible that the individual claims asserted against Defendant cannot be
assessed. 
 
Leave to Amend 
When a demurrer is sustained, the Court determines
whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment. ¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318).¿ When a
plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon which his cause of action
is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend his
complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his right to maintain his
action on the ground that his pleadings were defective for lack of
particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) ¿Accordingly,
California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to demonstrate the manner
in which they can amend their pleadings to state their claims against a
defendant.¿¿(Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of
leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on
its face it is incapable of amendment.¿ [Citation.]¿ Liberality in permitting
amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been
given."  (Angie M. v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
Plaintiff should thus endeavor to clarify her
allegations with greater specificity and factual detail.  The Court will therefore grant leave to amend the
FAC so as to give Plaintiff an opportunity to sufficiently state her causes of
action.  Plaintiff should understand, however, that if she does not
correct the issues identified in this Motion with the next amended complaint,
the Court may grant either a subsequent demurrer or motion for judgment on the
pleadings without leave to amend, so she should do her best to correct these
problems with her pleading.
 
RULING
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion is GRANTED with 30
days leave to amend.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 8th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



