 Case Number:  23STCP04009    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  82 Board
of Trustees for the Hacienda La Puente Unified School District v.
Personnel
Commission for the Hacienda La Puente Unified School District
Jose
Martinez, Real Party in Interest
 
Case
No. 23STCP04009
Related
to Case No. 23STCP04413
 
[Tentative]
Order on Petitioner’s Motion to Stay
[Tentative]
Order on Real Party in Interest’s Motion to Compel Compliance
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            The
Board of Trustees for the Hacienda La Puente Unified School District (the
“District” or “Petitioner”) terminated Jose Martinez (“Martinez”), who worked
as a security guard at the school, after he failed to comply with a resolution
mandating all District employees be vaccinated against Covid-19 by October 15,
2021.  Martinez appealed his termination
to the Personnel Commission of the District. 
Following a hearing, the Personnel Commission adopted the recommendation
of the hearing officer and ordered Martinez’s reinstatement with backpay.  Petitioner filed a petition for writ of
mandate challenging that decision, and Martinez filed a separate petition for
writ of mandate (which is Case Number 23STCP04413) seeking a writ to compel the
District to comply with the hearing officer’s order and to amend the Personnel
Commission’s decision to include backpay for an additional period of time.  Now, both Petitioner and Martinez seek
provisional relief from this court. 
Petitioner filed an ex parte application (which the court treated as a
noticed motion) to stay the instant case pending resolution of a federal case
or, in the alternative, the court’s decision on the writs.  Martinez filed a motion to compel the
District to comply with the Personnel Commission’s order.  The court grants the Petitioner’s motion to
stay this case pending the outcome of the writ proceedings and therefore denies
Martinez’s motion.  The court denies
Petitioner’s motion to stay this case pending the outcome of the federal case,
as the court has no authority to do so under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(g).  
            
BACKGROUND 
 
             Martinez was employed by the District until May
5, 2022, when District terminated his employment for failure to comply with
District’s Covid-19 vaccine mandate policy. 
(Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶ 18.)  Martinez appealed the termination to the Personnel
Commission, which appointed a hearing officer to preside over an evidentiary
hearing.  (Id. ¶ 21.)  On August 7, 2023, the Personnel Commission
adopted the recommendations of the hearing officer and ordered District to
reinstate Martinez with full back pay and benefits from the date of his
termination.  (Id. ¶¶ 23-25; see
Martinez’s Verified Answer (“Ans.”) Exh. A.) 
The District and Board have not yet complied with the Personnel Commission’s
order.  (See Pet. and Ans.
generally.)  
 
            On
November 6, 2023, the District filed the instant petition for writ of mandate
challenging the Personnel Commission’s decision under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5.  On December 6, 2023,
Martinez filed his own petition for writ of mandate on December 6, 2023,
seeking to enforce the Personnel Commission’s decision under section 1085(a).  Martinez also challenged the Personnel
Commission’s decision not to award backpay for a limited period of time, per
section 1094.5.  
 
            On
March 25, 2024, Martinez filed his motion to compel compliance with the Personnel
Commission’s order of reinstate and backpay. 
The next day, the District filed an ex parte application to stay this
matter pending a decision on the writ, as well as resolution of a federal case
challenging the District’s failure to grant exemptions from its vaccination
requirement.  The court (Beckloff, J.)
elected to treat the District’s ex parte application as a noticed motion.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The court “may
stay the operation of the administrative order or decision pending the judgment
of the court, or until the filing
of a notice of appeal from the judgment or until the expiration of the time for
filing the notice, whichever occurs first.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(g).)  “However, no such stay shall be imposed or
continued if the court is satisfied that it is against the public
interest.”  (Ibid.)  The administrative stay provision of section
1094.5(g) “requires the superior court to weigh the public interest in each
individual case.” (Sterling v. Santa
Monica Rent Control Bd. (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 176, 187.)  Pursuant to section 1094.5(g), the court is
not required to consider Board’s or Martinez’s likelihood of success on the
merits.  (See Canyon Crest Conservancy
v. County of Los Angeles (2020) 46 Cal. App. 5th 398, 406-07.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.         The Court Does Not Consider the Merits
of the Underlying Petitions 
 
In reply, Martinez
argues that the stay provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(h)(1)—which
require a reasonable likelihood of success on the merits—apply to the
District.  Section 1094.5(h)(1) states
that the court “may stay the
operation of the administrative order or decision of any licensed hospital or
any state agency made after a hearing required by statute to be conducted under
the Administrative Procedure Act….” 
Martinez does not show that a school district is a state agency within
the meaning of section 1094.5(h).  None
of the cases cited by Martinez support that proposition.  Notably, a school district is defined as a
“local agency” pursuant to statute. 
(Gov. Code § 54951.)  That school
districts may operate as local agents of the state for purposes of public
schooling does not establish that school districts are state agencies.  Further, Martinez does not address
whether the administrative hearing was conducted under the Administrative
Procedures Act.  Finally, section
1094.5(h)(1) applies when a party impacted by a state agency’s order seeks a
stay.  Here, a local agency seeks to stay
a decision of its own Personnel Commission. 
Section 1094.5(h) does not apply in these circumstances.  
 
            Regardless, the court cannot
evaluate the merits of the parties’ respective writs at this stage.  Neither side provides a comprehensive
discussion of the Commission’s findings or the evidence in the administrative
record.  The parties also have not lodged
the certified administrative record.  In
an administrative mandate proceeding, “a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings” are not supported by the
evidence.  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)  In general,
“a hearing on a writ of administrative mandamus is conducted solely on the
record of the proceedings before the administrative agency.” (Toyota of Visalia, Inc. v. New Motor Vehicle
Bd. (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 872, 881; Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(e).)  Because Petitioner need not show a reasonable
likelihood of success on the merits, and because the court has not received the
administrative record or comprehensive briefing on the merits, the court does
not consider whether the District is likely to prevail on the underlying
petitions.   
 
            B.        A Stay is Consistent with the Public
Interest 
 
            The
District seeks to stay seeks to stay the Personnel Commission’s order pending
resolution of Plaintiff’s federal case or, in the alternative, until the court
decides the writ petitions.  The motion
for stay is brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(g), which only
authorizes a stay of the administrative order “pending the judgment of the
court, or until the filing of a notice of appeal from the judgment or until the
expiration of the time for filing the notice, whichever occurs first.”  The court lacks authority under the statute
to stay the Commission’s order for a different period of time, and Petitioner
cites no authority to the contrary. 
Accordingly, the court denies the motion to stay this case pending
resolution of the federal case and considers the motion only to the extent it
seeks a stay pending the court’s decision on the writs.  
 
            The District
seeks to stay the Personnel Commission’s order on the following grounds: (1) to
maintain the status quo “while competing lawsuits are allowed the opportunity to
be decided”; (2) to avoid harm to District and/or Martinez from paying backpay
to Martinez before a final determination of the merits of the District’s
petition; (3) to avoid harm to District’s employment interests and an employee
that was allegedly hired to fill the security officer position previously held
by Petitioner; and (4) because the Personnel Commission allegedly exceeded its
jurisdiction and abused its discretion in the administrative decision and
order.  (See Motion to Stay (“Mot.”) 3-8;
see also Pet. at 16 [discussing irreparable harm].)   
 
            The court is not persuaded that a
stay is necessitated by “competing lawsuits” because the two writs are related
and will be decided by the same judge, which prevents inconsistent
decisions.  Nor is the court persuaded by
the District’s argument that the Personnel Commission exceeded its jurisdiction
and abused its discretion, because the court does not consider likelihood of
success on the merits under section 1094.5(g). 
Nevertheless, the District’s remaining grounds favor a stay.  
 
            Absent a stay, the District would be
required to pay Martinez the backpay ordered by the Personnel Commission.  Because the cost of any backpay award will
ultimately be borne by taxpayers, there is a public interest in staying the
award of backpay until Petitioner’s challenge to the Commission’s order can be
adjudicated.  If the backpay were paid to
Martinez, and then the Commission’s order set aside, Board may need to pursue
additional legal or collection actions to recoup the backpay.  Those legal costs would also be borne by
taxpayers and it is uncertain whether Martinez could fully satisfy any adverse
judgment.  Martinez has not filed a
declaration or other evidence claiming any irreparable harm if the backpay
award is not stayed pending the court’s adjudication of the writ.  Notably, if the court affirms the
Commission’s order, Martinez would then be awarded backpay up to the time of
his reinstatement.  (Ans. Exh. A at 63.)  He may also be entitled to pre-judgment
interest.  (Civ. Code § 3287(a); San
Diego County Deputy Sheriffs Assn. v. San Diego County Sheriff’s Dept.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1086 [pursuant to section 3287(a), “when an
administrative agency determines an employee's employment was wrongfully
terminated, and reinstates the employee's employment with backpay, the agency
must include interest in the award of wrongfully withheld backpay”].)  Thus, the District demonstrates that a stay
would be in the public interest, and Martinez does not show that he would
suffer economic harm if the award of backpay is stayed.    
 
            Moreover, the court agrees that if a
stay is not granted, there would be prejudice “stemming from the premature enforcement
of a determination that may be later found to have been wrong.”  (Mot. 5, citing Daly v. San Bernardino
County Bd. of Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1030, 1035.)  A stay would preserve the status quo pending
the court’s decisions on the writs. 
Conversely, denying a stay would change the status quo and irreparably
harm District’s interests as an employer, necessitating personnel changes and
changes in enforcement of the District’s policies.  In this sense, a stay is in the public
interest.  Conversely, Martinez has not
filed a declaration explaining how he would be irreparably harmed if the
Commission’s order is stayed.  In fact,
the District’s counsel represents that “Martinez is currently on
disability and cannot work due to an injury,” and Martinez does dispute that
representation in his opposition or in a declaration.  (Mot. 8.) 
If Martinez cannot return to work immediately, he would not be harmed by
a stay of the order of reinstatement.   
 
            Finally, the court finds that a stay
would not be against the public interest because the only person impacted by a
stay is Martinez.  Any harm to him from a
stay of the Personnel Commission’s order is an individual one and does not
impact the public interests.[1]  
 
            C.        Martinez
is not Entitled to a Preliminary Mandatory Injunction 
 
            The court denies Martinez’s motion
to compel the District to comply with the Personnel Commission’s decision for
two reasons.  First, because the court
grants the District’s motion to stay that order, it necessarily denies
Martinez’s motion to enforce that order. 
Second, in the alternative, the court denies Martinez’s motion on the
merits.  
 
The trial on this administrative
writ petition will inquire into the validity of Personnel Commission’s
order.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(a),
(b).)  Thus, by seeking to compel
compliance with Commission’s order prior to trial, Martinez effectively seeks a
preliminary mandatory injunction.  (See Daly, supra, 11 Cal.5th
at 1050 [injunction is mandatory if it “command[s] the employer to take
affirmative steps to remedy an alleged legal violation”]; see also Davenport v. Blue Cross of Calif. (1997)
52 Cal.App.4th 435, 448 [“The general rule is that an injunction is
prohibitory if it requires a person¿to refrain from a particular act and
mandatory if it compels performance of an affirmative act that changes the
position of the parties.”].)  
 
The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo
pending a decision on the merits.  (Major v. Miraverde Homeowners Ass’n.
(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 618, 623.)  In
deciding whether or not to grant a preliminary injunction, the court looks to
two factors, including “(1) the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on
the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms that is likely to result from
the granting or denial of interim injunctive relief.”  (White
v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.) The factors are interrelated, with
a greater showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.)  The
party seeking the injunction bears the burden of demonstrating both a
likelihood of success on the merits and the occurrence of irreparable
harm.  (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.)
Irreparable harm may exist if the plaintiff can show an inadequate remedy at
law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a).)  “The granting of a mandatory
injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases
where the right thereto is clearly established.”  (Teachers Ins. &
Annuity Ass'n v. Furlotti (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1487,
1493.)  
 
As discussed, Martinez does not demonstrate a reasonable
likelihood of success on the merits.  Nor
does Martinez demonstrate irreparable harm. 
Martinez does not dispute that he cannot return to work anyway due to
his disability, and he has an adequate remedy to recover the backpay.  To the contrary, the balance of potential
harm favors the District.  Accordingly,
Martinez is not entitled to a preliminary mandatory injunction.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
            
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The District’s motion to stay is
granted in part and denied in part.
 
            2.         The court stays the Personnel
Commission’s decision pending the judgment of this court on the petitions for
writ of mandate in this case and Case Number 23STCP04413.
 
            3.         The court denies the District’s motion
to the extent it seeks a stay of the instant case pending resolution of the
federal action.
 
            4.         The court denies Martinez’s motion to
enforce compliance with the Personnel Commission’s decision.
 
            5.         Counsel for the District shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 


