  Case Number:  23STCP02491    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  82 Bel-Air Bay Club, Ltd.                                             Case
No. 23STCP02491
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: May 1, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
California
Coastal Commission                              Department: 82  
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
            Petitioner
Bel-Air Bay Club, Ltd. (“Petitioner” or the “BABC”) petitions for a writ of
ordinary mandate directing Respondent California Coastal Commission
(“Respondent” or the “Commission”) to set aside its decision (“Decision”)
denying Petitioner’s application for an exemption from the Commission’s coastal
development permit (“CDP”) requirements to replace a portion of a lanai terrace
structure (the “Lanai”) that is located on the beach at Petitioner’s club.  Petitioner contends that the Lanai was
damaged as a result of severe winter storms in January 2023, and sought an exemption
that applies to “the
replacement of any structure, other than a public works facility, destroyed by
a disaster” (the “Disaster Exemption”).  Respondent denied the application finding that the damage to
the Lanai was caused by normal wave action over many years.  The court reviews the Commission’s decision
under a deferential abuse of discretion standard.  Because the Commission’s decision was not arbitrary,
capricious, or entirely lacking in evidentiary support, the court denies the
petition.  
 

FACTUAL BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
            A.        The Bel-Air Bay Club and the Lanai 
 
            Petitioner owns a private beach club,
known as the Bel-Air Bay Club (the “Club”), with beachfront facilities along
the Pacific Coast Highway in the City of Los Angeles (“City”).  (Compendium of Exhibits (“COE”) Exh. T at
459.)  Petitioner built the facilities in
the 1920s and it has since improved and expanded them.  (Ibid.; see also Exh. P at
246-247.)  Beginning in the 1950s, with
City approvals and permits, Petitioner constructed a 4,822 square foot concrete
lanai structure (“Lanai”) located on the beach, seaward of the main
structure.  (Id. Exh. A at 18-53; Exh.
T at 459; Exh. U at 477.) 
 
            B.        Petitioner’s
Prior CDPs
 
In
November 1992, the Commission approved Petitioner’s CDP application “for the
use of heavy machinery on the beach to build sand berms for protection from
high tides and storms and to maintain the breach.”  (COE Exh. WW at 990.)  Subsequently, the Commission approved three
amendments to this CDP, extending the time frame for temporary sand berms to
November 2000. (COE Exh. HH, II, and JJ.) 
 
In
2004, Commission approved Petitioner’s application for a CDP to, among other
things, demolish part of the Bel Air Bay Club, construct certain new
facilities, and realign an existing sea wall and sandwall.  (COE Exh. Q at 274; see also Id. at Exh. P.)
The staff report referred to the Lanai as an existing “bar” and “terrace” area.
(Id., Ex. Q at 317, 332.)  
 
In 2018, the Commission approved
Petitioner’s application to “repair and reinforce” two existing groins on the
beach. (COE Exh. XX at 995.)  Between
December 2018 and December 2020, the Commission issued Petitioner four
emergency permits for temporary sand berms “to protect against wave uprush and
inundation of Club facilities during extreme high tide and/or swell Events.”
(COE Exh. M at 827.)  
 
In March 2021, Petitioner filed a permit
application for follow-up authorization of the temporary sand berms. (Ibid.)  The application initially included a request
to allow future construction of sand berms over a three-year period on an
as-needed basis.  However, Petitioner
withdrew that request because its coastal engineer determined that the recently
repaired groins in front of the Club “have performed sufficiently to maintain
adequate beach width on site so that protection of any development on the
applicant’s property from wave hazards is no longer necessary.” (COE Exh. MM at
828.)
 
C.        The
Storm in January 2023
 
            Starting on December 27, 2022, and
continuing into January 2023, severe winter storms related to a series of
“atmospheric river systems” struck California, causing severe property
damage.  On January 4, 2023, Governor
Newsom issued a State of Emergency Proclamation to address the “cascading
impacts of these storms” and their threat to “critical infrastructure, movement
of resources, . . . power outages to thousands of households and businesses . .
. [and] river and urban flooding.”  (COE
Exh. G.)  On January 8, 2023, President
Biden issued a State of Emergency Declaration covering 17 California counties,
including the County of Los Angeles, to “coordinate all disaster relief
efforts” and address the “successive and severe winter storms, flooding and
mudslides.” (Id. Exh. H.)  On January 10
and 13, 2023, respectively, the County Board of Supervisors and the City issued
declarations of local emergencies as a result of the winter storm.  (Id. Exh. J, H.)
 
            In a report issued in February 2023,
the Commission’s Executive Director stated that these storms “brought
record-breaking rainfall, winds, storm surge and snowfall . . . resulting in
devastating flooding, mudslides and storm damage,” and that “California’s
coastal areas bore the brunt of the storms and sustained significant damage.”
(COE Exh. M at 146-147.) 
 
            D.        Petitioner’s
Application for an Exemption 
 
            On April 17, 2023, Petitioner
submitted an application for a CDP exemption based on Public Resources Code section
30610(g), which states that a CDP is not required for “the replacement of any
structure, other than a public works facility, destroyed by a disaster.”  
(COE
Exh. T.)  In its application, Petitioner
asserted that “shifting sands, increased wave action and surge caused by the
historic storms [of January 2023] resulted in cracking and differential
settlement in the southwest corner of the lanai.” (Id. at 459.)  The proposed plans submitted with the
application stated that 39.4 %, or 1,901 of 4,822 square feet, of the Lanai was
damaged and required replacement.  (Id.
at 468.)  Petitioner submitted two photographs
of the damage to the Lanai in support of the application.  (Id. at 470-471.)
 
            On May 22, 2023, the Commission
staff denied the exemption request (hereafter “Decision”).  The Commission staff explained the Decision,
in part, as follows: 
 
Wave action and
storm surge are normal coastal processes and do not necessarily constitute
emergency or disaster. As discussed in the June 2004 report for CDP
5-02-099/A-5-PPL-02-162 for the subject property, the applicant has previously
acknowledged that the lanai structure is subject to periodic flooding and
scouring due to the structure’s hazardous location. The applicant’s coastal
consultants also recognized in more recent studies that the lanai structure
would be subject to intermittent wave uprush and flooding and would also become
increasingly vulnerable to coastal hazards with sea level rise (Bel-Air Bay
Club Beach Preservation Study, Moffat & Nichol, March 2016; Sea Level Rise
Assessment for the Bel-Air Bay Club Site, Moffat & Nichol, July 2019). The
language in 30610(g) is not intended to replace structures that have been
gradually damaged through a series of storms and other natural recurring
flooding events, especially ones that were identified years ago and are known
to exacerbate over time. Thus, the executive director has determined that the
damages to the structure were not wholly the result of a disaster, within the
meaning of 30610(g), but rather the consequence of years of flooding and
scouring caused by wave action. 
 
(COE
Exh. U.)  
            
            E.         Writ
Proceedings 
 
            On
July 17, 2023, Petitioner filed its verified petition for writ of mandate and
complaint for declaratory relief challenging the Decision.  On September 15, 2023, Respondent filed an
answer.  On December 6, 2023, the court
set the petition for hearing and set a briefing schedule.  On February 26, 2024, Petitioner filed its
opening brief, on March 26, 2024, Respondent filed its opposition, and on April
11, 2024, Petitioner filed its reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            The
court grants Petitioner’s request to take judicial notice of Exhibit A.  The court denies Petitioner’s request to take
judicial notice of the remaining exhibits because none is relevant.  There is no dispute that there was a natural
disaster during the relevant time period. 
The mere
fact that the President, the Governor, local authorities, and the Commission’s
Executive Director acknowledged that the storm was a disaster does not mean the
storm caused the damage to the Lanai.  
 
            The court denies Respondent’s
request to take judicial notice of Exhibit TT. 
The court did not rely on this exhibit in ruling on the petition for
writ of mandate.  Accordingly, the court
denies Respondent’s supplemental request to take judicial notice of Exhibit ZZ.

 
            The
court overrules Petitioner’s objections to Exhibits GG through NN.  Respondent’s submission of evidence not
discussed in the Decision itself is not improper post hoc rationalization
for the Decision.  Accordingly, the court
will consider Petitioner’s Exhibit BBB, which was submitted as rebuttal to
Exhibits GG through NN.  
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
            A.        Standard
of Review – The Commission’s Factual Findings
 
An action
challenging a Commission determination that development is not exempt from CDP
requirements is subject to traditional mandamus under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1085. (See Union Oil Co. v. S. Coast Regional Com. (1979) 92
Cal.App.3d 327, 330; see also Opening Brief (“OB”) 8 and Oppo. 10 [parties
agree that section 1085 governs this petition].)  
 
There are two
essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under CCP section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial duty on the
part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial right on the
part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.)  

 
“Generally, mandamus is
available to compel a public agency’s performance or to correct an agency’s
abuse of discretion when the action being compelled or corrected is
ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)  However, mandamus also “will lie to correct abuses of discretion. In determining
whether a public agency has abused its discretion, the court may not substitute
its judgment for that of the agency, and if reasonable minds may disagree as to
the wisdom of the agency’s action, its determination must be upheld. A court must
ask whether the public agency’s action was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely
lacking in evidentiary support, or whether the agency failed to follow the
procedure and give the notices the law requires.”  (County
of Los Angeles v. City of Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643,
654.)  
 
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its official
duties.  (Evid. Code § 664.)  Petitioner “bears the burden of proof in a
mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.”  (California
Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th
1133, 1154.)  
 
B.        Rules of Statutory Interpretation
 
“On questions of
law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent
judgment.’”  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The interpretation of statute or regulation
is a question of law.  (See State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)   “The rules
governing statutory construction are well settled. We begin with the fundamental premise that the objective of statutory interpretation is
to ascertain and effectuate legislative intent. [Citations.] To determine
legislative intent, we turn first to the words of the statute, giving them
their usual and ordinary meaning. [Citations.] When the language of a statute
is clear, we need go no further. However, when the language is susceptible of
more than one reasonable interpretation, we look to a variety of extrinsic
aids, including the ostensible objects to be achieved, the evils to be
remedied, the legislative history, public policy, contemporaneous
administrative construction, and the statutory scheme of which the statute is a
part.”  (Nolan v. City of Anaheim (2004) 33 Cal.4th 335, 340.)   
 
To the extent “purely legal issues involve the interpretation of a
statute an administrative agency is responsible for enforcing, [the court]
exercise[s] [its] independent judgment, ‘taking into account and respecting the
agency's interpretation of its meaning.’” (Housing
Partners I, Inc. v. Duncan (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343; see also Yamaha Corp. of America v. State Bd. Of
Equalization (1998) 19 Cal.4th 1, 11.) 
How much weight to
accord an agency's construction is “situational,” and depends on the circumstances.  (See American
Coatings Assn. v. South Coast Air Quality Management Dist. (2012) 54
Cal.4th 446, 461-462.) These same rules apply to the interpretation of a
regulation.  
 
DISCUSSION 
            
A.        Public
Resources Code section 30610(g)
 
Petitioner contends that Respondent
abused its discretion in denying Petitioner’s exemption application because Respondent
misinterpreted section 30610(g) and its factual findings are entirely lacking
in evidentiary support.  (Opening Brief
(“OB”) 9.)  Section 30610(g), the
Disaster Exemption, provides in relevant part as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, no
coastal development permit shall be required pursuant to this chapter for the
following types of development and in the following areas:
 
… 
 
(g)(1) The replacement
of any structure, other than a public works facility, destroyed by a disaster.  The replacement structure shall conform to
applicable existing zoning requirements, shall be for the same use as the destroyed
structure, shall not exceed either the floor area, height, or bulk of the
destroyed structure by more than 10 percent, and shall be sited in the same
location on the affected property as the destroyed structure.
 
(2) As used in this subdivision:
 
(A) “Disaster” means
any situation in which the force or forces which destroyed the structure to be
replaced were beyond the control of its owner.
 
(Pub.
Resources Code § 30610(g).)
 
            B.        The
Commission’s Finding that the Damage Was Caused by Normal Wave Action
 
            The Commission found that “the
damages to the structure were not wholly the
result of a disaster, within the meaning of 30610(g), but rather the
consequence of years of flooding and scouring caused by wave action.”  (COE Exh. U.) 
In denying Petitioner’s application, the Commission cited evidence that Petitioner “has
previously acknowledged that the lanai structure is subject to periodic
flooding and scouring due to the structure’s hazardous location” and that Petitioner’s
“coastal consultants also recognized in more recent studies that the lanai
structure would be subject to intermittent wave uprush and flooding and would
also become increasingly vulnerable to coastal hazards with sea level rise.”  (Ibid.)  
 
As part of its Decision, the Commission adopted the following statutory
interpretation: “[Section] 30610(g) is not intended to replace structures that
have been gradually damaged through a series of storms and other natural
recurring flooding events, especially ones that were identified years ago and
are known to exacerbate over time.”  (COE
Exh. U.)  Petitioner has not shown that this
interpretation is incorrect.  The court
reviews the statute de novo and considers relevant extrinsic aids to
resolve ambiguity.  (Nolan, supra, 33 Cal.4th at
340.)[1]   Section
30610(g) only applies to a structure that is “destroyed by a disaster,”
and in situations in which the destructive forces are “beyond the control of
its owner.”  (emphasis added.)  The statute does not authorize the Commission
to grant an exemption for structures that were gradually damaged by exposure to
many years of natural forces.  Rather,
the plain language strongly suggests that a disaster must be the predominate—if
not the sole—causal factor in the destruction of the structure for the Disaster
Exemption to apply.  A contrary
interpretation would be inconsistent with the Coastal Act, which, among other
things, requires new development to “minimize risks to life and property in
areas of high geologic, flood, and fire hazard” and “assure stability and
structural integrity.” (Pub. Res. Code § 30253 (a), (b).)  A contrary interpretation would also lead to
absurd results under which coastal property owners could have an incentive to avoid
repairs to coastal structures that may have been gradually damaged or
compromised by non-disaster, natural forces. 
(See
People v. Jenkins (1995) 10 Cal.4th 234, 246 [when interpreting a statute or regulation, courts seek to “avoid an
interpretation that would lead to absurd consequences.”]; Takiguchi v.
Venetian Condominiums Maintenance Corp. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 880, 895 [“A remedial statute should be liberally construed to effectuate its object
and purpose, and to suppress the mischief at which it is directed.”].)  
 
Petitioner has not
advanced a persuasive argument that the Disaster Exemption applies even if the
structure is destroyed primarily by factors unrelated to a disaster, or if a
disaster does not contribute significantly to the destruction of the structure.
 Petitioner asserts that “nothing in
Section 30610(g) states that a ‘disaster’ must be a singular event....”  (OB 16.) 
The court is unpersuaded by this argument.   Section 30610(g) makes clear that the
structure must be destroyed by “a disaster.” 
While a disaster (such as a storm) may encompass multiple natural
forces, the statute only applies if the structure is actually destroyed by
those forces, and not some other non-disaster forces or elements.  The legislative history cited by Petitioner indicates
that a severe storm may constitute a disaster under section 30610(g), but does
not show legislative intent to apply the Disaster Exemption where factors other
than a disaster were the predominate cause of the structure damage.  (See OB 13, discussing COE Exh. F.)  
 
Applying this
interpretation of section 30610(g) to this case, Respondent found that the
damage to the Lanai was “the consequence of years of flooding and
scouring caused by wave action.”  (COE Exh. U [bold italics added].) 
There is substantial evidentiary support for that finding, including the
following:
 
·                
As Petitioner acknowledges, the Lanai “is a
simple slab-on-grade structure—i.e., poured concrete on an underlying base of
compacted sand.”  (OB 5:8-9; see also COE
Exh. T at 459.)  Thus, the Lanai is not
raised or otherwise protected from wave action, high tide, or flooding.  
 
·                
According
to a Commission staff report dated October 27, 1992, “the beach in front of the
Bel Air Bay Club has suffered significant erosion since the early 1980s. The
sand shortage, combined with a shoreline erosion pattern which consistently
erodes away the beach in the subject area, and the tendency of the beach
to reestablish its former configuration, has made it difficult for the Club to
maintain a wide beach in this area to protect the Club from high tides
and storm surges.”  (COE Exh. GG
at 699 [bold italics added].)  
 
·                
In
2016, consultant Moffatt & Nichol issued a report for Petitioner titled
“Bel-Air Bay Club Beach Preservation Study,” which analyzed “the existing and
future stability of the beach, and propose[d] possible methods to preserve the
beach as well as mitigate storm impacts to the BABC facilities.”  (COE Exh. CC at 596.)  The report noted that “BABC beach facilities
are particularly susceptible to damage from storm events due to exposure of the
shoreline” and summarized several storm events that caused damage to the BABC
facilities during the lifespan of the Lanai. 
(Id. at 607.)  
            
·                
In
a letter to the Commission dated July 16, 2019, Moffatt & Nichol responded
to a request for clarification about which portions of the Club facilities will
benefit from sand berm protection against flooding.  Moffat & Nichol stated: “Generally
speaking, areas directly landward of/behind the berm will benefit most from
berm protection against flooding…. These areas include the … the lanai …. While
the eastern and western portions of the property are protected by a relatively
deeply embedded seawall, the lanai area immediately seaward of the
central club is under-protected, being fronted by a shallow garden wall type
structure. This central wall structure is overtopped during high tide or
combined moderate tide plus swell events…. Furthermore, this structure is
susceptible to scour and undermining, particularly at the westernmost section.
Further scour poses the potential to undermine the lanai structure.”  (COE Exh. OO at 887-887 [emphasis
added].)  
 
·                
In
December 2019, consultant Moffatt & Nichol issued a report for Petitioner
titled “Berm Alternative Analysis II,” which analyzed alternatives “to respond
to wave caused erosion on high tide events on site.”  (COE Exh. NN at 862.)  This report analyzed, among other things,
alternatives involving the relocation or removal of the Lanai.  (Id. at 865, 873.)  As an example, the report states: “The Club
has concerns that demolition of the existing lanai could have repercussions for
the remaining portions of the Club, as its removal would expose the
central Club buildings to potential flooding, absent a sand berm.”  (COE Exh. NN at 865 [bold italics added].)  In addition, “[t]he Club has analyzed the
preliminary feasibility of raising the lanai to reduce the exposure of
this structure to wave caused damage and flooding.”  (Id. at 873 [bold italics
added].)  
 
·                
In
February 2020, consultant Moffatt & Nichol issued a report for Petitioner
titled, “Expanded Sea Level Rise Assessment,” which described the risk to the
BABC facility from wave surge. Among other things, the report stated: “During
high tide events, waves have traversed the beach and reached Club facilities
causing damage and debris build-up.” 
(COE Exh. DD at 653.)  The report
also stated that “flooding of outdoor Bel-Air Bay Club structures has been
documented in the past under moderate to high tide and storm conditions and
under various beach width conditions.”  (Id.
at 660.)  
 
            In sum, the record contains
substantial evidence the Lanai is built directly upon a compressed sand
foundation, is located “immediately seaward” of the club, and has been exposed
to periodic wave action and occasional flooding for many years, including
during multiple severe storm events that occurred prior to January 2023.  Petitioner’s own consultant, Moffat &
Nichol, has acknowledged in reports between 2016 and 2020, well before the
January 2023 storm, that the Lanai is exposed to “scour and undermining” and
“flooding,” that “further scour poses the potential to undermine the lanai
structure,” and that the Lanai is susceptible to “wave caused damage and
flooding.”  (See OB 5:8-9; COE Exh. T at
459; Exh. OO at 887-887; Exh. NN at 865, 873; and Exh. DD at 660.)  A reasonable person could conclude from this
evidence that the Lanai was susceptible to damage from recurrent wave uprush
and occasional flooding and that the Lanai was damaged as a result of many years
of wave action during its 70-year existence. 
A reasonable person could also conclude that, because of this alternate
explanation for the damage, the January 2023 storm event did not cause the
damage to the Lanai.  
 
            Petitioner argues that damage to the
Lanai “resulted from greatly increased wave intensity and velocity and
corresponding sand erosion resulting from high tides, extreme rainfall, and
wind-driven surf” that occurred during the January 2023 storms.  (OB 14.) 
Petitioner ignores the deferential standard of review.  Petitioner must show that Respondent’s
decision was arbitrary, capricious, and entirely lacking in evidentiary
support.  This standard is highly
deferential to the agency’s action.  (State Bd. Of Chiropractic Examiners v.
Superior Court (2009) 45 Cal.4th 963, 977 [“Writ review under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085 is even more
deferential” than the substantial evidence standard of review that applies
under CCP section 1094.5]) “When the evidence on an issue conflicts, the decisionmaker is
‘permitted to give more weight to some of the evidence ….’”  (Town of Atherton v. California
High-Speed Rail Authority (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 314, 349.) The court
“do[es] not weigh conflicting evidence, as that is the role of the public
agency.” (Protect Tustin Ranch v. City of Tustin (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th
951, 960.)  
 
            Along with photos of the damage to
the Lanai, Petitioner submits approximately an hour of security camera video
footage taken the morning of January 6, 2023, which Petitioner “compressed …
into a couple of seconds.”  (Eiselman
Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. Z.)  Petitioner produced
the non-compressed video footage to Respondent in November 2023, in discovery
in this action.  (Ibid.)  Petitioner argues: “Time-lapsed security
camera video from that morning . . . shows the southwest corner of the Lanai
collapsing very shortly after the storm subsided.”  (OB 14:25-26.)  Petitioner also relies on a series of
photographs.  This evidence does not
demonstrate that the Commission’s finding to the contrary was “arbitrary,
capricious, or entirely lacking in evidentiary support.”  As Respondent notes, the video does not show
that the Lanai was damaged by strong or large waves crashing on top of it.  (Oppo. 14:3-6.)  Neither do Petitioner’s photographs.  Petitioner has not submitted any expert
declaration, deposition testimony, or report opining, based on the photos,
video, or other evidence, that the damage to the Lanai was caused by the
January 2023 storm.  To the contrary, Respondent’s
finding that the damage was caused by many years of wave action is based on
reasonable inferences from statements in the expert reports of Moffatt &
Nichol, Petitioner’s own coastal engineer. 
Even if the storm was a contributing factor—“the straw that broke the
camel’s back”—Petitioner does not establish that the storm was the
predominate—if not the sole—causal factor in the damage to the Lanai.  
 
            Petitioner asserts that “[i]n its
70-year existence, BABC has not needed to conduct any major repairs to the
Lanai.”  (OB 15:1-2.)  Relatedly, Petitioner asserts that “evidence
shows that no major run-up from waves has eroded the compacted layer of sand
underneath the Lanai’s concrete slab or otherwise undermined the Lanai, and the
Lanai structure has not been subject to scouring.”  (OB 15:2-5.) 
Petitioner does not provide a record citation supporting either
contention.  Further, the Moffat &
Nichol reports show that the Lanai has been subject to scouring and that Petitioner
has been concerned about damage to the Lanai from wave action and
flooding.  (COE Exh. OO at 887-887; Exh.
NN at 865, 873.)  The fact that
Petitioner may not have performed major repairs to the Lanai in the face of
such concerns could reasonably support the Commission’s decision that the
collapse was caused by unaddressed damage from wave action, scouring, and occasional
flooding over many years.  
 
            Petitioner contends that “[a] report
submitted to the Commission in November 2022 by BABC’s coastal engineers …
contains data of monthly beach width measurements taken over a two-year period
through August 2022 … [and] confirms that there was abundant sand on the beach
and contains no evidence of sand having been scoured out from under the
Lanai.”  (OB 15:5-9, citing COE Exh. V at
509-512.)  Petitioner does not provide a
cogent discussion of the cited evidence. 
Nor does Petitioner cite any expert opinions in the November 2022 report
that are relevant to this case or that contradict the other evidence from
Moffat & Nichol.  In any event, the
court cannot weigh this evidence given the deferential standard of review.  
            
            In responding to Respondent’s
evidence, Petitioner argues that Respondent “relies on documents not addressed
in the Denial Letter in an attempt to bolster the letter’s reasoning.”  (Reply 9.) 
Contrary to Petitioner’s assertion, Respondent does not rely on the
reports summarized above for a post hoc rationalization, but rather to
support the findings stated in the Decision. 
Petitioner cites no authority that Respondent was required to “address”
all relevant evidence in its determination letter.  Indeed, Petitioner itself relies on evidence,
including the compressed video footage, that was not made available to
Respondent until November 2023, well after the exemption decision was
made.  Regardless, Petitioner
acknowledges that some of Respondent’s evidence, specifically the staff report
for the 2004 CDPs and two Moffatt & Nichol studies, were relied upon by
Respondent’s staff in the exemption decision. 
(Reply 10:2-3.)  This evidence
standing alone is sufficient to support the Commission’s decision.    
 
            Petitioner also asserts that the
Moffitt & Nichol reports do not “help the Commission.”  (Reply 10; see also OB 15-16.)  However, Petitioner does not persuasively
address this evidence.  For instance,
Petitioner states that the “Berm Alternatives Analysis II states nowhere that
the Lanai has historically undergone scour or flooding.”  (Reply 10.) 
Petitioner ignores the statements in Moffat & Nichol’s July 2019
letter and December report that the Lanai is exposed to “scour and undermining”
and “flooding,” that “further scour poses the potential to undermine the lanai
structure,” and that the Lanai is susceptible to “wave caused damage and
flooding.”  (COE Exh. OO at 887-887; Exh.
NN at 865, 873.)  This evidence from
Moffat & Nichol’s July 2019 letter and December report supports
Respondent’s decision that the Disaster Exemption does not apply, and detracts
from Petitioner’s contrary position.  Further,
given the evidence that the Lanai is subject to scour, wave action, and
occasional flooding, it is not dispositive that the Lanai is projected to be
subject to more serious “flood hazards” under a 0.8 foot sea level rise
scenario.  (See OB 16:12-5, citing COE
Exh. DD at 665-666.)  Indeed, the same
report cited by Petitioner acknowledges that “flooding of outdoor Bel-Air Bay
Club structures has been documented in the past under moderate to high tide and
storm conditions and under various beach width conditions.”  (COE Exh. DD at 660-661.)
 
            In sum, assuming the Lanai was
“destroyed” within the meaning of section 30610(g), the court agrees with the
Commission’s interpretation that the Disaster Exemption applies to structures
that are destroyed predominantly—if not exclusively—by a natural disaster.  In this case, the Commission found that the
Lanai was damaged predominantly or exclusively as “the consequence of years of
flooding and scouring caused by wave action.” 
Among other things, the Commission relied on Petitioner’s own admissions
and evidence: 
 
[T]he
applicant has previously acknowledged that the lanai structure is subject to
periodic flooding and scouring due to the structure’s hazardous location.  The applicant’s coastal consultants also
recognized in more recent studies that the lanai structure would be subject to
intermittent wave uprush and flooding and would also become increasingly vulnerable
to coastal hazards with sea level rise.
 
(COE
Exh. D.)  Petitioner does not demonstrate
that the Commission’s finding was “arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking
in evidentiary support.”  
 
            C.        The
Commission’s Past Decisions on other Applications   
 
            Petitioner argues that the
Commission’s decision is arbitrary or capricious because its denial of
Petitioner’s application is inconsistent with other applications that it
granted.  (OB 13-14;
Reply 12-13.)  In October 2014, Guided
Discoveries submitted an application under section 30610(g) alleging that “the
landing pier at Buttonshell Beach (Camp Fox) on Catalina Island was destroyed
by wave action from hurricane Marie.” (COE Exh. B.)  The application noted that the pier was the
“only means of access to the youth camp.”   (Ibid.)  A photograph and drawing submitted with the
application showed that approximately 61% of the pier (158 feet divided by 257
feet) was destroyed by the hurricane event. 
(Ibid.)  The Commission issued the
exemption under Section 30610(g) to “[r]eplace a 257-foot long recreational
pier damaged by storm waves” and to construct a “new 257-foot long timber pier
in the same footprint.” (COE Exh. C at 70.) 
Similarly, in April 2015, Commission issued an exemption under section
30610(g) to replace a 262-foot
long recreational pier at White’s Landing in Catalina that was also damaged by Hurricane
Marie.  (COE Exh. D, E.)  Neither of these decisions proves an
inconsistency in how the Commission reviews applications under section
30610(g).  The granted applications were
to replace piers that had been “destroyed” within the meaning of section
30610(g).  Moreover, the Commission
reasonably could have concluded that these piers were destroyed by Hurricane
Marie rather than approximately 75 years of wave action.  Finally, even if the Commission erred in
granting one or both of these exemptions, it does not establish that it acted
arbitrarily or capriciously in this case. 
      
 
Respondent cites a
decision from 2011, in which the Commission determined that an application for
a rock revetment was not exempt under Section 30610(g). (COE Exh. RR at 950.)   The Commission explained its decision, as
follows: 
 
A
disaster is a particular, non-routine, event that causes harm or property
damage. The Coastal Act further narrows the common definition of a disaster to include
only those situations in which the forces that caused the destruction are
beyond the property owner's control. The proposed project is intended to
restore the effectiveness of a revetment which has gradually deteriorated over
the years due to normal weathering and wave action. The need for regular repair
and maintenance is expected and inherent with structures subject to wave and
tidal action, and the Commission has never considered development such as this
to be replacement of a structure destroyed by a disaster.
 
(COE
Exh. RR at 950.)  The Commission denied
the exemption based on evidence that “repair and maintenance of the revetment
was being considered by the applicant before the storm event now cited as a
‘disaster’.”  (Id. Exh. SS at 964.)  This demonstrates a consistency in how the
Commission reviews applications for the Disaster Exemption.
 
            D.        The
Commission’s Argument that the Lanai was not “Destroyed”   
 
            The Commission argues that the Lanai was not “destroyed” within the meaning of section
30610(g).  The Commission takes the
position that a structure is “destroyed” within the meaning of the statute when
50 percent or more has been impacted by the disaster, i.e., when the
majority of the structure has been rendered useless.  The Commission relies on California Code of
Regulations, Title 14, section 13252, which states that replacement of 50
percent or more of a structure constitutes a “replacement structure.”  (14 Cal. Code Regs. § 13252(b).)  In this case, Petitioner seeks to replace
39.4 percent of the Lanai’s surface with new concrete and to do so some “spot
repairs” to the perimeter wall and fill/compact sand underneath the new
concrete.  Accordingly, the Commission
argues that section 30610(g) does not apply. 

 
            Respondent
did not expressly deny Petitioner’s application for the Disaster Exemption on
this basis.  (See COE Exh U.)  Generally,
courts do not accept post hoc rationalization for agency action, but
rather review the findings that were made by the agency.  (See Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. v. State
Farm Mut. (1983) 463 U.S. 29, 50 [“It is well-established that an agency's
action must be upheld, if at all, on the basis articulated by the agency
itself”]; No Oil, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 Cal.3d 68, 81.)  Because the court finds that the Commission’s
decision to deny the exemption was not arbitrary, capricious, or lacking in
evidence for other reasons, the court need not address whether the Commission’s
interpretation of “destroyed” is correct.[2]  
 
In a
footnote, Respondent argues: “The Denial Letter also asserted that the separate
‘repair and maintenance exemption under Section 30610 did not apply.”  (OB 17 fn. 5.)  It appears that the Commission, upon deciding
that the Disaster Exemption did not apply, construed the application as seeking
a “Repair and Maintenance” exemption under Public Resources Code section 30610(d).  This section provides an exemption for
repairs that “do not result in an addition to, or enlargement or expansion of,
the object of those repairs” unless “the commission determines that certain
extraordinary methods of repair and maintenance involve a risk of substantial
adverse environmental impact . . . .” 
(Pub. Resources Code § 30610(d).) 
The Commission’s regulation state that this exemption does not apply to:

 
Any repair . . . to
facilities or structures or work located in . . . any sand area . . . or within
20 feet of coastal waters or streams that include: (A) The placement or
removal, whether temporary or permanent, of rip-rap, rocks, sand or other beach
materials or any other forms of solid materials; [or] (B) The presence, whether
temporary or permanent, of mechanized equipment or construction materials.
 
(14
Cal. Code Regs. § 13252(a)(2).)  The
Decision then denied the application on this basis.  (See COE Exh. U.)  
 
Because Petitioner did not seek an
exemption under section 30610(d), the court considered whether to grant the
petition only with respect to this finding so Petitioner could submit a formal application
for an exemption under section 30610(d). 
The court declines to do so for several reasons.  Petitioner does not seek that relief,
focusing exclusively on the Disaster Exemption. 
Nor does Petitioner articulate any additional information that would be
included in a new application. 
Accordingly, it is clear that Petitioner does not qualify for the
“Repair Exemption” under section 30610(d) because the project would involve
placement of “sand or other beach materials or other forms of solid materials,”
i.e., concrete.  To the extent the
Commission erred in considering an exemption Petitioner did not request, the
error was harmless.   
 
E.         Petitioner’s Request for Declaratory
Relief 
 
Petitioner’s
second cause of action seeks declaratory relief.  A declaratory relief action is inappropriate
when a plaintiff has an adequate remedy on other causes of action at
trial.  (See Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324; California
Ins. Guarantee Assn. v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617,
1624.)  
 
            The declaratory relief statute
should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue
which can be determined in the main action. 
The object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed
and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues.
(General of America
Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.)  In this case, the claim for declaratory
relief is derivative of the petition for writ of mandate.  The Court has discretion to decline to issue
a declaratory judgment under these circumstances.  (See AICCO, Inc. v. Insurance Company of
North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579, 590.)  Accordingly, the court rules in favor of
Respondent, and against Petitioner, on this cause of action.  In the alternative, the court rules in favor
of Respondent, and against Petitioner, for the same reasons it denies the writ
of mandate.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s petition for a writ of
mandate is denied.
 
            2.         The court rules in favor of Respondent,
and against Petitioner, on the second cause of action for declaratory
relief.  
 
            3.         Respondent shall prepare and lodge a
proposed judgment forthwith.  If
Respondent fails to do so within a reasonable period of time, Petitioner may
prepare and lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            4.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
 IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: May 1, 2024                                                    ______________________________ 
Stephen I. Goorvitch
Superior Court Judge  
 


