 Case Number:  22STCV22768    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 8,
2024

MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV22768

 



MP:  


Burlington Coat Factory of Texas, LLC
  (Defendant)




RP:  


The Estate of Valentina Orellana
  Peralta, Soledad Peralta, and Juan Pablo Orellana Larenas (Plaintiffs) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This is a
negligence action brought by the Estate of
Valentina Orellana Peralta (Valentina), Soledad Peralta (Peralta), and Juan Pablo
Orellana Larenas (Larenas) (collectively Plaintiffs). Plaintiffs bring this against
the City of Los Angeles (the City), the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD), Officer
William Dorsey Jones Jr. (Jones), and Burlington Coat Factory of Texas, LLC
(Burlington). 
 
Plaintiffs allege
that on December 23, 2021, Peralta and her 14 year-old daughter Valentina were
shopping at a retail location owned by Burlington in North Hollywood. While
Peralta and Valentina were in the store, Daniel Elena-Lopez (Lopez) entered the
store, began to shoplift, and then became violent towards others. When LAPD
officers arrived on the scene, they confronted Lopez and eventually fired upon
him. Valentina, who was hiding in a nearby dressing room with Peralta, was
unfortunately struck and killed by one of the bullets discharged at Lopez. 
 
Before the Court is a
Motion for Summary Judgment brought by Burlington. Burlington argues that no
triable issue of fact exists as to the following issues: 
 
1.     
Burlington could
not have foreseen the criminal incident that rapidly evolved into a police
shooting, and policy considerations weigh against Plaintiffs' articulation of
its duty. 
 
2.     
Any allegedly
negligent conduct by Burlington was superseded by the criminal actions of a
third party and the subsequent actions of a police officer. 
 
3.     
Because
Plaintiffs' claim for negligence fails, Plaintiffs' claim for negligent
infliction of emotional distress must also fail.
  
Plaintiffs have filed no opposition to
this motion. The Court notes that, pursuant to C.R.C.
Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being
granted.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
To
prevail on its motion, Burlington must demonstrate that no triable issue of
fact exists as to any essential element of Plaintiffs’ claims against them. As
previously stated, those claims are for (1) Negligence and (2) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress. The Court will analyze each of these claims
in turn. 
 
Negligence 
 
The
elements of a Negligence cause of action are duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) Burlington
asserts that there is no triable issue of fact as to the elements of duty,
breach, and causation. As the existence of a duty is a threshold element of a
Negligence action, the Court analyzes that element first. 
 
“Landowners
under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc. (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663, citing Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674.) “One well-established limit is that there is no
duty to act to protect others from the conduct of third parties.” (Williams
supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at 663 [internal quotation marks omitted].) 
 
There
exists an exception to this limit where a party has shown a special
relationship between the injured party and the landowner. (Melton v.
Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 531.) “Courts have found such a
special relationship in cases involving the relationship between business
proprietors such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants,
patrons, or invitees.” (Id. [internal quotation marks and citations
omitted].) “It is established that business proprietors such as shopping
centers, restaurants, and bars owe a duty to their patrons to maintain their
premises in a reasonably safe condition, and that this duty includes an
obligation to undertake reasonable steps to secure common areas against
foreseeable criminal acts of third parties that are likely to occur in the
absence of such precautionary measures.” (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 229 [citations and internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
However,
“the scope of a landowner's duty to provide protection from foreseeable third
party [criminal acts] ... is determined in part by balancing the foreseeability
of the harm against the burden of the duty to be imposed. [I]n cases where the
burden of preventing future harm is great, a high degree of foreseeability may
be required. On the other hand, in cases where there are strong policy reasons
for preventing the harm, or the harm can be prevented by simple means, a lesser
degree of foreseeability may be required. [D]uty in such circumstances is
determined by a balancing of foreseeability of the criminal acts against the
burdensomeness, vagueness, and efficacy of the proposed security measures.” (Tan
v. Arnel Management Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1087, 1095–1096 [citations
and internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
When
a plaintiff is unable to produce sufficient evidence of heightened
foreseeability in the form of prior similar incidents or other indications of
reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assault on defendant's
premises, there is no obligation on defendant's part to provide any guard, or
additional guards, to protect against third party assaults. (Delgado supra,
36 Cal.4th at 245.) However, “the absence of heightened foreseeability ...
merely signifies that defendant owe[s] no special-relationship-based duty to
provide guards or undertake other similarly burdensome preventive measures; it
does not signify that defendant owe[s] no other special-relationship-based duty
to plaintiff, such as a duty to respond to events unfolding in its presence by
undertaking reasonable, relatively simple, and minimally burdensome measures.”
(Id.)
 
In Delgado,
the defendant’s bar employed two bouncers, one inside the bar and the other
positioned outside. (Delgado supra, 36 Cal.4th at 230.) The inside
bouncer noticed “hostile stares” between the plaintiff and other bar patrons.
Believing a fight was imminent, the bouncer asked the plaintiff to leave, but
did not escort the plaintiff to his car. While in the parking lot, the
plaintiff was accosted by the other bar patrons. (Id. at 231.) The California
Supreme Court reiterated that the scope of a business proprietor's
special-relationship-based duty included an obligation to provide guards to
protect the safety of patrons only when ‘heightened’ foreseeability of third
party criminal activity on the premises was shown. (Id. at 240.) 
 
In
reviewing the evidence, the Delgado court concluded that defendant did
have actual notice of an impending assault at the premises. (Id. at
250.)  Accordingly, defendant’s special
relationship-based duty included an obligation to take reasonable, relatively
simple, and minimally burdensome steps to attempt to avert that danger. (Id.)
The Court stated such steps may have included the bouncer (1) attempting to
maintain the separation between plaintiff and the other bar patrons, (2)
attempting to dissuade the other patrons from following, or (3) confirming that
the outside bouncer was at his post and could help maintain the desired
separation between plaintiff and the other patrons. (Id. at 246–247.)
 
What
actions constitute “reasonable, relatively simple, and minimally burdensome
steps” was further explored by the Supreme Court in Morris v. De La Torres.
In Morris, a restaurant patron was stabbed by a gang member who had
seized a knife from the restaurant. (Morris v. De La Torre (2005) 36
Cal.4th 260, 266–267.) The restaurant employees watched without calling for
help. (Id. at 267.) The Supreme Court recognized “there may be
situations in which the response that is ‘appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances’
includes not making such a call—as when doing so unreasonably would increase
the danger to a patron, invitee, employee, or anyone else legally upon the
premises....” (Id. at p. 277.) However, in Morris, the court
could not “conclude as a matter of law that defendant's employees acted
reasonably in declining to place a 911 call or undertake any other minimally
burdensome measure on plaintiff's behalf. That disputed issue must be resolved
by a jury in connection with its determination of whether defendant breached
his duty to plaintiff.” (Id. at 278.)
 
In
essence, Delgado and Morris make clear that the scope of the duty
a business proprietor owes to a patron is determined by how foreseeable injury
to a patron is. If third party violence is only generally foreseeable, a
business proprietor’s duty only extends to reasonable, relatively simple, and
minimally burdensome measures to ensure patron safety. If there is a high level
of foreseeability, as demonstrated by significant evidence of prior third party
crime at the premises, the duty owed increases to include the hiring of
security guards and other similarly burdensome measures. 
 
Here,
Burlington has demonstrated that there is no triable issue of fact as to
whether it owed Plaintiffs an increased duty due to Lopez’s violence being
highly foreseeable. Burlington has provided uncontroverted evidence that this
Burlington location had never experienced an incident involving a customer
assaulting other customers or employees and had previously never had police
respond to the premises. (Exh. B, Joshi Decl. ¶ 18.) 
 
Although
Burlington has certainly demonstrated there was no heightened foreseeability,
the Court does not find the lack of previous criminal incidents renders such
incidents entirely unforeseeable. Delgado and Morris make clear
that at least some minimal level of duty is owed to patrons in situations where
a business experiences an act of violence at its premises. While the scope of
the duty owed is variable based on the level of foreseeability, the fact that
there were no prior criminal assaults or police calls at this location does not
entirely absolve Burlington of its duty. Just as the employees in Morris had
the duty to call the police in response to an assault, so too did Burlington
have a duty to respond to Lopez’s violence. 
 
Accordingly,
the measures which Burlington were required to take pursuant to their duty are
determined by a low level of foreseeability. This comports with the allegations
in Plaintiffs’ Complaint, which only assert that Burlington failed to take
minimal steps to mitigate third party violence. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that Burlington employees “…permitted Mr. Lopez to remain in the store
and made no effort to address his increasingly violent and erratic behavior or
warn any of the customers inside the store that they may be in danger.” (Compl.
¶ 21.) Plaintiffs further allege that Burlington employees “…failed to use
the store intercom or otherwise to advise store patrons or warn the customers
in the back of the store of the developing situation.” (Id.) Lastly,
Plaintiffs allege Burlington failed to “…create, devise, implement, and/or
execute a plan for evacuating the store in case of emergency and/or its failure
to provide its employees with proper training, supervision, direction regarding
evacuation of the store.” (Id.) 
 
The
Court notes that these proposed measures appear to be akin to the reasonable,
relatively simple, and minimally burdensome steps described in Morris. The
proposed burden on Burlington appears low and the level of foreseeability
required is also low. From the evidence presented, the Court cannot say that no
triable issue of fact exists as to any duty Burlington owed Plaintiffs. However,
the Court does find the evidence demonstrates there exists no triable fact as
to whether Burlington breached that duty. 
 
Burlington
submits the declaration of the store manager at the time of the incident, Komal
Joshi (Joshi). Joshi states that he was at the premises at the time of the
incident and initially approached Lopez to request that he leave the store.
(Exh. B, Joshi Decl. ¶ 7.) Joshi states that while Lopez was being
escorted out, he struck another employee. (Id. at ¶ 8.) It was at
this time that Joshi called the police believing the situation to have
escalated to be unsafe. (Id.; Exhibit C, LAPD Incident Recall Log.)
Joshi states that he then yelled for customers and employees to evacuate the
store. (Id. at ¶ 10.) Joshi also made an announcement to evacuate
over the store’s PA system. (Id. at ¶ 11.) Joshi further states, on
information and belief, that many of the store’s patrons and employees did
evacuate through the stairwells while others took shelter in the assistant
manager’s office. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-15.) Lastly, Joshi states that he
remained on the phone with the police until they arrived at the scene
approximately 15 minutes later. (Id. at ¶ 16.) 
 
From
Joshi’s sworn statement, it is clear that Burlington took each of the steps
presented in Plaintiffs’ allegations. Joshi attests that he employed each of Plaintiffs’
alleged safety measures by calling the police, alerting customers over the
intercom, and executing an evacuation. By virtue of their failure to oppose
this motion, Plaintiffs have presented the court with no evidence to the
contrary. As such, the only evidence in the case demonstrates that Burlington took
the reasonable, relatively simple, and minimally burdensome steps required of
them by law. It follows that Plaintiff has presented no triable issue of fact
as to whether Burlington breached the duty owed to them as patrons of
Burlington’s store. 
 
The
Court notes that this case presents an additional wrinkle as to foreseeability/breach
which was not present in Delgado or Morris. Here, Valentina’s death
was not the direct result of Lopez’s violence rather, it resulted from measures
employed by the LAPD to stop Lopez. Even though the actions of Lopez were
foreseeable to a certain extent, that a customer would be injured by police
attempts to stop him is far less foreseeable. The Court need not determine
whether the intervening actions of the LAPD should play a role in determining
whether Burlington breached its duty in this case. Burlington has demonstrated
that it fulfilled its legal duty even were Valentina’s death to have directly
resulted from an assault by Lopez. The Court finds further analysis on this
issue is unnecessary given that the police response could only decrease the
foreseeability in this case.   
 
In short,
the Court finds no triable issue of fact exists at to whether Burlington
breached the duty it owed to Plaintiffs as a business proprietor. As the
evidence indicates there were no prior incidents of violence or crime at this location,
Burlington was only legally required to take reasonable, relatively
simple, and minimally burdensome steps to ensure Valentina’s safety.
Burlington’s uncontroverted evidence demonstrates their employee unequivocally
took those steps by calling police and evacuating the store. 
 
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
The basic
elements of a Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED) cause of action
are that: (1) defendant was negligent; (2) plaintiff suffered serious emotional
distress; and (3) defendant's negligence was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff's serious emotional distress. (CACI 1620.)
 
The Court
having found no triable issue of fact as to a breach constituting negligence,
it follows that there can be no triable issue of fact as to NIED. The defeat of
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for general negligence means they necessarily lack the
first element of an NIED claim. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Burlington has demonstrated
no triable issue of fact exists as to whether it breached its duty to
Plaintiffs, and Plaintiffs have filed no
opposition to this motion. The Court notes that, pursuant
to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to
its being granted.
As such,
Burlington has successfully negated an essential element of each of Plaintiffs’
claims against them. Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Burlington Coat
Factory of Texas, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment
came on regularly for hearing on November 8, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT BURLINGTON TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: November
8, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 