 Case Number:  22STCV2276823BBC    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 8,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01017

 



MP:  


Diana Escoto (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


General Motors, LLC (Defendant) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
  
Diana Escoto
(Plaintiff) brings this action against General Motors, LLC (Defendant). Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant sold her a defective 2023 Chevrolet Corvette (Subject
Vehicle) and thereafter refused to repurchase the vehicle in violation of the
Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Before the Court is motion by Plaintiff to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) as to a variety of
categories. Plaintiff argues that despite noticing the deposition and
attempting to meet and confer, Defendant has not produced its PMK. Defendant
opposes, arguing that they timely objected to a number of Plaintiffs’
deposition categories. Plaintiff did not file a Reply by the required deadline
established by C.C.P. § 1005(b).  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
On
September 8, 2023, Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s PMK.
(Terzian Decl. ¶ 17, Exh. 4.) The deposition was noticed for October 4,
2023. (Id.) Plaintiff states she received no response to this deposition
notice and that Defendant did not serve any formal objection. (Terzian Decl.
¶ 18.) Nor did the deposition of Defendant’s PMK go forward. (Id.) 
 
On
October 9, 2023, Plaintiff served an Amended Notice of Deposition of
Defendant’s PMK, this time for November 3, 2023. (Terzian Decl. ¶ 19, Exh.
5.) Plaintiff states she received no response to this deposition notice and
that Defendant did not serve any formal objection. (Terzian Decl. ¶ 20.)
Nor did the deposition of Defendant’s PMK go forward. (Id.)
 
On
July 30, 2024, Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer
letter. Defendant stated the letter was to serve as a collective objection to
all outstanding Notices of Deposition served upon Defendant by Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Terzian Decl. ¶ 21, Exh. 6.) The letter estimated that Plaintiff
has noticed approximately 3,500 depositions for Defendant’s PMK across various
cases. (Id.) 
 
On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel responded in a letter requesting the
scheduling of depositions in various Song-Beverly Cases. (Terzian Decl.
¶ 22, Exh. 7.) It appears from the contents of the letter that Defendant
and Plaintiff were previously at odds as to the scope of PMK depositions. (Id.)
The letter from Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that this disagreement had since
been worked out and deposition should proceed in cases slated for trial. (See
Exh. 7 [“After much discussion, an agreement was reached whereby Defendant
would proceed with PMK depositions and schedule them in an orderly manner,
prioritizing the most relevant and preceding cases.”].) 
 
On
August 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel once again inquired as to dates for
depositions in the various Song-Beverly cases. (Terzian Decl., Exh. 8 at p.
67.) Defendant’s counsel responded that the July 31, 2024 meet and confer
letter did not address Defendant’s concerns about the scope of the depositions.
(Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded that any issues regarding scope were
solved via agreement with Defendant’s prior counsel, King & Spalding. (Id.
at p. 66.) In subsequent email communication, Defendant’s counsel disputed that
the King & Spalding agreement was still in effect. (Id. at p. 63.)
Defendant’s counsel also stated “…we remain committed to mutually exchanging
depositions, within an appropriate scope of testimony, if we determine a case
is in fact proceeding to trial.” (Id. at p. 65.) Plaintiff maintained that
the King & Spalding agreement was still in place. (Id.) 
 
Discussion
 
A
motion under C.C.P. § 2025.450 must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating that the moving party has made a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion,
or, if the motion is based on the deponent's failure to attend the deposition
and to produce documents, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that
the moving party has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
(C.C.P. §§ 2025.450(b)(2), 2016.040.) 
 
Upon review of the party’s submissions, the
Court finds the meet and confer efforts of Plaintiff were insufficient. The
Court may deny a motion to compel discovery for lack of a reasonable and good
faith attempt to meet and confer. (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1436-1439; Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 434-435.)
 
Plaintiff
unilaterally noticed the deposition of Defendant’s PMK twice, once in September
8, 2023 and again in October 9, 2023. Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts,
submitted as Exhibits 6-8, did not take place until almost a year later. While
C.C.P. § 2025.450 does not prescribe a time limit for filing a motion to compel
attendance, this gap in time is still significant because Plaintiff’s meet and
confer efforts make no reference to this case specifically. 
 
Plaintiff’s
July 31, 2024 meet and confer letter does not refer to this case by name or
number. The July 31 letter instead addresses all pending Song-Beverly cases and
lists several cases which Plaintiff’s counsel wish to move for deposition on.
This case was not among that list. (See Terzian Decl., Exh. 7 at p.56.) The
same can be said for Plaintiff’s email chain attached as Exhibit 8. Upon
review, the Court can find no reference to this case in that email chain. The
email chain does contain a list of cases different from that provided in the
July 31 letter, but this case is still not present. (See Terzian Decl., Exh. 8
at p. 60.) 
 
While
the Court is sensitive to the fact that Plaintiff’s counsel apparently
maintains a large number of Song-Beverly Actions against Defendant, it
expresses concern that none of Plaintiff’s meet and confer correspondence
pertains to this case specifically. The Court does not see how an omnibus
letter sent six months after two deposition notices constitutes a good faith
effort to meet and confer. Defendant’s counsel would have no reason to know
that Plaintiff’s July 31 letter was intended to address this case because that
letter does not reference this case. Plaintiff’s counsel cannot conduct meet
and confer correspondence en masse and then expect Defendant’s counsel to
divine that this communication applies to a deposition which was noticed six
months prior. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK is DENIED without
prejudice. The parties are ordered to further meet and confer regarding the
deposition in this case specifically. If, after these efforts, Plaintiff is
still unable to take the deposition of Defendant’s PMK, the Court invites
Plaintiff to refile her motion. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Diana Escoto’s Motion to Compel Deposition came
on regularly for hearing on November 8, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PMK IS
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 8, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 