 Case Number:  23BBCV01126    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 8,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01126

 



MP:  


Sosy and Harout Sandaljian
  (Plaintiffs) 




RP:  


Vilma M. Baquir and Emiliano D.
  Baquir, Jr. (Defendants) [No Response]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Sosy and Harout Sandaljian (Plaintiffs)
bring this action against Vilma M. Baquir (Vilma) and Emiliano D. Baquir, Jr. (Emiliano)
(collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs allege that Defendants capped a drainpipe
on Plaintiffs’ property which subsequently caused water to pool under their
home. Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ impeded access to the drain pipe.
Plaintiffs allege a number of damaging consequences resulted from the pooling
of the water. 
 
Before the Court is a motion brought by
Plaintiffs to compel the deposition of Vilma. Defendants have rendered no
opposition to this motion. The Court notes that,
pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose
a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
I.                   
MERITS 
 
As noted above, a failure to oppose a
motion is an indication that the motion has merit. Here, Plaintiffs state that
they unilaterally noticed the deposition of Vilma after their meet and confer
attempts with Defendants’ counsel were met with silence. Plaintiffs’ counsel
sent several emails to counsel soliciting deposition dates but received no
response. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 3.) On February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
noticed the deposition of Vilma for March 7, 2024. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 7,
Exh. 4.) 
 
On March 1, 2024, counsel for
Defendants, Joseph Kang (Kang), emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Euredjian Decl.
¶ 8.) This email purported to attach Vilma’s objection to the noticed
deposition, but no attachments were present. (Id.) Eventually Plaintiff’
counsel received the objections and began working with Kang to secure mutually
agreeable dates. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 9.) Throughout March 2024, Plaintiffs’
counsel contacted Kang several times via email but received no response and were
given no deposition dates. (Id.) 
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel
once again noticed the deposition of Vilma, this time to occur on May 29, 2024.
(Euredjian Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. 6.) While Vilma served a response to Request
for Production of Documents at Deposition, she served no objections to the
appearance. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 11, Exh. 9.) On May 29, 2024, neither Vilma nor
her counsel appeared for the deposition. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 11.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel reached out to Kang, who stated that he had confused this
deposition date for one in another case. (Id.) Despite contacting Kang’s
supervising attorney and several more attempts to schedule Vilma’s deposition,
Plaintiffs received no proposed dates. (Euredjian Decl. ¶¶ 13-15.) 
 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiffs once again
noticed the deposition of Vilma, this time for July 12, 2024. (Euredjian Decl.
¶ 14.) On July 10, 2024, Kang emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel to inform them
that Defendants were unavailable as they were out of the country until October
24, 2024. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. 10.) 
Kang also informed that he was leaving the firm. (Id.)  On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff spoke again with
Kang’s supervising attorney, who informed that Vilma would not attend the
noticed deposition the following day. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 15, Exh. 12.) 
 
Given the foregoing, the Court finds
Plaintiffs have demonstrated that Vilma failed to proceed with the duly noticed
deposition despite multiple attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’
counsel regarding the nonappearance. (C.C.P. § 2024.450(a), (b)(2).)
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ unopposed motion to compel the deposition of Vilma is
GRANTED. The deposition shall take place within the next 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
Here, the Court finds that the
imposition of sanctions would be unjust. The Court has already assessed $4,398
as against Defendants’ former counsel Joseph Kang/The Law Offices of Scott
Stratman in connection with Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Emiliano. (See Sep. 13 Minute Order; Sep. 16 Nunc Pro Tunc Orders.) The Court
is uncertain whether these sanctions were ever paid; however, imposition of
further monetary sanctions is unlikely to secure compliance.   It appears there were duplicative efforts to
depose Emiliano and Vilma, including the same emails, meet and confer, etc.  Imposing additional sanctions for Vilma would
essentially be duplicative of the sanctions imposed against Emiliano.  However, if counsel and the client fail to
attend the deposition as ordered, the Court will entertain evidentiary and/or
issue sanctions.  Nonetheless, the Court
will impose additional sanctions of $933.00 (consisting of the $873 cost for
the reporter and $60 filing fee).
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Sosy and Harout
Sandaljian’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Vilma M. Baquir, Jr. came on regularly for hearing on November 8, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF VILMA
M. BAQUIR IS GRANTED. 
 
THE
DEPOSITION SHALL OCCUR WITHIN THE NEXT 30 DAYS. 
 
THE
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED AGAINST DEFENSE COUNSEL JOSEPH KANG IN THE
AMOUNT OF $933.00.   SANCTIONS SHALL BE
PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
PLAINTIFFS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 8, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 