  Case Number:  22BBCV00674    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 8,
2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE/VACATE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00674

 



MP:  


Gary Carrington
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Lendora Capital, LLC (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
November 14, 2022, the Court entered Default Judgment in favor of Lendora
Capital, LLC (Plaintiff) as against Carrington Transport, LLC and Gary
Carrington (Defendant). The amount of the judgment was $103,144.03. 
 
On
January 5, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion to Vacate the Default Judgment
pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b). The hearing on this motion was continued when, on March
12, 2024, a Notice of Bankruptcy Stay was filed in this case. On August 28,
2024, Defendant refiled the instant motion, although without explanation.  Plaintiff asserted to the Court on October 17,
2024 that they received leave from the Bankruptcy Court to pursue this matter.  This was filed with the Court on October 16,
2024 attached to the declaration of Ashley Mulhorn.  The old and new motions to set aside / vacate
are identical save for the noticed hearing date. The Court notes that despite
Defendant having retained counsel between the two filings, the August 28 motion
still states Defendant represents himself. 
 
On October
17, 2024, the Court heard from both parties at a Status Conference Re:
Bankruptcy. Having reviewed the order of the United State Bankruptcy Court, the
Court ordered the bankruptcy stay lifted and ordered the instant motion could
proceed. Plaintiff thereafter filed their opposition. Defendant has filed no
reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief
provision. (Jackson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Inc. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 166, 173.)  The discretionary
provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent part, reads as
follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of C.C.P. § 473(b) reads, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of C.C.P. § 473(b) is to promote the
determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault
attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the moving party
or its attorney. (C.C.P. § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Defendant’s request for
relief pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b) is untimely. Motions brought pursuant to
this section must be brought within six months of the entry of judgment. Here,
judgment was entered on November
14, 2022.
Plaintiff did not file this motion until January 5, 2024. The bankruptcy stay
has no bearing on Defendant’s untimeliness because this motion was already
untimely filed when the stay went into place. Defendant therefore cannot seek
relief under either provision of C.C.P. § 473(b). 
 
The Court
notes that although the requested relief is unavailable to Defendant, relief
from default may be obtainable through other statutes. At current, Defendant’s
filing does not contain the information required for the Court to ascertain
that such relief is appropriate. Defendant’s motion contains no memorandum
outlining arguments for alternative relief. The Court notes the lack of a
memorandum renders the motion defective under Cal. Rules of Court Rule
3.1113(a). 
 
Lastly,
the Court notes that Defendant’s filings do not include a proposed responsive
pleading as required by C.C.P.§ 473(b). Failure to include this proposed
pleading also necessitates denial of a motion for relief pursuant to this
statute. Other statutes outlining relief from default also require a proposed
responsive pleading. (See C.C.P. § 473.5 [“the party shall serve and file with
the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed
in the action.]; see also Rappleyea
v. Campbell (1994) 8
Cal.4th 975, 982 [holding that relief from default under extrinsic fraud must
be accompanied by a showing of a meritorious case].) 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Vacate Default
Judgment is DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Gary
Carrington’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate came on regularly for hearing on November 8, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO
VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: November
8, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 