 Case Number:  24BBCV00115    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 8,
2024

MOTION
TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case #24BBCV00115

 



MP:  


Valik Vartan (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Kia Motors America, Inc. (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Valik Vartan
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Kia Motors America, Inc. (Kia).
Plaintiff alleges that Kia sold him a defective 2020 Kia Optima and thereafter
refused to repurchase the vehicle in violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Before the Court is a
Motion to Enforce Settlement brought by Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that Kia’s
counsel initially agreed to a settlement in writing but thereafter refused to
comply. Kia opposes the motion, arguing that no such writing exists.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. § 664.6: "If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence
of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part
thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of
the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction
over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the
terms of the settlement." "Section 664.6 was enacted to provide a
summary procedure for specifically enforcing a settlement contract without the
need for a new lawsuit." (Chan v. Lund (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1159,
1165-66 [quoting Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 793, 809-10.]) Under C.C.P. § 664.6, a court may determine disputed
factual issues regarding the settlement agreement and even permits the court
"to entertain challenges to the actual terms of the stipulation, that is,
whether there actually was a settlement … and to interpret the terms of the
settlement agreement." (Fiore v. Alvord (1985) 182 Cal.App.3d 561,
566.)
The Court notes that C.C.P. § 664.6 was amended in 2021 to
clarify the Legislature’s intent that the statutes use of the word “parties”
included attorney representatives. (See Greisman v. FCA US,
LLC (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1310.) 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
On
May 17, 2024, Kia’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel stating the following: 
 
We have authority to
repurchase this vehicle and to pay reasonable fees and costs. I would like to
confirm whether Plaintiff still intends to dispose of the vehicle. Our
repurchase estimate is $28,500. We will need lender records to confirm the
lease payments and apparently Plaintiff paid cash for the purchase. Let me know
how Plaintiff intends to proceed.
 
(Bravo
Decl., Exh. A at p. 13.) 
 
Between
May 22 and June 13, Plaintiff’s counsel then sent Kia’s counsel the requested
lease payments and other financial information. (Bravo Decl., Exh. A at pgs.
11-12.) This occurred over the course of three emails. (Id.) On June 13,
Kia’s counsel responded, “Thank you for the information.” (Id. at p.
10.) 
 
On
June 13, June 19, and June 27, Plaintiff’s counsel sent emails asking Kia’s
counsel for an update on the “repurchase offer breakdown”. (Id. at pgs.
8-10.)  On June 27, Kia’s counsel
responded with their own calculations of the repurchase offer. (Id. at
p. 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded with “These calculations are confirmed.
Offer accepted.” (Id. at p. 7.) 
 
On
July 3, Kia’s counsel sent a proposed release agreement and asked that
Plaintiff’s counsel track any revisions in Microsoft Word. (Id. at p.6.)
On the same day, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a redlined version of the agreement
back. (Id.) A review of the redlined agreement shows that Plaintiff’s
counsel requested a 30 day repayment, rather than Kia’s proposed 90 days.
(Bravo Decl., Exh. B at p. 4.) Among other minor changes, Plaintiff’s counsel
also proposed essentially removing the non-disclosure clause. (Id. at p.
9.) This redlined agreement is not signed by either party. 
 
On
August 2, Kia’s counsel asked Plaintiff’s counsel if they could not just use a
release they used in a previous matter between the firms. (Bravo Decl., Exh. A
at p. 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded that the redlined agreement was
essentially the same. (Id. at p. 4.) Kia’s counsel countered that the
payment periods were different. (Id.) No direct response to this email
from Kia’s counsel is included. 
 
On
August 5, August 9, August 20, and August 27, Plaintiff’s counsel sent emails
to Kia’s counsel requesting an update on the proposed repurchase. (Id.
at pgs. 1-4.) Kia’s counsel admits that they did not respond to these emails.
(Proudfoot Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The
question presented by the instant motion is whether the email exchange between
Plaintiff’s counsel and Kia’s counsel constitutes a writing signed by the
parties within the meaning of C.C.P. § 664.6. This requires the Court to
balance the generally applicable principles of contract law with the stringent
requirements of C.C.P. § 664.6. As will be explained below, the Court finds that
these communications do not constitute an agreement signed by Kia’s counsel. 
 
Contract
law has long recognized that an agreement may be enforceable prior to its
enshrinement in a formal agreement. “When parties intend that an agreement be
binding, the fact that a more formal agreement must be prepared and executed
does not alter the validity of the agreement” (Blix Street Records, Inc. v.
Cassidy (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 39, 48.) On the other hand, because a motion
under C.C.P. § 664.6 is akin to a summary proceeding, strict compliance with
the statutory requirements is necessary. (Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v.
Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.) On its
face, C.C.P. § 664.6 seems to contradict the traditional understanding that an
enforceable agreement can be reached prior to the signing of a formal
agreement. Examining the cases of J.B.B. Investment Partners, Ltd. v.
Fair (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 974 (J.B.B. 2014) and J.B.B.
Investment Partners Ltd. v. Fair (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1 (J.B.B.
2019) helps to clarify this apparent discrepancy. 
 
In J.B.B.
2014, an investor moved to enforce a settlement agreement between various
LLCs and their founding member, Fair. (J.B.B. 2014 supra, 232
Cal.App.4th at 977.) In ruling that the settlement was enforceable, the trial
court found that an email exchange between Fair and counsel for Plaintiff’s
constituted a signed agreement under C.C.P. § 664.6 (Id. at 982.) The
Court of Appeal reversed, holing that for an electronic signature to satisfy
the § 664.6 requirement that the agreement be signed by the parties, there must
be evidence that the parties agreed to conduct a transaction by electronic
means and that the signing party intended with his or her printed name to sign
the electronic record, in accordance with California Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act (UTEA; Civ Code § 1633.1 et seq.). (Id. at
988-990.) The Court of Appeal determined that the trial court lacked the
substantial evidence that Fair intended his email sign-off to be a signature
under the UETA. (Id.) Simply printing ones name at the end of an email
was not sufficient to create a settlement agreement enforceable under C.C.P. §
664.6. (Id. at 989.) 
 
J.B.B. 2019 concerned the same
parties as J.B.B. 2014, though this time the attempt to enforce the
settlement was not made pursuant to C.C.P. § 664.6. Instead, the LLC’s sought
to enforce the settlement agreement through the traditional method of bringing
an independent lawsuit for the enforcement of contract. (J.B.B. 2019 supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at 7.) In making its ruling, the Court of Appeal was clear that
this procedural difference allowed for the more liberal application of general
contract principles. The court rejected Fair’s argument that J.B.B. 2014 already
found his intent to form binding agreement was lacking. (Id. at 13.) The
court clarified that J.B.B. 2014 did not preclude the court from
considering whether Fair’s emails signaled an intent to enter into a binding
agreement under general contract law. (Id.) The court noted specifically
that J.B.B. 2014 expressed “no opinion as to whether plaintiffs can
enforce the July 4 offer by another method, such as a motion for summary
judgment for breach of contract.” (J.B.B. 2014 supra at 991.) 
 
Applying
the principles of J.B.B. 2014 and J.B.B. 2019 to the instant
case, the Court finds there is insufficient evidence that Kia’s counsel
intended to enter into a binding agreement. The release presented as Exhibit B
by Plaintiff’s counsel is not signed. As such, the only signature which could
form the basis for an enforceable settlement agreement under C.C.P. § 664.6
would be the email signature of Kia’s counsel. As J.B.B. 2014 makes
clear, the email signature must be accompanied by evidence of an intent to form
an agreement.  Furthermore, the email
does not appear to contain an electronic signature under the Uniform Electronic
Transaction Act, but what appears to be an automatic signature line that
appears to be autogenerated for the email. (Civ. Code §1633.1 et. seq.)
 
Here,
that intent is lacking. None of the correspondence from Kia’s counsel contains
any wording which could be construed as an acceptance. It is apparent from the
back and forth between Counsel that the repurchase offer left a good deal of
the agreement’s terms to be decided at a later date. Further, the response of
Kia’s counsel to the redlined version of the release reveals the parties
disagreed as to the terms of repayment and non-disclosure. There is no evidence
from the email exchange to indicate that Kia’s counsel intended their email
signature to be anything more than a standard sign-off, the likes of which is
included in nearly every email communication from an attorney at this point.
While these emails could be evidence of mutual consent under common contract
law, they do not constitute a signed agreement within the context of C.C.P. §
664.6 
 
This
Court has not been shy in granting motions to enforce settlement brought under
C.C.P. § 664.6, even when the basis for the agreement is an email signature of
a party’s attorney. Regardless, the cases in which the Court has previously
granted such judgments are ones in which the party seeking to avoid enforcement
has signaled its intent to be bound via an email with language unequivocally
stating they accept the offer. The distinguishing factor in this case is that the
emails from Kia’s counsel express trepidation, rather than consent to be bound.

 
Accordingly,
the motion to enforce settlement is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Valik Vartan’s Motion
to Enforce Settlement came on regularly for hearing
on November 8, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT IS DENIED.
 
TRIAL SETTING CONFERENCE IS SET FOR MARCH 11,
2025. 
 
KIA TO PROVIDE NOTICE.   
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 8, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 