 Case Number:  GC049942    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 8,
2024

MOTION
TO CORRECT CLERICAL ERROR IN JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # GC049942

 



MP:  


Douglas Villalpando (Judgment
  Creditor)




RP:  


Ramsey S. Mora (Judgment Debtor) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Douglas Villalpando
(Judgment Creditor) brings this motion to correct a clerical error in the
judgment he holds against Ramsey S. Mora (Judgment Debtor). Judgment Creditor
states that their prior attorney filed a Renewal of Judgment on December 10,
2023 which improperly designated the judgment as being related to a personal
debt. This error remained uncorrected throughout Judgment Creditor’s attempts
to assign the judgment to P.C. Liang (Assignee). 
 
Judgment Debtor
has rendered no opposition to this motion. The
Court notes that, pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a
failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The Court maintains the
inherent authority to correct clerical errors in a judgment/order so that it
may conform to the judgment/order intended. (C.C.P. § 473(d).) This may occur
via either a noticed motion made by a party or upon the Court’s own motion. (Id.)
There is no time limit in which such a motion must be brought. (Nunn v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 346, 360.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
 
Here, Judgment Creditor states that the
December 10, 2023 Renewal of Judgment contains a clerical error which does not
conform with intent of the March 13, 2024 judgment. (See Exh. 1.) Judgment
Creditor argues that his previous counsel
inadvertently checked the box stating this money judgment “has a principal
amount remaining unsatisfied of under $50,000 and is for a claim related to
personal debt.” (Mot. at p. 1, ¶ 2; see Exh. 2 at p. 2.) Judgment
Creditor argues this checkbox is incongruous with the
judgment in the case, which included an award based on a cause of action for
Fraud. (See Exh. 1 at p. 2, ¶ 2.) 
 
Judgment Creditor explains that the impetus behind requesting this
correction is the disparity in post-judgment interest rates between judgments
related to personal debt and those that are not. Judgment Creditor correctly points out that judgments related to personal
debt are subject to a 5% annual interest rate, while judgments not related to
personal debt are subject to a 10% annual interest rate. (See C.C.P. §
685.010(a)(1) & (a)(2).) 
 
The Court finds Judgment Creditor’s arguments as
to the clerical error are persuasive. C.C.P. § 685.010(c)(iii) defines
“personal debt” as: 
 
[M]oney due or owing or alleged to be due or owing from a natural
person arising out of a transaction in which the money, property, insurance, or
services which are the subject of the transaction are primarily for the
debtor's personal, family, or household purposes.
 
C.C.P. § 685.010(c)(ii)
clarifies that the phrase “due or owing”, does not “…include debts incurred due
to or obtained by tortious or fraudulent conduct or judgments for unpaid
wages, damages, or penalties owed to an employee.” 
 
As the judgment in this
case included Judgment Creditor’s cause of action for fraud, it follows that this judgment
is not for a personal debt under C.C.P. § 685.010(c)(ii). This is because the
judgment makes clear that the debt was incurred, at least in some part, by
virtue of Judgment Debtor’s fraudulent conduct. Given the foregoing, the Court
is satisfied that checked box in the December 10, 2023 Renewal of Judgment was
erroneous. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to
Amend Judgment to Correct Clerical Error is GRANTED. The Court notes that
Judgment Creditor requests the Court sign his proposed order, but that no
proposed order was filed. Judgment Creditor is to file the proposed order
within the next 5 days, after which the Court will review and sign the order.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Douglas Villalpando’s
Motion to Correct Clerical Error came on regularly
for hearing on November 8, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT TO CORRECT CLERICAL ERROR IS GRANTED. 
 
JUDGMENT
CREDITOR IS TO FILE A PROPOSED ORDER WITHIN THE NEXT 15 CALENDAR DAYS. 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 8, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 