 Case Number:  23SMCV01177    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  I The court will inquire of counsel concerning the waiver
issue.  But for the waiver issue, the
motion to compel arbitration would be granted. 

 
Defendant Honda seeks to compel arbitration of this
Song-Beverly Act case.  In deciding such
a motion, the court must first decide whether a valid arbitration agreement
exists.  If it does, then the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration to establish a reason why it ought not
be enforced.  There are some issues, like
arbitrability, that will be decided by the court unless the agreement itself
delegates that decision to the arbitrator.
 
Defendant here is not seeking the traditional equitable
estoppel basis for arbitration.  The
theory behind equitable estoppel is that a non-signatory to a contract may
nonetheless enforce an arbitration agreement if the plaintiff’s case is
essentially based on the contract.  The
rationale is that it is not equitable to allow the plaintiff to demand the
benefits of the contract (which are demanded by suing under the contract) but
disclaim the burdens of the contract (like the duty to arbitrate).    There is a whole body of law on this that
is currently in some flux.  For a while,
the key case was Felisilda v. FAC US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486.  Felisilda applied the concept to a car
manufacturer where the sale agreement was between the buyer and the
dealer.  But other, more recent, cases
have challenged Felisilda’s logic. 
A recent example is Davis v. Nissan north America, Inc. (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 825.  The
theory there is that the manufacturer’s warranty is separate and apart from the
purchase or lease agreement; it is a warranty imposed elsewhere and required by
law.  Accordingly, suits based on that
warranty—which would include a Song-Beverly type of action—would not be based
on the contract, and thus not subject to equitable estoppel.  This court is actually somewhat more
persuaded by the more recent authority and would not be inclined to follow Felisilda, although our Supreme Court has granted review on the question, so if
that were critical the court might await the decision in that case.  The problem, though, is that the clause at
issue, unlike the clauses in the equitable estoppel cases, expressly names the
manufacturer as subject to the arbitration provision.  In that way, this is less of an equitable
estoppel case and more of a third party beneficiary case, which is what
defendant actually argues.  A third party
beneficiary may enforce a contract only where the party can establish that they
are an intended third party beneficiary, not just an incidental one.  This requires showing that: the third party
would benefit, providing that benefit was a motivating purpose of the
contracting parties, and allowing the third party to enforce the contract is
consistent with the contract’s objectives and the parties’ expectations.  Usually, the problem is that the third party
is not expressly named, and indeed, that was the problem in the case now before
the Supreme Court.  Here, in contrast,
Honda is expressly named in the clause. 
It would certainly appear, then, that the parties are deemed to have
known that Honda was intended to benefit from the arbitration provision.  The court finds that this is a material
distinction between the instant case and the usual cases.  It is enough so that the court can find that
Honda was an intended third party beneficiary of the contract and the
clause.  The court is well aware that
“intended” is too strong a word, at least in a lay sense.  While the court has no doubt but that this is
a benefit that Honda intended, and likely one that the dealer intended as well,
it is unlikely that plaintiff here actually harbored a similar actual
intent.  But that is not the test.  Under settled contract law, the parties’
intent is discerned objectively by the words on the page, not the thoughts in
their minds.  Based on the words on the
page, Honda meets the definition and can enforce the contract.
 
There remains a
question whether the dispute at issue is within the clause’s scope.  However, that question was expressly
delegated to the arbitrator.  The
contract is pretty plain on that point, stating that the “arbitrator shall . .
. decide all issues relating to the . . . applicability of this provision.”
 
As to
unconscionability, the court agrees that this was enough of an adhesion
contract so as to meet the first prong of the test.  It is a standardized contract between two
parties of unequal bargaining power and presented on a take-it-or-leave-it
basis.  But that does not end the
analysis.  For the contract to be
unconscionable, it must be substantively unconscionable as well.  Plaintiff contends that the clause is not
mutual—that plaintiff can be compelled to arbitrate, but not Honda or the
dealer.  That is just not a fair reading
of the contract.  The court is convinced
that the clause, read using plain English but in its entirety, is mutual.
 
Which brings the
court back to waiver.  Plaintiff asserts
that Honda simply waited too long and did too much before bringing the
motion.  Waiver is a known defense to an
arbitration provision, and it is for the court to decide.  A waiver can of course be express, but it can
also be implied.  An implied waiver
occurs where the party asserting the right has unduly delayed or taken some
action inconsistent with arbitration.  As
to how much delay is undue, cases vary. 
There are cases not finding waiver even though over a year passed
between the filing of the suit and the assertion of the right.  Others have found waiver after only a few
months.  The court must look at the
totality of the case and the totality of the conduct.  But either way, the critical question is
prejudice.  (Honig v. CJ CGV America Holdings, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 240.) 
Here, aside from the many months delay in bringing the motion, plaintiff
asserts that defendant’s conduct in discovery constituted prejudice to
plaintiff and a waiver.  In reply,
defendant contended that its actual discovery responses always stated that it
would not provide information or substantive responses until its motion to
compel arbitration was decided.  And
defendant propounded very little affirmative discovery, and it seems to have
been aimed at assuring the bona
fides of the arbitration provision
and contract.
 
Plaintiff
essentially argues that it propounded discovery aimed at the merits.  During the meet and confer process, the
defendant constantly stated that it was going to provide supplemental
responses—strongly implying that the responses would be substantive.  (After all, if the only thing that is going
to be in the response is an objection, it is hard to see why that was not done
quickly; little extra time would be needed.) 
When the supplemental responses were not forthcoming, plaintiff had to
file 3 motions to compel.  Even in the
teeth of that motion, plaintiff notes, defendant did not file the motion to
compel arbitration.   In short, by asking
for extensions of time to respond to discovery—indicating that the responses
would be substantive—and by forcing plaintiff to file motions to compel in the
discovery context, defendant acted prejudicially and in a manner inconsistent
with a desire to arbitrate.
 
There is something
to plaintiff’s argument.  Forcing the
other side to expend needless time and effort (and potentially fees) in the
litigation process when intending not to litigate seems inconsistent.  If defendant wanted to arbitrate, the court
is hard pressed to understand why defendant did not just say that forthrightly
to plaintiff early on in the process or provide timely responses to discovery
so stating.  The court will inquire.  If there is a good reason for it, the court
would be inclined to grant the motion. 
But if there is no good reason, forcing plaintiff to expend that time
and effort (and resource) would be enough to establish waiver and the motion
may be denied.