 Case Number:  22SMCV01918    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for an FSC.  The court gave the FSC order on April 11,
2023.
 
On April 5, the court received seven untimely in limine
motions from the defense, and the court received oppositions to them on April
11.  In addition, the court received the
following FSC papers on April 5: (1) Joint Statement of the Case; (2) Joint
Witness List listing 24 witnesses and a total examination time of 36.5 hours;
(3) Joint Deposition Chart including virtually plaintiff’s entire deposition
(the court is not confident that this is really good faith unless plaintiff is
not going to testify, but the court recognizes that this is a document of
preclusion—still, the court wishes that counsel had been a little bit more
choosy about what to designate); (4) Joint Exhibit List including 15 exhibits
and some, but not overly many, objections; (5) Joint Jury Instructions with a
few disputed instructions, mostly concerning CACI 430 or alternatives to it;
and (6) Joint Special Verdict Form.
 
The court has not received any jury questionnaires, but they
are not required if no party wants one. 
The court has not received any trial briefs, but they are optional in a
jury trial.  The court has not received a
statement of unusual issues, but that is not required if there are none.
 
Accordingly, the court believes that the parties have
substantially complied with the court’s FSC order and the court deems the case
READY FOR TRIAL.  The court will inquire
of counsel what the actual good faith trial estimate is for the trial’s length,
all in (that is, from voir dire to the start of deliberations).  The court has one other case still on the
trial docket for April 22, 2024.  The
court will inquire of that case later in the week whether those parties still
intend to go to trial and if so, their good faith trial estimate.  That case has stated a readiness for trial
for a while, but recently a new issue arose. 
That case is also running on the five year statute.  Depending on respective trial lengths, the
court will have one case trail the other, or, if the trailing time looks
significant, will inquire whether the trailing party would prefer a
continuance.  In either case, whichever
trial begins, it will not begin until Tuesday April 23, 2024.
 
On the first day of trial, the parties will bring the
following to court (two sets except Binder 3, for which there should be three
sets): (1) BINDER 1 consisting of (a) the operative complaint; (b) the
operative answer; (c) the witness list; (d) the exhibit list; (e) the short
statement of the case; (f) plaintiff’s trial brief; (g) defendant’s trial
brief; (h) the jury instruction list—agreed, plaintiff’s proposed, and
defendant’s proposed (i) other FSC documents filed; (2) BINDER 2 consisting of
(a) agreed jury instructions as they will be read to the jury; (b) plaintiff’s
proposed jury instructions; (c) defendant’s proposed jury instructions; (d)
joint verdict form or, if there is no joint form, plaintiff’s proposal followed
by defendant’s proposal; (3) BINDER 3 (3 copies) consisting of the exhibits
tabbed by exhibit number with an index at the front; (4) BINDER 4 consisting of
the in limine motions by motion including the motion, opposition, reply,
and ruling; (5) two copies of each deposition transcript that might be used for
any purpose at trial.
 
Assuming that nothing happens at today’s FSC that would
delay the trial, the court will issue its in limine rulings at the FSC.