  Case Number:  19SMCV01008    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here regarding plaintiff’s in limine
motion.  On its own motion, the court
advances the hearing on the sealing motions. 
There are also defendants’ motions. 
Finally, plaintiff filed two more MIL’s on Thursday.  They are both STRICKEN as untimely.
 
As to the plaintiff’s in limine motion, the court
will not rule on it until the FSC and a conclusion that the case is ready for
trial.  Only the trial judge can rule on in
limine motions, and until there is no doubt but that the case is going to
trial, it would not be appropriate for the court to rule definitively.  That said, the court will indicate
preliminarily that the legal question whether or not the agency fee must be
deducted is for the court (maybe the jury), but not for the expert.  The expert may opine on what the number would
be if there is a deduction, but the expert ought not opine on whether
such a deduction is appropriate legally. 
The same is true regarding injunctive relief.  That will be for the court to decide.  It is not appropriate for the expert to opine
that the injunction will be granted and then subtract damages.  That said, however, the expert may, and
likely should, separate future damages from past damages.  Whether future damages will be awarded can
then be easily determined depending on what the answer is to the injunction
question (assuming plaintiff otherwise prevails).  As a more general matter, the expert ought to
strip out most of the adjectives.  The
adjectives tend to cross the line from opinions to advocacy, and it is not the
expert’s job to be an advocate for a party, or at least that’s how the court
was taught.  So things like “speculative”
or “grossly overstated” are troubling. 
The court has less concern over “improperly” because, as the examination
goes on, it will become clear that this means the expert disagrees with
plaintiff’s expert.  And the court tends
to agree that it is not the expert’s province to decide what will “assist the
trier of fact.”  Defendants might want to
revise the PowerPoint along the foregoing lines in advance of the FSC.
 
As to defendants’ motions in limine, the court will
defer ruling until after the 402 hearings. 
All of these arguments really go to that.  The court will also rule at that time on the
alleged supplemental Bania opinion.
 
The motions to seal are GRANTED.  The court believes that the defense has an
overriding interest in keeping financial information confidential and that
putting it in the public file will impair that interest.  However, some of the information is more
current than other parts of the information. 
Further, the court is relatively confident that it is one thing to keep
confidentiality for a motion in limine, but it will be another to keep
things confidential during trial.  The
court warns the parties that it is very unlikely that the court will hold the
trial or any part of it in camera or that the court will clear the
courtroom or seal any aspect of the trial transcript.  If there is confidential information in a
document that is not germane to the case, then the parties should agree to
offer a redacted version only—there will be no unredacted version filed.  