 Case Number:  23AHCV01732    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  X MOTION
TO STRIKE





















 Defendants Jackie Lubrano, Jake Zacuto, and Zacuto Group, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants” or “Zacuto Defendants”) move to strike the punitive damages allegation and prayer for relief in Plaintiff’s
first amended complaint pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure sections 435, 436, and 437.                     Defendants' motion to strike the
punitive damages allegation and prayer for relief is GRANTED as to Defendant
Zacuto Group, Inc. and DENIED as to Defendants Jackie Lubrano and Jake Zacuto.LEGAL STANDARD  A judge may, on a motion to strike made
under Code of Civil Procedure section 435 or at any time at the judge’s
discretion, strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter in a pleading,
on terms the judge deems proper.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  A
motion to strike may be used to remove a claim for punitive damages that is not
adequately supported by the facts alleged in the complaint.  (Cryolife, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1145; Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 696.)  In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  
(Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  To state a prima facie claim
for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the
punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff
must allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code,
 
(1) “Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.) Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to
support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages. 
(See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1033, 1041-1042.)  “When nondeliberate
injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was wrongful,
willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary
damages; such allegations do not charge malice.”  (G. D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975)
49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)  Punitive
damages are not ordinarily recoverable in actions for negligence.  (Ibid.)  Punitive damages are only recoverable if the
plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice, as defined by Civil Code
section 3294(c). DISCUSSION Zacuto Defendants move to strike the allegation
of punitive damages against it in paragraph 40 at 9:21 of the FAC.  That is, “Zacuto Defendants” from the
sentence: “The Sellers’ and Zacuto Defendants’ actions were both oppressive and
malicious within the meaning of California Civil Code § 3294 in that they
subjected the Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship in willful and conscious
disregard of the Plaintiffs’ rights, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to an award
of punitive damages.”  Also, to strike the
Prayer for Relief on page 11, paragraph 3: “For punitive damages according to
proof[.]”  Defendants’ argument centers around
their contention that the FAC is devoid of facts to support a conclusion that
their alleged conduct was malicious, willful, or oppressive as required by
Civil Code section 3294. Under California law, a real estate
broker may act as a “dual agent” for both the seller and the buyer in a real
estate property transaction, provided both parties consent to the arrangement
after full disclosure.  (Civ. Code, §§
2079.14, 2079.16.)  To that end, the law
requires brokers to disclose whether they are acting as dual agents and to
inform the parties that a broker acting as a dual agent owes fiduciary duties
to both buyer and seller.  (Civ. Code, §
2079.16.)  However, “it is not enough to
disclose only the fact of dual representation.  The agent must also disclose all facts which
would reasonably affect the judgment of each party in permitting the dual
representation. [Citation.]”  (Huijers
v. DeMarrais (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 676, 686 [decided under similar former
law].) Defendants admit “they dually
represented Plaintiffs and Sellers for the subject transaction in 2021.”  (Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 9.)  The motion argues Plaintiff only made
conclusory allegations that she is entitled to punitive damages without stating
facts supporting a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud.  The Court disagrees. The FAC claims that Sellers and Zacuto Defendants
obtained an inspection report after a physical inspection of the Property in
2016, and the report showed significant water intrusion, previous
flooding, and leak and building envelope failures.  (FAC, ¶ 33.)  Plaintiffs, in the FAC and in opposition,
argue Defendants owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs while they represented
Plaintiffs during the transaction.  (FAC,
¶ 35.)  The FAC alleges Plaintiffs relied upon the
Zacuto Defendants regarding their decision to purchase the Property, based on
Defendants’ experience and expertise, and that Defendants breached their
fiduciary duties by failing to advise Plaintiffs about the defects in the
Property.  (Ibid.)  Had Plaintiffs been informed of the defects,
they would not have purchased the Property. (Ibid.) Defendants argue the allegations lack
the requisite specificity and particularity throughout the FAC and the
allegations amount to nothing more than a general breach of fiduciary duty
claim, involving no conduct upon which to base a punitive damages claim against
Zacuto Defendants.  (Memorandum, pp.
11-12.)  Defendants also argue the FAC
fails to allege facts demonstrating an agent of Zacuto Group, Inc. authorized
or ratified the alleged wrongful conduct of its employees Jake Zacuto and
Jackie Lubrano.  (Memorandum, p. 12.) “As a fiduciary, a real estate broker
must disclose to the broker’s client all material information that the broker
knows or could reasonably obtain regarding the property or relating to the
transaction.”  (CACI 4107.)  “The facts that a broker must learn, and the
advice and counsel required of the broker, depend on the facts of each
transaction, the knowledge and the experience of the principal, the questions
asked by the principal, and the nature of the property and the terms of the
sale.  The broker must place himself in
the position of the principal and ask himself the type of information required
for the principal to make a well-informed decision.” (Field v. Century 21
Klowden-Forness Realty (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 18, 25.) The Court finds the FAC’s allegations
are not vague—Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts.  The FAC
alleges that Zacuto Defendants knowingly concealed the defects from Plaintiffs.
 (FAC, ¶¶ 22, 33, 40.)  Plaintiff then reasonably relied on these
representations in purchasing the Property.  (FAC, ¶¶ 26, 27, 35, 47.)  Plaintiffs pled with specificity the
representations Zacuto Defendants are alleged to have made.  Accordingly,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs have specifically pled facts to show fraud
within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code to justify a claim for
punitive damages against Defendants Jackie Lubrano and Jake Zacuto. However,
the Court agrees that more facts are required to sustain a claim for punitive
damages against Defendant Zacuto Group, Inc.  When the defendant is a corporation,
“the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly
ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Wilson v. Southern California Edison
Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, §
3294(b).)  Here,
Plaintiffs fail to allege that Defendants Lubrano and Zacuto, or any other
employee or agent of Zacuto Group, Inc. was an officer, director, or managing
agent of Defendant who perpetrated or ratified the fraudulent conduct Plaintiffs
allege.  Accordingly, the Court agrees that
Plaintiffs fail to plead punitive damages as to Defendant Zacuto Group, Inc. The
motion to strike punitive damages as to Defendant Zacuto Group, Inc. is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  The motion to strike as to individual Defendants
Jackie Lubrano and Jake Zacuto is DENIED. CONCLUSION Defendants' motion to strike as to Defendant
Zacuto Group, Inc. is GRANTED with 10 days leave to amend and DENIED as to
Defendants Jackie Lubrano and Jake Zacuto. Moving
Party to provide notice.

Dated: September 4, 2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lauren A.R. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court

Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their intention to submit: alhdeptx@lacourt.org.