  Case Number:  23AHCV01203    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  X MOTION
FOR SANCTIONSDefendant
moves to (1) impose a terminating sanction dismissing Plaintiff’s action
against Defendant in its entirety, or (2) imposing an evidence sanction
precluding Plaintiff from testifying at trial, and (3) imposing monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $1,150.80 payable within 20 days.

            Defendant’s motion for terminating
sanctions is GRANTED.  The Court orders this action dismissed pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (d)(3).  The final
status conference and trial dates set for October 3 and 15, 2024, respectively,
are vacated.           
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Section 2023.030 of the Code of
Civil Procedure provides:
 
To the extent
authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any
other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party,
person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the
following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process:

 
(a) The court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully
asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or
on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction
is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that
sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.
 
(b) The court may impose an
issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in
the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.
 
(c) The court may impose an
evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.
 
(d) The court may impose a
terminating sanction by one of the following orders:
 
(1) An order striking out the
pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process.
(2) An order staying further
proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed.
(3) An order dismissing the
action, or any part of the action, of that party.
(4) An order rendering a
judgment by default against that party.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a)-(d).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Once a motion to compel a party to
comply with a discovery request is granted, continued failure to comply may
support a request for more severe sanctions.  Disobeying a court
order to provide discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).)
 
It appears that since at least
March 2024, Plaintiff has been uninvolved in this litigation. March 11, 2024 is
the date (1) Plaintiff filed a case management statement and (2) stated in
Defendant’s motion that Plaintiff eventually provided further verified
discovery responses. However, she did not respond to or appear at the hearing
on March 21, 2024, when her then-attorney sought leave to withdraw as her
attorney.  Counsel’s declaration on that motion, filed February 5,
2024, indicated that she received no response from Plaintiff when she sent a
Substitution of Attorney form to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff apparently has
not retained new counsel, even though she has had months to do
so.  She has not opposed any of the discovery motions (or any
motions, generally) by Defendant in this case.  She, thereafter,
failed to obey the Court’s orders issued on April 18, 2024, which required her
to attend the deposition and pay $450.00 in monetary sanctions.  As
of August 6, 2024, defense counsel declares Plaintiff has not appeared for
deposition nor paid the $450.00 in sanctions.  (McNulty Decl. ¶ 19.)
 
If a party fails to obey an order
compelling answers, “the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  This
means the court may strike out that party’s pleadings or parts thereof, stay
further proceedings by that party until the order is obeyed, dismiss a
plaintiff’s action, or enter a defendant’s default and render a default
judgment against defendant.  (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(d).)
 
The imposition of terminating
sanctions is a drastic consequence, one that should not lightly be imposed, or
requested.  (Ruvalcaba v. Government Employees Ins. Co. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 1579, 1581.)  However, where lesser sanctions have
been ordered, such as an order compelling compliance with discovery requests,
and the party persists in disobeying, the party does so “at his own risk,
knowing that such a refusal provided the court with statutory authority to
impose other sanctions” such as dismissing the action.  (Id.,
at p. 1583; Todd v. Thrifty Corp. (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 986
[appropriate to dismiss action without resort to lesser sanctions where
plaintiff had failed to respond to discovery and further failed to comply with
the court’s order compelling the requested discovery].)
 
These same considerations apply even where parties are
representing themselves.  Courts have routinely found that parties in
pro per are treated the same as represented parties. (Monastero v. Los
Angeles Transit Co. (1955) 131 Cal.App.2d 156, 160-161; Bianco
v. CHP (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1125-1126.)  “[M]ere
self-representation is not a ground for exceptionally lenient
treatment.  Except when a particular rule provides otherwise, the
rules of civil procedure must apply equally to parties represented by counsel
and those who forgo attorney representation.”  (Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 984-985; Gamet v. Blanchard (2001)
91 Cal.App.4th 276.)
 
Here, the trial is next month, and
Plaintiff has not participated in the litigation since at least March
2024.  Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and appears to have
abandoned the case.  There is no indication that making a lesser sanction
order at this juncture would lead to Plaintiff’s compliance with the discovery
process.  Terminating sanctions are severe but in the face of
Plaintiff’s repeated abuse of the discovery process, a terminating sanction is
“appropriate to the dereliction” and does not “exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
793.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s motion for terminating
sanctions is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to provide notice.
 
 
Dated: September 4, 2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lauren
A.R. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court

Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org