  Case Number:  22STCV34808    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action.
BACKGROUND
ALEXANDER WU, a minor, by and through his Guardian ad
Litem, DI WU (“Plaintiff”) filed a medical malpractice case against KHALED A.
TAWANSY, M.D. (“Tawansy”) and SAN GABRIEL VALLEY MEDICAL CENTER (“San Gabriel”)
for damages resulting from Plaintiff’s alleged undiagnosed and untreated eye
disease that caused Plaintiff’s blindness at the age of five months.
Plaintiff brings a motion requesting an order
compelling arbitration as to Tawansy and staying this action as to San Gabriel.
Tawansy opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD
A party seeking arbitration has the burden of proving
by a preponderance of evidence that a valid arbitration agreement exists. Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842; see also
§ CCP 1281.2.  A party meets its initial
burden simply by reciting the terms of the governing provision, or by attaching
a copy of the provisions.  Sprunk v.
Prisma LLC (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 785, 793. Once the petitioner meets its
burden, “the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may
present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in
support of those challenges.” Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160. 
Where a court has ordered arbitration, it shall stay
the action pending the outcome of the arbitration. Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff seeks an order compelling arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims against Tawansy based on a written agreement covering the
malpractice allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff submitted a
declaration from Plaintiff’s mother, which states that the staff at Tawansy’s
office instructed her to sign various papers, which included the arbitration
agreement.  Decl. Su Su; see also
Mot., Ex. 1. She explained that she did not know at the time she had signed an
arbitration agreement or know what it was but that she acknowledges that she is
bound by the agreement. Id. Plaintiff’s father explained that he did not
receive a copy of the arbitration agreement from Tawansy’s office when he
requested his son’s medical records in January 2022. Decl. Di Wu. Plaintiff’s
attorney reports that he did not become aware of the existence of the agreement
until October 2023, when Tawansy produced documents in discovery propounded by co-Defendant
San Gabriel. Decl. Christopher B. Mears. Thereafter, Plaintiff’s attorney met
and conferred with Tawansy’s attorney regarding the arbitration agreement but Tawansy
refused to agree to arbitrate. Id.
Plaintiff has sufficiently met his burden of showing the
existence of the arbitration agreement, signed by Plaintiff’s mother, which
covers the claims at issue in Plaintiff’s lawsuit against Tawansy. Michaelis
v. Schori (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 133, 137 (guardians can bind minors to
arbitration).
The burden shifts to Tawansy to challenge the enforceability
of the agreement. Tawansy first contends that the agreement is unenforceable because
he did not sign it. “[T]he writing memorializing an arbitration agreement need
not be signed by both parties in order to be upheld as a binding arbitration
agreement.” Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
165, 176. “[I]t is not the presence or absence of a signature which is
dispositive; it is the presence or absence of evidence of an agreement to
arbitrate which matters.” Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 361 (finding a complete absence of proof of
circumstances showing assent). While Tawansy did not sign the agreement, the
circumstances infer his intent to enter into the agreement with Plaintiff,
including that Tawansy’s own office assistant requested Plaintiff’s signature,
and Tawansy performed medical services at an appointment. Decl. Su Su and Di
Wu. Analogously, arbitration agreements often have been enforced against
employees even though the employers never signed the agreement. Additionally,
although above the signature lines, the agreement states, “BY SIGNING THIS
CONTRACT YOU ARE AGREEING…,” the agreement uniquely never defines “YOU,” making
it ambiguous and subject to interpretation as to whether Tawansy must sign it
into effect. Mot., Ex. 1. The Court therefore rejects Tawansy’s argument that
the agreement that his office assistant provided to Plaintiff is not
enforceable against him. 
Tawansy also contends that the agreement is invalid
because Plaintiff’s mother did not know what she was signing and thus there was
no meeting of the minds. This argument is not well-taken. “‘[O]rdinarily one
who signs an instrument which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent to
all its terms. A party cannot avoid the terms of a contract on the ground that
he or she failed to read it before signing….’” Metters v. Ralphs Grocery Co.
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 696, 701. The inability to
understand an arbitration contract is not cognizable grounds to avoid
contracts, because parties are expected to have others read or explain the
contracts to them. Randas v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles (1993) 17
Cal.App.4th 158, 163. Thus, Plaintiff, through his mother, is bound by the arbitration
agreement regardless of whether Plaintiff’s mother understood what she was
signing. 
Tawansy next contends that Plaintiff cannot
authenticate the arbitration agreement but presents no counter evidence disputing
the authenticity of the document. In any event, counsel authenticates the
agreement by referencing it as being part of a discovery response from
co-Defendant San Gabriel. Decl. Christopher B. Mears. Attorneys with personal
knowledge of discovery in the litigation are competent to testify that they
obtained information as discovery responses. E.g., Wall Street Network, Ltd.
v. N. Y. Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1183 (“declaration
establishes that her personal knowledge of the litigation rendered her
competent to testify that respondents had obtained the materials … through
discovery.”).
Tawansy also asserts that Plaintiff waived any right
to compel arbitration by delaying nearly a year-and-a-half after filing the
case (and after the trial date was set) to bring the motion. Participating in
litigation does not by itself waive a party’s right to later seek to arbitrate
the matter. Whether a party’s continued litigation waives the right to seek arbitration
is a factual determination that considers if the party’s actions were
inconsistent with an intent to arbitrate. Desert Regional Medical Center,
Inc. v. Miller (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 295, 316, 321. No established test
determines waiver of arbitration, but courts may consider whether (1) a party’s
actions are inconsistent with arbitrating, (2) litigation proceedings were
substantially invoked and parties were well into lawsuit preparations before
party notification of intent to arbitrate; (3) a party requested arbitration
close to trial or delayed for a long period; (4) a party seeking arbitration
filed a cross-action without requesting arbitration; (5) important intervening
steps occurred such as discovery procedures unavailable in arbitration; and (6)
delay prejudiced, affected or misled parties opposing arbitration. Wagner
Construction Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 30 31. A
trial court’s determination of waiver of arbitration is upheld on appeal if
supported by substantial evidence. Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 980, 991. 
Here, Plaintiff has not waived his right to seek arbitration
because he consistently sought to pursue arbitration once he received the
agreement in discovery, and diligently sought to enforce the arbitration agreement
after failing to reach an agreement with Tawansy. The trial in the case is
nearly a year away and Tawansy has provided no evidence whatsoever of any
prejudice in instead enforcing the parties’ arbitration agreement to resolve
this dispute. Any delay in seeking to arbitrate this matter is in fact due to
Tawansy’s failure to timely provide Plaintiff with a copy of the arbitration
agreement. 
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted. 
Plaintiff and Tawansy shall arbitrate the controversies between them,
including the entire Complaint, in accordance with their agreement to
arbitrate.  This entire case is stayed
until such arbitration has been completed. The Court will set a Post
Arbitration Status Conference with regards to Tawansy and TSC with regards to
San Gabriel in consultation with counsel at the hearing. 