  Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant AIDS Healthcare
Foundation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Tammy Davis
Motion for Summary Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court declines to rule on defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s
evidentiary objections, filed on May 2, 2024, because those objections are
directed to evidence that is not material to the court’s disposition of this
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (q).)
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s request to
take judicial notice of the Third Amended Complaint filed in this action by
plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis on December 28, 2022.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action       . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
(“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting summary adjudication in its
favor and against plaintiff Tammy Davis (“Plaintiff”) on Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for sexual harassment in violation of Civil Code section 51.9.
“Civil Code section 51.9 . . . covers sexual
harassment in certain business relationships outside the workplace, including
the relationship between a plaintiff and a landlord or property manager.”  (Ramirez v. Wong (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1480, 1487.)  “A person is
liable in a cause of action for sexual harassment under [section 51.9] when the
plaintiff proves” three elements set forth by statute.  (Civ. Code, § 51.9, subd. (a).)  First, the plaintiff must show that “[t]here
is a business, service, or professional relationship between the plaintiff and
defendant . . . .”  (Civ. Code,
§ 51.9, subd. (a)(1).)  Such a
relationship may exist between a plaintiff and his or her landlord or property
manager.  (Civ. Code, § 51.9, subd.
(a)(1)(D).)  Second, the plaintiff must
show that “[t]he defendant has made sexual advances, solicitations, sexual
requests, demands for sexual compliance by the plaintiff, or engaged in other
verbal, visual, or physical conduct of a sexual nature or of a hostile nature
based on gender, that were unwelcome and pervasive or severe.”  (Civ. Code, § 51.9, subd. (a)(2).)  Third, the plaintiff must show that he or she
“has suffered or will suffer economic loss or disadvantage or personal injury,
including, but not limited to, emotional distress or the violation of a
statutory or constitutional right, as a result of the conduct described in
paragraph (2)” of subdivision (a), section 51.9.  (Civ. Code, § 51.9, subd. (a)(3).) 
The court finds that Defendant has
not met its burden of showing that the first cause of action for sexual
harassment in violation of Civil Code section 51.9 has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that the element of sexual harassment on the part of
Defendant cannot be established.     
Defendant has moved for summary adjudication
on the ground that (1) it did not directly violate Civil Code section 51.9[1] and (2) it cannot be held vicariously liable for a
violation of Civil Code section 51.9 based on the conduct committed by Tony
Rositas (“Rositas”).  (Mot., p.
6:20-22.)  Specifically, Defendant
contends that, “[b]ecause the alleged sexual harassment/assault was committed
by Rositas, the question is whether there is a triable issue of material fact
as to whether [Defendant] may be held vicariously liable for a violation of
Section 51.9 based on Rositas’ alleged sexual harassment/assault of
[Plaintiff].”  (Mot., p. 9:15-17.)  However, Defendant did not address all legal
theories underlying the first cause of action. 
Plaintiff bases the first cause of action on
two legal theories: (1) the sexual assault committed by nonmoving defendant
Rositas (TAC ¶¶ 108, 114, 116-117), and (2) the creation of “a hostile
environment based on sex” by Defendant (TAC ¶ 107).  As to the creation of a hostile environment
based on sex, Plaintiff has alleged (1) that Defendant knew that its female
tenants were unsafe upon receiving reports of sexual harassment at the hands of
its “male tenants” (TAC ¶ 113) and (2) two instances in which Plaintiff was
subjected to sexual harassment by two male tenants as follows: (i) tenant L.C.
informed Plaintiff that he “fantasize[d] about” her in a graphic and sexual
manner (TAC ¶ 90), and (ii) tenant G.R. “tri[ed] to rub himself onto
[Plaintiff’s] behind” (TAC ¶ 93, subd. (b)).  Thus, it appears that Plaintiff has alleged
the creation of a hostile environment based on sex in violation of Civil Code
section 51.9 based, at least in part, on Defendant’s failure to take action
against the male tenants that sexually harassed Plaintiff.  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1048 [Civil Code section 51.9 provides a remedy for hostile environment
form of sexual harassment if conduct is pervasive or severe].)  
Defendant has presented evidence and
argument in support of its contention that it cannot be held vicariously liable
for the sexual assault and harassment of Plaintiff by Rositas under Civil Code
section 51.9.  Defendant, however, did
not argue or present evidence showing that Plaintiff cannot establish the
element of the existence of a hostile environment form of sexual harassment
based on the sexual harassment of Plaintiff committed by Defendant’s male
tenants as alleged in the Third Amended Complaint.  Moreover, Defendant did not submit evidence
establishing that Plaintiff has limited the basis of the first cause of action
to the conduct committed by Rositas (e.g., Defendant did not submit Plaintiff’s
discovery responses establishing that this cause of action was so limited).  
Thus, Defendant has challenged only a
portion of the first cause of action for sexual harassment in violation of
Civil Code section 51.9, which is improper. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action . . . .”] [emphasis added].)  Because
the court cannot grant a motion for summary adjudication as to only portion of
a cause of action, the court denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for sexual harassment in violation
of Civil Code section 51.9.  (Ibid.)
ORDER
            The court denies defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation’s motion for summary adjudication.
The court orders plaintiff Tammy Davis to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


