  Case Number:  23STCV05268    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND  
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
March 9, 2023, Plaintiff Luis Alvarado Flores (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Amigo’s Building Materials & Hardware, Inc. (“Amigo’s”),
Joel Artega Govea (“Govea”), It Is What It Was Smoke Shop and Mini Mart (“Smoke”),
Darrell Anthony Jones (“Jones”), Guadalupe Zamudio (“Zamudio”), and Does 1-50
for negligence, negligence per se, strict liability based on statute, strict
liability based on common law, negligent infliction of emotional distress, and
premises liability. 
On
April 25, 2023, the clerk entered the defaults of Smoke and Jones. 
On
May 1, 2023, Amigo’s and Govea filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-20 for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and
declaratory relief. 
On
May 8, 2023, the clerk entered Zamudio’s default. 
On
April 22, 2024, Amigo’s and Govea (“Moving Defendants”) filed and
electronically served a motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary
adjudication.  The motion was set for
hearing on July 3, 2024.  On June 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
June 28, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply. 
The Court continued the hearing to August 1, 2024.  On August 1, 2024, the Court issued a
tentative ruling, heard argument, and continued the hearing to March 25, 2025. 
On
October 24, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Ural
Gamble as Doe 1 (“Gamble”). 
The
trial is currently scheduled for February 20, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On November
15, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a motion to continue the trial and related
dates.  The motion was set for hearing on
January 2, 2025.  The motion is unopposed.
 The Court continued the hearing to January
21, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to continue the trial and related dates. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision (b) provides: 
“Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance
or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020,
subd. (b).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave
to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery
heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) In exercising its discretion to grant or deny
this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party
seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons
that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier. 
“(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in
prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any
date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to continue the trial until after the continued
hearing on their motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication. 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial to April 25, 2025 or the next
available date.  The final status
conference will be based on the new trial date. 
The
Court denies without prejudice Moving Defendants’ request to continue or reopen
discovery and related dates.  Moving
Defendants have not provided a meet and confer declaration as Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (a), requires. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS in part the motion of Defendants Amigo’s Building Materials &
Hardware, Inc. and Joel Artega Govea to continue the trial and related
dates.  The Court continues the trial to April
25, 2025 or the next available date.  The
final status conference will be based on the new trial date.  The Court denies without prejudice the
request to continue or reopen discovery and related dates. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.