 Case Number:  23STCV22658    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On September  19, 2023, Plaintiff Catalina Orellana (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Elvira’s Wedding Chapel (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for general  negligence and premises liability.  On  November 17, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.  On  April 12, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s request to file a first amended  answer based on the parties’ stipulation.  On  November 22, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s ex parte application for a  protective order concerning the deposition of Arnoldo Dheming.  On  November 25, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for a protective order concerning  the deposition of Arnoldo Dheming (“Dheming”).   The motion was set for hearing on December 26, 2024.  On December 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition.  On December 18, 2024,  Defendant filed a reply.  The Court  continued the hearing to January 21, 2025.  Trial  is currently scheduled for March 18, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court (1) to limit the scope of further sessions of Dheming’s  depositions by excluding unrelated “confidential” information and (2) to bar Plaintiff’s daughter, Janet Orellana, from attending  future depositions.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Protective order  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in  part:  “(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,  any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly  move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any  order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural  person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or  oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but  is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:  * * *  (5) That the deposition be taken only on certain  specified terms and conditions.  * * *  (9) That certain matters not be inquired into.  (10) That the scope of the examination be limited to  certain matters.  * * *  (12) That designated persons, other than the parties  to the action and their officers and counsel, be excluded from attending the  deposition.  (13) That a trade secret or other confidential  research, development, or commercial information not be disclosed or be  disclosed only to specified persons or only in a specified way.  * * *  (g) If the motion for a protective order is denied in  whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent provide or permit the  discovery against which protection was sought on those terms and conditions  that are just.  (h) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,  subds. (a), (b)(5), (b)(9), (b)(10), (b)(12), (b)(13), (g), (h).)  B.   Nonparty appearance at deposition  Absent  a protective order, nonparties may attend a deposition.  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:  Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 8:698, p. 8E-107 (Cal. Practice Guide).)  For good cause shown, the Court may exclude designated  persons from attending a deposition.  (Ibid.;  Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(12).)  “Sometimes,  deponents invite family members or staff for psychological support or to help  refresh their memory during recesses.  Sometimes,  the lawyer conducting the deposition will invite the press or nonparties whose  presence makes the deponent feel uncomfortable."   (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:699, p. 8E-107.)  “Unless counsel resolve the matter amicably,  one side or the other will suspend the deposition and seek a protective order  [citation].  A showing will have to  be  made that allowing such nonparties to  attend would cause ‘unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression.’ ”  (Id., ¶ 8:699, p. 8E-108, quoting Code  Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b), emphasis omitted.)  DISCUSSION  On  October 5, 2024, Plaintiff served a deposition notice for Defendant’s person  most qualified specifying that the deposition, scheduled for October 18, 2024,  would address the following categories of information:  ·       “The person who last inspected the LOCATION OF THE  INCIDENT (as used herein ‘LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT’ shall refer to the area  where plaintiff fell at the SUBJECT PROPERTY) prior to the INCIDENT (as used  herein the term ‘INCIDENT’ . . .  shall  include the circumstances and events surrounding the alleged slip and fall)”  ·       “The person who inspected the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT  immediately after the INCIDENT.”  ·       “The person most qualified of conducting maintenance  of LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT prior to the INCIDENT.”  ·       “The person most qualified of conducting maintenance  of LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT after the INCIDENT.”  ·       “The person most qualified of reporting maintenance  logs for the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT after the INCIDENT.”  ·       “The employee most qualified concerning the policies,  procedures and guidelines for maintaining the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT in a  condition safe for pedestrians and/or public on the date of the INCIDENT.”  ·       “The person most qualified for cleanliness of the  LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT before the INCIDENT.”   (Exh. B, Davila dec.)  The deposition  took place on October 25, 2024.  Defendant produced Arnoldo Dheming (“Dheming”), who owns the wedding chapel where  Plaintiff allegedly slipped and fell, to be deposed.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s counsel  asked Dheming improper questions about Escritorio Publico, Dheming's other business, and allowed Plaintiff’s daughter, Janet Orellana (“Janet  Orellana”), to be present at the deposition over Defendant’s counsel’s  objections.  Counsel intend to schedule further sessions of Dheming's deposition in his individual  capacity and as Defendant's person most qualified.  Based on the questions asked  and the presence of Janet Orellana at the initial deposition, Defendant contends  that a protective order is needed to protect Dheming from improper questioning  and the violation of his privacy rights.  The  Court has considered the parties’ papers and grants in part and denies in part  Defendant’s motion as follows:  The  Court denies Defendant’s motion for a protective order with respect to Plaintiff’s  deposition of Dheming in his individual capacity.  Defendant has not provided a copy of the  deposition notice for the deposition of Dheming in his individual capacity and  the Court therefore cannot determine the scope of the deposition which  Plaintiff is seeking.  The  Court grants in part and denies in part Plaintiff’s motion for a protective  order with respect to Plaintiff’s deposition of Dheming in his capacity as  Defendant’s person most qualified.  The  Court orders that Plaintiff may question Dheming about both businesses (Elvira’s  Wedding Chapel and Escritorio Publico) which shared the restroom at the premises  where Plaintiff allegedly slipped and fell, but only within the scope of the  questions listed in the deposition notice.  The  Court finds that Defendant has not carried its burden of showing that Janet  Orellana’s presence at the deposition causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,  or oppression.  The Court therefore  denies Defendant’s request to exclude Janet Orellana from the depositions.  The Court denies Plaintiff's request for sanctions. CONCLUSION            The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Defendant Elvira’s Wedding Chapel’s motion for a  protective order.            The Court DENIES Defendant Elvira’s Wedding Chapel’s motion  for a protective order with respect to Plaintiff Catalina Orellana’s deposition of Arnoldo Dheming in his  individual capacity.                    The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Catalina Orellana may depose Arnoldo Dheming in his capacity as Defendant Elvira’s Wedding Chapel’s  person most qualified about both businesses (Elvira’s Wedding Chapel and  Escritorio Publico)  which shared the  restroom at the premises where Plaintiff Catalina Orellana allegedly slipped  and fell, but only within the scope of the questions listed in the deposition  notice.   The  Court also orders that non-party Janet Orellana may attend Arnoldo Dheming’s  depositions.  The Court denies Plaintiff Catalina Orellana's request for sanctions. Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.