  Case Number:  22LBCV00327    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff filed this motion to
compel Meta Development LLC to comply with a deposition subpoena for production
of business records on 8/04/23, setting it for hearing on 10/05/23.  On 9/27/23 and 12/08/23, the parties filed
stipulations to continue the hearing on the motion.  Both stipulations indicated the parties wished
to have the hearing on the motion continued because they were working to
resolve the issues without the need for a court order.  
 
Additionally, while not directly relevant
to this motion, on 1/10/24, the parties submitted a stipulation continuing the hearing
on a motion for summary adjudication and motion to compel deposition testimony
of Michael Burwell, noting that the parties were set to close escrow on the property
that forms the basis of this action on 2/08/24, which would render all ongoing
issues moot.  
 
To date, no party has filed
opposition to the motion to compel compliance with the Meta deposition
subpoena, but it is not clear whether any issues remain unresolved.  The Court is therefore continuing the hearing
on the motion to 4/23/24, to be heard with the motion for summary adjudication,
motion to compel deposition testimony of Michael Burwell, and CMC.  If issues relating to this motion remain unresolved,
the parties must file timely opposition and/or reply papers clarifying what
remains outstanding for court resolution. 

 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.