 Case Number:  22LBCV00808    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Ginger Andre Dolle filed
this action against Defendants, City of Long Beach and Ali Assef for damages
arising out of a series of sexual assaults perpetrated by Officer Assef on
Plaintiff when she was a minor.  Plaintiff’s
operative complaint is her First Amended Complaint, which she filed on
12/28/22.  It includes causes of action
for childhood sexual abuse, sexual battery, violation of 42 USC §1983,
violation of Civil Code §52.1, and violation of Civil Code §51.7.
 

Motion for Summary
     Adjudication

a.     Request
for Relief
            The City seeks summary adjudication
of two issues.  First, it asks the Court
to adjudicate whether it is vicariously liable for a sexual assault committed
by Assef when he was off duty.  Second,
it asks the Court to adjudicate whether any direct liability claims against it
have been sufficiently pled and, if so, whether the City has direct liability
for Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.    
 
b.     Threshold
Issue
i.             
Issue Presented
The threshold issue on this motion
is whether either or both of the issues presented by Defendant are proper
issues for summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff contends they are not.
 
ii.            
Statutory Language
CCP §437c(f)(1) provides, “A party
may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has
no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that
there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that
there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the
Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to
the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted
only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
 
iii.           
Vicarious Liability for Third Alleged Act
Plaintiff alleges Officer Assef
assaulted her on three separate occasions. 
On the third occasion, he was off duty. 
The first stated issue is whether the City is vicariously liable for
Assef’s actions perpetrated when he was off duty.  Plaintiff argues the issue cannot be
adjudicated because (a) it would not dispose of an entire cause of action, and
(b) vicarious liability is not an issue of “duty.”
 
Defendant relies on Lilienthal
& Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848 to support
its position that summary adjudication of a distinct count within a cause of
action is proper, even if the ruling would not dispose of the entire cause of
action.  In Lilienthal, the plaintiffs
sued the defendant for negligence and legal malpractice.  The defendant had represented the plaintiffs
in two entirely separate and distinct matters, and each matter was at issue in
each cause of action.  The defendant sought
adjudication of the claims relating to one of the two representations, and the
trial court denied the motion, finding that, even if granted, it would not
dispose of an entire cause of action. 
The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the claims were so separate
and distinct that, even though they were pled in the same causes of action,
they really amounted to entirely distinct legal “counts,” or causes of action
within the cause of action.  
 
By way of contrast, in Hindin v.
Rust (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1247, 1258, the Court of Appeals held
that summary adjudication was not proper when the complaint alleged numerous
acts allegedly constituting malicious prosecution, and the defendant contended
he had probable cause as to some of the acts, but not all of the acts.  The Court held that the cause of action was
one whole and undivided cause of action, and the statute did not permit the
trial court to parse out the various allegations to determine whether each
allegation would ultimately support the relief sought.
 
This case falls somewhere in
between.  The three acts are distinct,
but so were the various acts of malicious prosecution in Hindin.  The Court finds this case is more similar to
Hindin than it is to Lilienthal, and summary adjudication of one of the three
acts is not appropriate.
 
This finding is made more certain when
the Court turns to the next issue – whether the Court can adjudicate vicarious liability
on a summary adjudication motion.  The Court
finds Plaintiff’s position is correct; vicarious liability is not “duty”-based,
but instead is a theory of liability.  A finding
that an employer is vicariously liable for an employee’s torts does not rest on
any duty running between the employer and the injured person, but instead of a
philosophy of law that passes liability for the torts of employees onto their
employers.  In Hinman v. Westinghouse
Elec. Co. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 956, 950, the Court explained that the justification
is in part based on “deep pockets”:  As
between employer and employee, it is felt that the employer is more likely to
be able to respond in damages to an innocent third person injured by the
employee's tortious conduct (i.e., by working for the employer, the employee
has increased the employer's profits). Also, employers are generally better
able to protect against such risk by insurance, the cost of which can be spread
over the entire business (and passed on to the public).
 
Thus, both because the motion is
directed only to one of three acts that forms the basis of the complaint, and
also because the motion does not address an issue of “duty,” the motion for
summary adjudication of the issue of whether the City is vicariously liable for
Officer Assef’s third assault on Plaintiff is denied.  
 
iv.           
Direct Liability
Defendant argues, at page 18, lines
20-23, “Here, Plaintiff cannot establish any basis for direct liability against
a public entity in California.  Plaintiff
alleges that the City is vicariously liable for her Childhood Sexual Abuse,
Battery, Ralph Act, and Bane Act claims against Assef.  Yet, none of these claims provide any
statutory basis for a direct liability claim against the City.”
 
The Court is not clear on why
Defendant is seeking adjudication of this issue.  The Court has reviewed the operative First
Amended Complaint, and finds it never mentions direct liability.  At ¶38, found in the first cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges the City is vicariously liable for Assef’s conduct.  Similarly, ¶¶44 (second cause of action), ¶55
(fourth cause of action), and ¶61 (fifth cause of action) all contain similar
allegations.  The third cause of action
is not pled against the City; it is only pled against Assef.
 
Because the FAC never mentions
direct liability against the City, the Court finds the motion for summary
adjudication is unnecessary and moot. 
Additionally, it does not appear direct liability is an issue of “duty”
such that it could properly be adjudicated. 
The Court need not, however, make that determination, as no direct
liability assertion is found anywhere in the FAC.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff
argues, at page 22, lines 10-11, that she can prove both a vicarious and a
direct liability theory against the City in connection with her Bane Act cause
of action.  Again, however, she has not
pled any such claim.  To the extent she
intends to do so, she needs to seek leave to amend to assert such a claim.  The Court will determine the propriety of any
such claim in connection with a motion for leave to amend, if one is
filed.  
 

Final Note

The Court notes that the parties have
discovery motions on calendar on 3/26/24 (three motions), 4/04/24, 4/09/24, and
8/15/24.  The hearings on the 3/26/24 and
4/04/24 motions are continued to 4/09/24. 
The Court asks the parties to meet and confer forthwith in an attempt to
avoid a hearing on the motions.  If the
parties are unable to resolve their issues, the Court will likely appoint a
discovery referee to hear the motions.  The
Court therefore also sets an OSC re: appointment of a discovery referee for 4/09/24
at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  
 
If the parties are unable to
resolve their disputes, and if they oppose appointment of a discovery referee,
they must file the following at least two weeks prior to the 4/09/24 hearing
date:
·        
 A joint
statement of items in dispute – this must be one statement, jointly submitted
by the parties, that lists each issue remaining in dispute, the responding
party’s most recent response to the issue in dispute, and each party’s
statement of reasons why a further response is or is not necessary;
·        
A declaration concerning meet and confer efforts
and stating why they have not been successful;
·        
Any briefs or declarations re: appointment of a
discovery referee;
·        
Any briefs or declarations re: sanctions;
·        
A list of proposed referees for appointment.
 
The City is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   