 Case Number:  23LBCV00159    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 1/18/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling continuing the hearing and
requiring the parties to meet and confer with the Court’s prior similar orders
as guidance.  Defendant appeared at the hearing;
Plaintiff did not.  At the conclusion of
the hearing, the Court adopted its tentative ruling as its final ruling.  Notably, the Court specified:
 
If Counsel are unable to resolve
all of their issues prior to the continued hearing on the motion, they must
file a joint statement of items that remain in dispute.  The joint statement must list each discovery
item in dispute, the most current response to that item, and each party’s
statement of why a further response should or should not be ordered.  The joint statement must make arguments
relevant only to the item in dispute, not to the other items, so the Court can
easily and quickly rule on each item.  
 
If the parties resolve their
issues, they must take the motions off calendar using the online reservation
system.  If they are unable to resolve
their issues, they must also file short (no more than five pages) briefs and
declarations detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument
against imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.  
 
Joint statement, briefs, and
declarations are due at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing
date.  
 
Plaintiff timely filed a supplemental
brief and declaration, wherein he establishes that Defendant failed to respond
to multiple efforts to meet and confer and has not served supplemental responses
or documents.  Defendant has not, to
date, filed anything supplemental concerning the motion.  The motion is therefore granted in full.  Defendant must serve supplemental responses,
without objections, within ten days.  
 
Plaintiff’s original motion did not
seek imposition of sanctions, and the supplemental papers also do not seek imposition
of sanctions.  The Court therefore does
not impose sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.