 Case Number:  23LBCV01617    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Harvey Smith filed this
action against Defendant, Sunrise Operations, LLC for damages arising out of a
back injury he sustained while employed by Defendant.  He alleges he was working on the M/V Horizon
Spirit, which is a vessel, and that his injuries are subject to the Jones
Act.  He sues for maintenance and cure,
punitive damages, and pre- and post-judgment interest.  
 

Demurrer 

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he met and
conferred multiple times with Plaintiff’s attorney prior to filing the
demurrer.  
 
c.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant contends Plaintiff’s
complaint is barred by the rule of res judicata and the rule against splitting
a cause of action because Plaintiff previously brought the same claims in
Federal Court, and then claims were tried by jury, resulting in a verdict in
Plaintiff’s favor.  Plaintiff has
appealed the verdict because the jury only apportioned 5% of Plaintiff’s
damages to Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer.  He argues maritime causes of
action require a standard of review that is deferential to the preservation of
a seaman’s right to maintenance and cure. 
He contends Defendant has not shown the federal, as opposed to state,
elements of res judicata exist here.  He
contends the federal judge presiding over the federal case excluded evidence
related to the maintenance and cure claim, and suggested it should not be tried
with the negligence and unseaworthiness claims; he contends neither the judge
nor the jury ever made findings concerning the maintenance and cure
claims.  He contends the rule against
claim splitting does not apply here because the rule does not apply to the
federal case, which is governed by federal law. 
He contends, alternatively, that this court cannot apply a standard more
strict than the federal law standard, and the federal law standard would not
preclude his claims.  
 
In reply, Defendant contends both federal
and state law bar claims that are precluded by res judicata, and that both
federal and state law bar a plaintiff from splitting his claims.  Defendant contends nothing in the judicially
noticeable documents submitted by Plaintiff show some sort of agreement, tacit
or explicit, between Plaintiff and the federal judge permitting Plaintiff to
withdraw his maintenance and cure claim and present it in a subsequent state
court lawsuit.  
 
d.     Requests
for Judicial Notice
Both parties seek judicial notice
of various documents from the companion federal case.  The RJNs are granted, and the Court has
considered all evidence from the federal case in ruling on this demurrer.  
 
e.     Facts
The basic relevant background facts
are not disputed.  Plaintiff filed a federal
lawsuit where he sought, among other damages, “maintenance and cure.”  
 
At the pretrial conference, the
transcript of which is attached as Exhibit 2 to the RJN in opposition to the
motion, the federal trial judge discussed maintenance and cure with the
parties.  The specific issue was whether
the parties could bring up insurance at the trial.  The purpose of bringing up insurance would be
to show that the defendant has insurance, but the context was whether the
defendant personally paid past maintenance and cure or whether the defendant’s
insurance paid past maintenance and cure. 

 
The judge asked the parties about
past maintenance and cure and also future maintenance and cure.  The judge indicated past maintenance and cure
appeared to be moot because the defendant had paid it all, and future
maintenance and cure did not appear to be at issue because the elements were
not met.  Again, the real issue was
whether insurance could be brought up, and the judge ruled it could not.  The judge noted, “If you’re objecting to them
even saying they paid anything, then I guess where we’re at is that you should
not be making a claim for maintenance and cure, and then they won’t be saying
they paid it.”  
 
The Court then discussed the jury
verdict form.  The plaintiff’s attorney,
Brian Beckcom, stated, at page 742 of the transcript, that past maintenance and
cure would probably be dropped, and that he couldn’t tell the Court there would
be a future cure claim, so, “at least from my perspective, that the maintenance
and cure, both past and future, goes away.” 
The Court said OK, and Mr. Beckcom stated, “And we just have negligence
and unseaworthiness.”  The Court said
that would make a cleaner verdict form.  
 
f.      Analysis
Plaintiff contends the Court must
apply the federal, rather than state, test for res judicata.  For purposes of this analysis, the Court is
using the federal standard; the Court uses this standard without making an explicit
determination of whether federal or state res judicata law applies, because the
federal standard is more difficult to meet, and therefore the state standard
would necessarily also be met if the federal standard were met.
Under federal law, the doctrine
applies if the earlier litigation (1) reached a final judgment on the merits,
(2) involved the same claim or cause of action as the later lawsuit, and (3)
involved the same parties or their privies. 
GP Vincent II v. Estate of Beard (9th Cir. 2023) 68 F.4th 508, 514.  Plaintiff contends the second element is not
met here.  There are four factors to be
considered to determine whether the second element is met.  They are:
 
1) whether rights or interests
established in the prior judgment would be destroyed or impaired by prosecution
of the second action;  
2) whether substantially the same
evidence is presented in the two actions; 

3) whether the two suits involve
infringement of the same right; and  
4) whether the two suits arise out
of the same transactional nucleus of facts. 
GP Vincent II v. Estate of Beard,
supra, 68 F.4th at 515.
 
While Plaintiff twists the facts
and analysis relating to the prior lawsuit into all manner of contortions, at
the end of the day, it is impossible to see how this test is not met.  Plaintiff filed a prior lawsuit for
maintenance and cure.  Plaintiff
indicated, during the pretrial hearing, that maintenance and cure was no longer
at issue.  The case then went to trial,
and resulted in a final jury verdict.  
 
Plaintiff had many options other
than conceding maintenance and cure was not at issue.  Plaintiff could have argued, at the pretrial
hearing, that maintenance and cure had not been resolved and needed to be
tried.  Plaintiff could have insisted on
a ruling on the issue.  Plaintiff could
have appealed any determination that maintenance and cure was no longer at
issue.
 
Plaintiff argues Brooks v. Raymond
Dugat Co. (5th Cir. 2003) 336 F.3d 360, 362 is persuasive.  In Brooks, the Court held that a plaintiff
can sue a second time for maintenance and cure if the second lawsuit represents
ongoing medical damages incurred after the conclusion of the first
lawsuit.  Plaintiff admits, however, that
this is not the case here, and that he is not suing for new and different
medical damages, but instead for the same damages that already existed when he
pursued his first lawsuit.
 
Additionally, the parties discuss
the portion of Brooks holding that a plaintiff can NOT file a second lawsuit
for maintenance and cure damages incurred prior to resolution of the prior
lawsuit if the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the prior lawsuit.  Plaintiff argues this holding is not relevant
here because he never dismissed his maintenance and cure claim in the prior
lawsuit.  He did, however, expressly
disclaim the suit for maintenance and cure during the pretrial conference,
indicating it was not at issue.  This is
tantamount to dismissing the claim, even if there was never a formal
dismissal.  
 
As Defendant correctly notes in
reply, under federal law, res judicata acts to bar claims that were previously
submitted and also claims that arise from the same transactional nucleus of
facts.  See Turtle Island Restoration Network
v. U.S. Dept. of State, 673 F.3d 914, 918 (9th Cir. 2012).  Plaintiff’s claims asserted in this case
clearly, at a minimum, arise from the same transactional nucleus of facts as
the claims he asserted in his prior federal lawsuit.  
 
The demurrer is sustained on the
ground that res judicata bars the lawsuit. 
Because this is a purely legal issue, leave to amend is denied.  The Court declines to rule on the issue of
whether the complaint bars the rule against splitting a claim, as doing so is
not necessary to a resolution of the merits of the demurrer.
 

Motion for Sanctions

Defendant served Plaintiff with a
motion for sanctions on 10/10/23.  When
more than 21 days passed, as required by CCP §128.7(c), Defendant filed the
motion with the Court.  The motion is
made on the ground that Plaintiff’s lawsuit is clearly barred by the doctrine
of res judicata and the law against splitting a claim, such that the lawsuit is
frivolous and sanctions are appropriate.
 
The Court has read Plaintiff’s
opposition to the demurrer and motion for sanctions and finds that, while the
demurrer must ultimately be sustained, the issues are complex and Plaintiff
took his position in good faith, such that the request for sanctions is
denied.  
 

Conclusion

The demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.  The motion for sanctions
is denied.  All future hearing dates are
taken off calendar.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email
to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   