 Case Number:  23LBCV00221    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Cristina Alexandra Arnao filed this action against Defendant,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC for Violation of the Song-Beverly Act.  
 
Defendant, Mercedez-Benz USA, LLC seeks to compel Plaintiff to
arbitrate her dispute with it.  It
concedes it does not have an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff, but seeks to
compel arbitration under Plaintiff’s agreement with the dealership from whom
Plaintiff leased the subject automobile. 
Defendant seeks to compel arbitration under a third party beneficiary
theory and also under an estoppel theory.
 
On 4/04/23, the Court of Appeals decided Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company
(2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324. 
In Ochoa, the Court of Appeals expressly considered whether a
manufacturer of an automobile can enforce a dealership’s arbitration agreement
under a third party beneficiary and/or estoppel theory.  The Court of Appeals held that it
cannot.  Notably, Defendant filed this
motion on 12/11/23, and the motion is entirely silent concerning the Ochoa
holding.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, correctly notes that Ochoa is on point and
undistinguishable from the instant motion. 
It considered the exact issues presented here, and found that the
manufacturer cannot enforce the seller’s arbitration agreement under an
equitable estoppel and/or third party beneficiary theory.  In light of Ochoa, the motion to compel
arbitration is denied.  
 
The Court notes that there are no
future hearing dates scheduled in this action. 
The Court sets a Case Management Conference for .
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  