 Case Number:  22LBCV00602    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Jose Antonio Torres
Aldaba and Veronica Barragan Figueroa filed this action against Defendant,
Julie Lee Laven for damages arising out of a two-car accident.  The accident occurred on 10/31/20, and
Plaintiff filed the lawsuit on 10/14/22. 
On 3/17/23, both parties appeared for a CMC.  At the CMC, the Court set the FSC for
11/22/23 and the trial for 11/27/23.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Non-Party Deposition
Defendant moves to compel the PMK
of Ridge Surgical Center, LLC to appear for deposition and produce
documents.  The motion is denied without
prejudice due to service issues.  Exhibit
A to the moving papers is the Notice of Deposition and Deposition Subpoena.  The last page of the Notice of Deposition is
a proof of service of the Notice on Plaintiff, which is acceptable.  The second page of the deposition subpoena is
the proof of service of the subpoena.  It
is, however, entirely blank.  There are
no details about who was served, when, or how. 

 
CCP §2020.220(b) and (c) require
personal service of a deposition subpoena on a non-party in order to compel
that party to appear and testify.  Absent
proof of service, the Court cannot grant the motion.  
 
This ruling is without prejudice to
Defendant’s right to renew the motion with a sufficient showing that Defendant personally
served the deponent with the deposition subpoena.  
 
The Court notes that it received,
on 2/22/24, a proof of personal service of the motion on the non-party.  This proof of service does not, however,
establish proper service of the deposition subpoena itself. 
 
The Court also notes that it
appears the issue between the parties relates to payment of the PMK’s claimed
expert deposition fee.  Defendant, in the
moving papers, provides evidence that the deponent has not been named as an
expert in this case.  There is no opposition
to the motion, either by Plaintiff or by the deponent.  The Court asks the parties to continue to attempt
to work together to resolve any issues relating to the deposition without the
need for additional law and motion practice. 
 
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   