 Case Number:  24STCV06443    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ROBERT
  DELGADILLO,
  
  
         vs.
 
MATTEL, INC.,
  et al.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV06443
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 5, 2024



 
Defendants Mattel, Inc.’s and Steve
Werner’s motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff Robert Delgadillo’s claims
in this action is granted. This case is stayed pending the arbitration.
The Court sets a non-appearance case review for November 5, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are directed to submit
a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the
status of the arbitration.
 
Defendants Mattel, Inc. (“Mattel”) and Steve Werner (“Werner”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order compelling arbitration of all
claims asserted by Plaintiff Robert Delgadillo (“Delgadillo”) (“Plaintiff”) and
to stay the action pending arbitration. 
(Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§1281.2 et seq., 1281.4; 9 U.S.C. §§1
et seq.)  
 
Background
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed his operative complaint
(“Complaint”) against Defendants alleging four causes of action: (1) Whistleblower
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code §1102.5 [against Mattel]; (2) retaliation
in violation of Whistleblower Statutes in violation of Labor Code §§6310 and
6311 [against Mattel]; (3) wrongful termination [against Mattel];
and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress [against Defendants].  
Defendants filed the instant motion on July 30, 2024.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 23,
2024.  Defendants filed their reply on
October 29, 2024.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
A.  Arbitration Agreement
1.    
The Arbitration
Agreement is enforceable
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA
will preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, both criteria
are satisfied. First, Plaintiff agreed to arbitration on January 28, 2022, when
he signed an arbitration agreement with Mattel (“Arbitration Agreement”).  (Decl.
of Burton ¶10, Exh. C.)  Second, the Arbitration Agreement expressly
covers “all disputes or claims past, present, or future, that otherwise would
be resolved in a court of law, by final and binding arbitration,” notwithstanding
enumerated non-applicable exceptions, between Plaintiff and Defendants,
including:
[W]ithout limitation, disputes and claims based upon or related to
discrimination, harassment, retaliation, [. . .] termination of the
employment relationship, tort claims, common law claims, equitable claims,
claims for penalties, claims arising out of or related to any Employee
Confidentiality and Inventions Agreement (ECIA), Addendum to ECIA, and any
other agreement (regardless of its name or title) between Employee and Company
(collectively “Employee Agreements”), and any and all claims for
violation of any federal, state or other governmental law, statute, regulation,
or ordinance.
 
(Decl. of Burton ¶10, Exh.
C at §1, emphasis added.)  
California
law also favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99.)  The public policy in favor of arbitration is
so strong that California courts have held that an employee is “bound by the
provisions of the [arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or
[was] aware of the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th
1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to
order arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an
agreement to arbitrate the dispute.  (United
Transportation Union v. Southern California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
Defendants
proved the existence of an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff.  Defendants submitted evidence that on January
28, 2022, Plaintiff executed the Arbitration Agreement with Mattel.  (Decl.
of Burton ¶10, Exh. C.)
Plaintiff
argues in opposition that he did not personally sign the Arbitration Agreement on
January 28, 2022.  (Opposition, pg. 4.)  Plaintiff argues at on January 28, 2022, he attended
an onboarding session with other new employees at Mattel, wherein Mattel
provided a company-issued laptop for employees to complete necessary onboarding
documents, including the Arbitration Agreement, which Mattel alleges was a
condition of employment.  (See
Decl. of Delgadillo ¶3.)  Plaintiff
argues that due to technical issues with the laptop, Plaintiff was unable to
access or review the Arbitration Agreement.  (Decl. of Delgadillo ¶3.)  Plaintiff argues that when he reported the
malfunction to HR, an HR representative by the name of Judy took control of the
laptop, navigated through the documents, and completed them without Plaintiff’s
involvement.  (Decl. of Delgadillo
¶¶4-6.)  Plaintiff argues Judy assured
Plaintiff he could review the documents later, but by then the system had
already marked the agreement as completed.  (Decl. of Delgadillo ¶6.)  Plaintiff argues he never personally signed or
agreed to the Arbitration Agreement and that any electronic signature recorded
on January 28, 2022, was not made by him.  (See Decl. of Delgadillo ¶¶7-8.) 
Once
a plaintiff challenges the validity of his signature in his opposition, the defendants
are then required to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the
signature was authentic.  (Espejo v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1059.)
Here,
Defendants met their burden to establish by a preponderance of the evidence
that Plaintiff’s signature was authentic.  First, Defendants’ reply provided the
declaration of Judy Sosebee (“Sosebee”), Mattel’s Senior Executive Assistant, wherein
Sosebee declares:
Mr. Delgadillo’s statements
in his declaration regarding my alleged involvement with clicking through his
onboarding documents on January 28, 2022 are not true. As part of my job duties
as Senior Executive Assistant, I am sometimes asked by Mattel’s Human Resources
department to assist with onboarding new hires at Mattel’s El Segundo,
California location. My role in assisting to onboard new hires is very limited,
and does not include using a new hire’s work computer to apply their signature
to Mattel’s employment agreements and policies. While I would try to help as
best as I could to respond to an employee’s request for technical assistance to
access Mattel’s employment agreement and policies, I would not and have not
used a new hire’s work computer to apply their signature to any Mattel
agreement. I also would not and have not used my computer, or the computer of
any other person, to apply an employee’s signature to any Mattel agreement. I
am aware that as of January 28, 2022, Mattel requires all employees to sign its
Arbitration Agreement as a condition of employment. As such, I understand it is
against Mattel policy for any individual to sign any Mattel document on behalf
of a Mattel employee. Accordingly, it has never been my practice to access
Mattel’s online handbooks and agreements “dashboard,” which is where Mattel’s
Arbitration Agreement can be found, through another employee’s computer or
using another employee’s unique credentials. I have also never accessed Mattel’s
Arbitration Agreement through another employee’s computer or using another employee’s
unique credentials and applied their signature.
 
(Decl.
of Sosebee ¶3.)
          Defendants also sufficiently
authenticated Plaintiff’s electronic signature with the declaration of Corie
Burton, Mattel’s Manager for HR Policy and Compliance, whose declaration
explains Mattel’s procedures by which Plaintiff created a unique password known
only to him to log into Mattel’s online dashboard to apply his electronic
signature to the Arbitration Agreement.  (Decl.
of Burton ¶¶5-10.)  Burton’s declaration
also explains how Mattel’s systems immediately notified Plaintiff through his
unique Mattel email address that he signed the Agreement and provided him with
access to the Agreement, which Plaintiff does not deny in his opposition.  (Decl. of Burton ¶10.)  Finally, Burton’s declaration explains how
Mattel stored the relevant data regarding Plaintiff’s signature on the
Arbitration Agreement in its ordinary course of business, thus establishing the
existence of the Arbitration Agreement in support of this Motion.  (Decl. of Burton ¶10.)
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants proved the existence of a valid Arbitration Agreement
with Plaintiff that is enforceable by Defendants. 
 
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Arbitration Clause states that all
disputes or claims past, present, or future, that otherwise would be resolved
in a court of law, by final and binding arbitration,” notwithstanding
enumerated non-applicable exceptions, between Plaintiff and Defendants,
including “disputes and claims based upon or related to discrimination,
harassment, retaliation, [. . .] termination of the employment
relationship, tort claims, [. . .] , and any other agreement (regardless
of its name or title) between Employee and Company (collectively “Employee
Agreements”), and any and all claims for violation of any federal, state
or other governmental law, statute, regulation, or ordinance.”  (Decl. of Burton ¶10, Exh. C at §1,
emphasis added.)  Plaintiff’s claims arise
out of the termination of his employment. 
(See Complaint.)  
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants met their burden of establishing the Arbitration Agreement
covers the causes of action asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
B.
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Plaintiff bears the burden
of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  
 
1.    
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1) the
Arbitration Agreement is a contract of adhesion and was presented without an
opportunity for meaningful negotiation; (2) the onboarding process undermined
any claim of mutual assent; and (3) authentication issues compound the
procedural defects.  (Opposition, pgs. 6-7.)
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
[Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice . . .
Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a
‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’
[Citations.]”  (Roman v. Superior
Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Procedural
unconscionability “focuses on the unequal bargaining positions and hidden terms
common in the context of adhesion contracts.” 
(24 Hour Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1199, 1212-1213.)  Although standard
employment agreements offered on a “take it or leave it” basis are generally
considered contracts of adhesion, this alone is not enough to equate to
unconscionability.  (See Graham
v. Scissor-Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817-819 [“To describe a
contract as adhesive in character is not to indicate its legal effect. It is,
rather, ‘the beginning and not the end of the analysis insofar as
enforceability of its terms are concerned.’”].) 
Adhesion contracts are “fully enforceable . . . unless certain other
factors are present which under established legal rules—legislative or
judicial—operate to render it otherwise.”  (Id. at pgs. 819-820; Harper v.
Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1409 [adhesion alone does not render
arbitration agreements unconscionable]; see also Armendariz, 24
Cal.4th at 114; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps, LLP
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105 [discussing many authorities upholding
arbitration agreements contained in adhesion contracts].) 
Plaintiff’s
argument in opposition that his requirement to sign the Arbitration Agreement
as a condition of his employment is unavailing and is unsupported by case
law.  The adhesive nature of arbitration
agreements in the employment context alone does not render an agreement
unenforceable.  (Lagatree, 74
Cal.App.4th at pg. 1127 [“[C]ases uniformly agree that a compulsory predispute
arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it is required
as a condition of employment or offered on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis.”]; Armendariz,
24 Cal. 4th at pg. 113 [holding that the requirement that the employee sign an
arbitration agreement may contain some elements of procedural
unconscionability, but that, in itself, does not invalidate the arbitration
agreement]; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, LP (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 [“Where
there is no other indication of oppression or surprise, the degree of
procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low[.]”].)  
Here,
the Arbitration Agreement is a stand-alone, two-page document which Plaintiff
accessed on his work computer.  Defendant
notified Plaintiff in clear, bold language about the presence of the Arbitration
Agreement and the document is labeled in capital letters, “MUTUAL ARBITRATION AGREEMENT.”  The Arbitration Agreement contains short
sections with headings describing the contents of each paragraph.  (Decl. of Burton, Exh. C.)  Further, there is no evidence that Plaintiff
was not given an opportunity to read the Arbitration Agreement.  On the contrary, Defendants submitted evidence
that Mattel provides employees the opportunity to review the signed arbitration
agreement at any time be logging into their online dashboard.  (Decl. of Burton ¶9.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate
any procedural unconscionability.  (Hicks
v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 77, 91.)
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is, at most,
minimally procedurally unconscionable. 
However, as discussed below, the Court finds the arbitration agreement
is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
2.    
Substantive
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it limits
Plaintiff to no more than three depositions, regardless of the number of
relevant witnesses or the complexity of the dispute.  (Opposition, pgs. 7-8.)
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
[Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but
typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is
‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for
example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’
[Citations].”  (Roman, 172
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1469-1470.)  In
determining whether an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, the Court
considers whether the agreement: (1) provides for a neutral arbitrator; (2)
provides for reasonable discovery; (3) requires a written award; (4) provides
for the same remedies that otherwise would be available in court; and (5) does
not require employees to bear costs unique to arbitration.  (See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pgs.
102-103.)
Plaintiff’s
argument that the discovery permitted under the Arbitration Agreement is
inadequate is unavailing.  Here, the
Arbitration Agreement both Plaintiff and Mattel, as an initial right,
with three fact witness deposition.  (Decl.
of Burton ¶10, Exh. C at §5.)  Moreover,
“the Arbitrator has the exclusive authority to grant request for additional
discovery” by either party.  (Decl. of Burton
¶10, Exh. C at §5.)  As such, the
Arbitrator, not Mattel, has discretion to grant a request for additional discovery.
 This discovery is adequate, reasonable,
and satisfies Armendariz.  (Armendariz,
24 Cal. 4th at pg. 106.)
Plaintiff
identifies no other issues with the Arbitration Agreement to support his claim
that it is substantively unconscionable.
Based
on the evidence before the Court, the terms of the Arbitration Agreement do not
create overly harsh or one-sided results, satisfying the requirements for a
substantively conscionable agreement.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
C.   
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
this case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
D.  
Conclusion
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 

The case is
stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a non-appearance case review for November
5, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are
directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising
the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
 
Dated:  November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  