 Case Number:  22SMCV02450    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba’s Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff’s (A Permanently Revoked Corporation) First Amended Complaint is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc. is given the opportunity to cure its revoked corporate status and render the corporate entity as existing in good standing. Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc. shall file evidence that it is an active corporation in good standing within thirty (30) days of entry of this order, or Plaintiff’s complaint will be dismissed, and its default will be entered as to Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, and BDMGMT Partners, LLC’s cross-complaint.Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba to give notice. REASONINGRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba (“Defendants”) request judicial notice of Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)’s First Amended Complaint in this action, Defendants’ answer, a certified copy of the Nevada Secretary of State record of entity status of Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc., and a certified copy of all requested statements and related subsequent documentation filed with the Nevada Secretary of State’s Office, Commercial Recordings Division, regarding Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc. Defendants’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d).AnalysisDefendants move the Court for an order dismissing Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint if Plaintiff does not cure its lack of capacity and present proof of the same to this Court. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s lack of corporate capacity was not pled in the complaint, Defendants pled the lack of corporate capacity in their answer, and a motion to dimiss is, therefore, proper. Plaintiff does not dispute that it is a revoked corporation; instead, Plaintiff argues that Defendants waived their claims of lack of capacity because they were dilatory in filing their motion, Nevada law allows a corporate entity to sue and be sued, California law allows a dissolved corporation to wind up its affairs, and Plaintiff can become current within thirty (30) days.First, insofar as Plaintiff argues that Defendants did not timely raise the issue of Plaintiff’s corporate status, defense counsel states that the parties met and conferred about this issue of capacity both before this action was filed and after, and Defendants did not file this motion because the parties were engaged in mediation. (Mot., Maher Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) The Court assumes that Defendants intended to avoid court intervention on this issue if the action could be resolved, and Defendants filed this motion only eight days after mediation. (Mot., Maher Decl. ¶ 7.) The Court finds that Defendants have not improperly delayed in filing this motion. In California, a corporation whose powers have been suspended lacks capacity to sue and, if sued, it lacks capacity to defend in California courts. (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603-1604.) However, “a suspended corporation which pays its taxes and obtains a certificate of revivor during the pendency of an action may be allowed to carry on the litigation, even to the extent of validating otherwise invalid prior proceedings.” (Gar-Lo. Inc. v. Prudential Savings & Loan Association (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 242, 244.) Notably, the purpose of the statutory prohibition of prosecuting or defending an action while suspended “is to induce the payment of taxes.” (Ibid.)Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that it is “winding up”; rather, the evidence indicates that Plaintiff is a revoked corporation. (See Trahan v. Trahan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 62, 72 [defining “the process of winding up” as “remain[ing] in existence to liquidate and wind up (really, ‘wind down’): i.e., to pay or make provision for payment of its debts; to distribute its remaining assets to its shareholders; and to file a certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State”].) Insofar as Plaintiff argues that Nevada law applies to this action, the agreement providing the basis of Plaintiff’s claims, attached to the First Amended Complaint as Exhibit A, states that it is subject to the laws of the State of California. (First Am. Compl. ¶ 11, Ex. A, at § 10.6.) Plaintiff provides no basis for disregarding this term of the subject agreement.Accordingly, Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba’s Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff’s (A Permanently Revoked Corporation) First Amended Complaint is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc. is given the opportunity to cure its revoked corporate status and render the corporate entity as existing in good standing. Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc. shall file evidence that it is an active corporation in good standing within thirty (30) days of entry of this order, or Plaintiff’s complaint will be dismissed, and its default will be entered as to Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, and BDMGMT Partners, LLC’s cross-complaint.