 Case Number:  23SMCV02101    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
New
Carla, LLC v. Schwarz, case no. 23SMCV02101
Hearing
date 5/9/24
Defendant
Schwarz’s Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment
In this
unlawful detainer matter, plaintiff obtained a default judgment against
defendant tenant for $106,766.52 on 8/23/23. Defendant moves to set aside, pursuant
to CCP 473.5(a), (b), arguing she was not properly served and had no notice of
the action. 
Plaintiff
leased a home in Beverly Hills to defendant Schwarz. Defendant alleges she
vacated the premises from 2/12/23-4/23 due to mold, water and fire damage at
the property. Schwarz decl., para. 3. 
Defendant
was allegedly substitute served on 5/20/23. Per the process server Alpisa, a
Jane Doe was served. Defendant Schwarz alleges she was in Cannes, France at
that time (5/14/23-5/23/23) and had no co-occupants. Schwarz decl., para. 5.  Defendant argues the proof of service is
false, as she was not home, had no co-occupant and is unaware of anyone
matching the description given of Jane Doe. Defendant states she did not
receive notice via mail. 
On 6/30/23
defendant was served with a writ for ‘possession only’ by the Sheriff. Schwarz
decl., para. 6. Defendant stated the first time she was made aware of the suit seeking
money damages was in February 2024. Schwarz decl., para. 7, but she does not
state how she was made aware. 
Plaintiff
argues defendant was aware of the suit and in fact she contacted plaintiff on
5/26/23 asking for contact information for plaintiff’s counsel. On 6/5/23, defendant
sent an email to plaintiff stating she had spoken to plaintiff’s attorney. However,
plaintiff does not attach these emails or submit a declaration regarding those
emails. Further, nothing in the alleged emails states defendant was aware
litigation seeking money damages had been commenced.
A party
may move to set aside when there is no actual notice per CCP 473.5. CCP 413.10
states a summons must be properly served. Plaintiff has the burden of proof
regarding service. Plaintiff fails to meet their burden. 
There is a
public policy preference for litigating matters on their merits, rather than
proceeding via default. Considering that public policy favors
relief, the court is inclined to exert its inherent equitable powers to set
aside the default and default judgment. However, defendant does not provide
evidence regarding how and when she allegedly learned of the suit and whether
she promptly moved to set aside the default. 
Defendant may provide supplemental papers with
evidence regarding when and how she discovered the default or default judgment
and how she proceeded in a timely manner to seek relief from the default and
default judgment. The matter may be continued to allow defendant to submit such
supplemental declaration. 