  Case Number:  23PSCP00375    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Alaa  Latif, M.D., F.A.C.P., et al. v. Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center Petition to  Correct/Vacate Arbitration Award TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES the petition to correct/vacate arbitration award.               Prevailing party is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract action. On August 17, 2023,  Petitioners Alaa Latif, M.D., F.A.C.P. (Dr. Latif) and Alaa Latif, M.D., Inc.  (Latif Inc.) (collectively, Petitioners), filed the instant petition to  correct/vacate arbitration award in connection with an arbitration against  Respondent Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (Respondent). On September 6,  2023, Respondent opposed the petition. On September 20, 2023, Petitioners  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD “Subject to Section 1286.8, the court, unless it  vacates the award pursuant to Section 1286.2, shall correct the award and confirm  it as corrected if the court determines that: (a) There was an evident miscalculation of figures or  an evident mistake in the description of any person, thing or property referred  to in the award; (b) The arbitrators exceeded their powers but the  award may be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the  controversy submitted; or (c) The award is imperfect in a matter of form, not  affecting the merits of the controversy.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.6.)  “(a)  Subject to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the award if the court  determines any of the following: (1) The award was procured by  corruption, fraud or other undue means. (2) There was corruption in any  of the arbitrators. (3) The rights of the party were  substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator. (4) The arbitrators exceeded  their powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of  the decision upon the controversy submitted. (5) The rights of the party were  substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the  hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor or by the refusal of the  arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy or by other conduct of  the arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this title. (6) An arbitrator making the  award either: (A) failed to disclose within the time  required for disclosure a ground for disqualification of which the arbitrator  was then aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification upon grounds  specified in Section 1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely demand to  disqualify himself or herself as required by that provision. However, this  subdivision does not apply to arbitration proceedings conducted under a  collective bargaining agreement between employers and employees or between  their respective representatives. (b) Petitions to vacate an arbitration award  pursuant to Section 1285 are subject to the provisions of Section 128.7.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 1286.2.)              “Under  CCP § 1286, the court must confirm, correct or vacate the award or dismiss  the petition. [Citation].” (J. Challenging and Enforcing Arbitrator's Award in  Court, Cal. Prac. Guide Alt. Disp. Res. Ch. 5-J, italics in original.) “Statutes  set forth specific grounds upon which an arbitrator's award may be vacated [citations]  or corrected [citations].  Except on these grounds, arbitration awards are immune from  judicial review in proceedings to challenge or enforce the award.” (Id.,  italics in original.)  DISCUSSION Final Award Against Dr. Latif  Individually Petitioners contend the final award based on the counterclaim for  breach of contract should not be entered against Dr. Latif personally.  Petitioners contend the contract was only between Latif Inc. and Respondent,  and that Dr. Latif’s signature to the Independent Contractor Agreement for  Professional Services (the Agreement) does not make Dr. Latif a party to the  Agreement. The Court disagrees.  The Court finds the arbitrator’s ruling here to be  proper. “As a rule, courts defer to arbitrators in determining the extent and  meaning of arbitration agreements. [Citation.]” (Taylor v. Crane  (1979) 24 Cal.3d 442, 450.) The Agreement recites that it is by and between the  Hospital and Latif, Inc. and identifies Dr. Latif as “Physician” and the sole  shareholder of Latif, Inc. (Petition, Attachment 4, subd. (a), preamble  paragraph.) Section II of the Agreement sets forth various duties and  responsibilities that only Dr. Latif can fulfill in his individual capacity.  (Petition, Attachment 4, subd. (b), ¶ 2.) The language above the signature  block where Dr. Latif signed the Agreement states, “ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO  BY:  ‘PHYSICIAN’”. (Id., at p. 34.)  Thus, Dr. Latif signed the Agreement individually, indicating that he  acknowledged and agreed to the terms. “[O]rdinarily one who signs an instrument  which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent to all its terms.” (Rodriguez v. Am. Techs., Inc. (2006) 136 Cal. App.  4th 1110, 1124.) If Dr. Latif did not intend to be bound by the terms of the  Agreement, he should not have signed it and there should have been no signature  block for him to sign in his individual capacity. (See Russell v. Union Oil Co. (1970) 7 Cal.App. 3d 110, 114  [“‘Mutual assent is gathered from the reasonable meaning of the words and acts  of the parties, and not from their unexpressed intentions or understanding.’ [Citation.]”)  It would make no sense otherwise to have Dr. Latif sign the Agreement if he was  not intended to be a party to it and did not intend to be bound by its terms.  The Court further agrees with Respondent that  Dr. Latif is equitably estopped from claiming he was not a party to the  Agreement.  When a plaintiff brings a  claim which relies  on contract terms against a defendant, the plaintiff may be  equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in that  agreement. [Citations.] There is no reason why this doctrine should not be  equally applicable to a nonsignatory plaintiff. When that plaintiff is  suing on a contract—on the basis that, even though the plaintiff was not a  party to the contract, the plaintiff is nonetheless entitled to recover for its  breach, the plaintiff should be equitably estopped from repudiating the  contract's arbitration clause. [Citations.]  This is particularly true  where, as appears to be the case here, all of the plaintiffs, signatory and  nonsignatory, are related entities. A nonsignatory can be compelled to  arbitrate when a preexisting relationship existed between the nonsignatory and  one of the parties to the arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel  the nonsignatory to arbitrate as well. [Citation.] Additionally, a  nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate when it is suing as a third-party  beneficiary of the contract containing the arbitration clause [citation]; this  too weighs in favor of enforcing the arbitration clause in this case.  (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193  Cal.App.4th 1222, 1239-1240, italics in original.)              Dr. Latif is one of the claimants to  the underlying arbitration. (Compendium of Evidence, Exs. 3–9, 17–26.) Dr. Latif individually, in addition to his PC, filed a Detailed Statement of Claims in which he sought damages against Respondent. Petitioners are related parties, as Dr. Latif is the sole  shareholder of Latif Inc. (Id., Ex. 3, p. 4.) Petitioners’ claims against  Respondent were for breach of contract based on the Agreement, breach of the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unjust enrichment, and retaliation in  violation of Health and Safety Code section 1278.5. (Id., Ex. 3.) Dr.  Latif cannot both seek the benefits of enforcing the Agreement against  Respondent while avoiding its burdens. Additionally, Dr. Latif concedes he is  not suing as a third-party beneficiary since the Agreement expressly states it  has no third-party beneficiaries. (Petitioners’ Memorandum of Points and  Authorities, p. 8:12-14; Petition, Attachment 4, subd. (b), ¶ 8.5.)              Furthermore,  the Court also agrees with Respondent that Dr. Latif waived any jurisdictional issues  here by: (1) submitting a Detailed Statement of Claims in which he sought  damages against Respondent, (Compendium of Evidence, Ex. 3); (2) appearing at  the arbitration hearing without raising any objections to the jurisdiction of  the arbitrator, (see Id., Exs., 23-26; Cabrera v. Plager (1987)  195 Cal.App.3d 606, 613 fn. 8); and (3) throughout the proceedings, individually seeking affirmative relief against Respondent but never objecting to Respondent seeking relief against Dr. Latif individually (Compendium of Evidence, Ex. 19).               Based  on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the petition to correct/vacate the  arbitration award as to Dr. Latif on the purported grounds that he was not a  party to the Agreement.  Repayment for Governmental Payors  and Improper Upcoding             Petitioners contend that the arbitrator exceeded her  powers by ruling on matters outside the scope of the issues submitted for  determination. More specifically, Petitioners contend the Agreement limits the  scope of issues for arbitration to those that the parties had addressed via  written notices per paragraph 8.3, subdivision (a) of the Agreement.  Petitioners argue that this limited the scope of issues addressed in  arbitration to audited claims that were submitted to governmental payors. The  Court disagrees.              “The arbitrator's powers may be expanded or restricted by  the scope of the issues submitted to arbitration. [Citation.] “ ‘The parties  may submit for decision issues they were not contractually compelled to submit  to arbitration. In such event, courts look both to the contract and to the scope of  the submissions to determine the arbitrator's authority.’ [Citations.]” (Kelly Sutherlin McLeod Architecture, Inc. v. Schneickert (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 519, 529; see also Kennedy,  Cabot & Co. v. Nat’l Ass’n of Sec. Dealers, Inc. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th  1167, 1175 [“Arbitration submissions are usually construed as broadly as  possible in order that differences between the parties may be resolved quickly  and economically. Under the rule of broad construction an arbitrator is  authorized to determine all questions which he needs to determine in order to  resolve the controversy submitted to him, and the arbitrator himself decides  which questions need to be determined…”])  Respondent raised all of its counterclaims in its Corrected  Answer, Affirmative Defenses, and Counterclaims. (Compendium of Evidence, Ex. 4.)  Respondent’s counterclaims covered the issue of repayments Respondent made to  governmental payors and the issue of overpayments to Petitioners due to Dr.  Latif’s improper upcoding. (Id., Counterclaims, ¶¶ 9–11, 23–24.) Petitioners  never objected to this purportedly improper inclusion of other issues until  after the issuance of the interim arbitration award. (See Id., Exs. 19, 21,  23-26.) Petitioners therefore waived any right to challenge these issues. (Cabrera,  supra, 195 Cal.App.3d at p. 613 fn. 8; J.C. Gury Co. v. Nippon Carbide  Indus. (USA) Inc., 152 Cal.App.4th 1300, 1302-1306 (2007) (“A party cannot  wait until after an award is made to claim that an issue expressly presented to  the arbitrator for decision is beyond h[er] authority.”).)              Based on the foregoing, the Court  DENIES the petition to correct/vacate the arbitration award on the grounds that  the arbitrator ruled on matters outside the scope of the arbitration.              Evidence Regarding Contractual  Overpayment and Respondent’s Expert Opinions             Petitioners contend there was no evidence of contractual  overpayment as framed by the dispute and the pleadings, except for the  third-party auditor’s calculation of $200,300.69. Petitioners further contend  that expert evidence submitted by Respondent during the arbitration failed to  properly calculate the overpayment per paragraphs 1.5, subdivision (a) and 5.1  of the Agreement, and that the arbitrator improperly relied on Respondent’s  expert’s “90th percentile” calculation. (Petitioners’ Memorandum of  Points and Authorities, pp. 13:1-14:2.) The Court disagrees.   First, the  Court may not consider the sufficiency of the evidence that supported the final  arbitration award. (Morris v. Zuckerman (1968) 69 Cal.2d 686, 691; see  also Paramount Unified Sch. Dist. v. Tchrs. Assn. of Paramount  (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 1371, 1384 [“To the extent that appellant's argument is  intended to be a challenge to the method or formula employed by the arbitrator  to calculate Frelix's compensatory damages, we do not address this issue  because it is at most an error of law, not reviewable by the courts.”])  Second, even if the Court were to consider these  arguments, they would still fail because Petitioners fail to show an evident  miscalculation apparent on the face of the award. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.6,  subd. (a).) Petitioners do not cite to the final arbitration award to  demonstrate where on the face of the award the evident miscalculation  purportedly is. (See Petitioners’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities, 14:3-12.)             Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the petition to  correct/vacate the arbitration award regarding the arbitrator’s damage  calculations.              Award  of Attorney’s Fees             Petitioners  contend the arbitrator exceeded her authority by awarding Respondent attorney’s  fees and costs. Petitioners contend the Agreement limits the award of  attorney’s fees and costs to instances in which the arbitrator determines that  the claims or causes of action of the party who initiated the arbitration were  frivolous and without reasonable foundation. (Petition, Attachment 4, subd.  (b), ¶ 8.3, subd. (viii).) The Court disagrees.              The  Court agrees with Respondent that Petitioners’ citation to paragraph 8.3,  subdivision (viii) of the Agreement omits key qualifying language, i.e., “Subject  to subsection ix below…” (Petition, Attachment 4, subd. (b), ¶ 8.3,  subd. (viii), underline in original.) Subsection (ix) of the Agreement provides  that, “[t]he arbitrator may, in the award, allocate all or part of the costs of  the arbitration, including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable  attorneys’ fees of the prevailing party.” (Id., ¶ 8.3, subd. (ix).)  Subsection (viii) merely provides that in cases involving frivolous claims, the  arbitrator is required to impose the costs and expenses of the arbitration  on the party who filed a frivolous claim. Otherwise, the arbitrator has the discretion  to award the costs and expenses of the arbitration, including reasonable  attorneys’ fees, to the prevailing party. In this case, the arbitrator  determined Respondent was the prevailing party and awarded attorneys’ fees and  costs accordingly. (Petition, Attachment 8, subd. (c), pp. 8-9.)              Moreover,  the Court also agrees with Respondent that Petitioners waived this argument.  Petitioners challenged other issues raised in the arbitrator’s interim award,  but they did not challenge the issue of attorneys’ fees and costs. (See Compendium  of Evidence, Ex. 19; Comerica Bank v. Howsam (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 790, 829 [“In order to  challenge an award in court, a litigant must have raised the point before the  arbitrator. [Citation.]”])  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES  the petition to correct/vacate arbitration award regarding the award of  attorney’s fees.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES the petition to correct/vacate arbitration award.               Prevailing party is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.