 Case Number:  23PSCV01609    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:                           Wu-Wei  Chu v. Tai-Li Chu Motion for an  Order Deeming Admitted First Set Requests for Admission Propounded to Defendant  Tai-Li Chu and for Sanctions; and .     Motion for an  Order Compelling Responses to First Set Form Interrogatories and for Sanctions  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for an order deeming admitted  first set Requests for Admission propounded to Defendant Tai-Li Chu as moot.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced  amount of $510.00 against Defendant Tai-Li Chu. Said monetary sanctions are to  be paid within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling  responses to first set Form Interrogatories as moot. The Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $510.00 against  Defendant Tai-Li Chu. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid within 20 days of  the Court’s order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is an unlawful detainer action. On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff Wu-Wei  Chu (Plaintiff) filed this action against DefendantTai-Li Chu (Defendant) and  Does 1 through 10 for unlawful detainer.  On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order deeming  admitted first set of Requests for Admission and a motion for an order  compelling responses to first set Form Interrogatories against Defendant. On November  6, 2023, Defendant opposed the motions. On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD Notwithstanding subdivision (a), in an unlawful  detainer action or other proceeding under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section  1159) of Title 3 of Part 3, the party to whom the interrogatories are  propounded shall have five days from the date of service to respond, unless on  motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response,  or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for  response.(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (b).) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), in an unlawful  detainer action or other proceeding under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section  1159) of Title 3 of Part 3, the party to whom the request is directed shall  have at least five days from the date of service to respond, unless on motion  of the requesting party the court has shortened the time for response, or  unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for  response.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250,  subd. (b).)  DISCUSSION             Plaintiff moves the Court to issue  an order deeming the truth of the matters specified in Requests for Admissions,  Set One admitted as to Defendant, and for an order compelling responses to Form  Interrogatories, Set One against Defendant. Plaintiff served the underlying  discovery requests on Defendant on August 28, 2023, and did not receive any  responses by the time Plaintiff filed the motions, despite having granted  extensions and otherwise engaged in meet and confer efforts. (Rao Decls., ¶¶ 2-9.)              Defendant’s oppositions indicate  that Defendant provided Plaintiff with verified responses to these discovery  requests. (Young Decls., Exs. A, B.) The Court finds Defendant’s responses moot Plaintiff’s motions. Accordingly, the Court DENIES  Plaintiff’s motions as moot.              Nevertheless, the Court may still  consider the issue of sanctions. "[P]roviding untimely responses does not divest the trial court of  its authority [to hear a motion to compel responses].” (Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 390, 407.) Even if the untimely response “does not contain  objections [and] substantially resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion to  compel responses…the trial court retains the authority to hear the  motion.” (Id. at pp. 408-409.) This rule gives “an important  incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.” (Id.  at p. 408.) If “the propounding party [does not] take the motion off  calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial court may  “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in  part, and just impose sanctions.” (Id. at p. 409; see also Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a) [“The court may award sanctions under the  Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even  though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was  withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after  the motion was filed”].)  Plaintiff  properly attempted to resolve these discovery issues before bringing these  motions, even though such meeting and conferring was not technically required  for these motions. (See Rao Decls., ¶¶ 2-9; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,  Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 404.) The actions of Defendant unnecessarily  caused Plaintiff to file these motions. The Court is not persuaded that  Defendant was unable to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery requests due to health  concerns when she was able to sit for a deposition. (Rao Decls., ¶ 8.) It also  simply does not make sense that Defendant would on the one hand be unable to  answer questions from Defendant’s attorney about Plaintiff’s discovery requests  but then be able to sit and answer questions from Plaintiff’s attorney in a  deposition.              The Court therefore awards monetary  sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the reduced amount of  $510.00 for each motion. This is comprised of 1.0 hour preparing each motion,  plus 0.5 hours appearing at the hearing on the motions, for a total of 1.5  hours, multiplied by the hourly rate of $300.00, plus $60.00 for each filing  fee.              CONCLUSION The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for an order deeming admitted  first set Requests for Admission propounded to Defendant Tai-Li Chiu as moot.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced  amount of $510.00 against Defendant Tai-Li Chu. Said monetary sanctions are to  be paid within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling  responses to first set Form Interrogatories as moot. The Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $510.00 against  Defendant Tai-Li Chu. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid within 20 days of  the Court’s order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.