 Case Number:  21STCV37242    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
2, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Hughy Addison v. City of Santa Monica Risk Management Liability
Claims Unit, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV37242
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
City of Santa Monica
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On October 8, 2021, Plaintiff, Hughy Addison, filed a form
complaint in pro per against Defendant, City of Santa Monica (erroneously sued
and served as “City of Santa Monica Risk Management Liability Claims Unit” and “City
of Santa Monica Bus Company”) for motor vehicle negligence.  The allegations are sparse and
handwritten.  From what the Court can
discern, Plaintiff suffered an injury while on Defendant’s bus.  Plaintiff seeks punitive damages.
 
            On July 24,
2023, Defendant filed a Declaration of Demurring Party in Support of Automatic
Extension.  
 
            On August 24,
2023, Defendant filed this Demurrer and Motion to Strike punitive damages from the
Complaint.  
 
The demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   Judicial
Council forms are not immune to demurrer.  (People ex rel. Dept. of Transportation v.
Superior Court (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1486.) 
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
C.  Meet and Confer
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.¿ (See Declaration of Robert A. Baggs.)
 
D.  Analysis
 
The elements of a “Motor Vehicle” cause of
action are the same as a cause of action for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages. 
 
Defendant argues the
demurrer should be sustained for two reasons. 
First, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not make clear whether he has complied
with the applicable claims statute.  Under Government Code section 911.2,
subdivision (a), a claim relating to a cause of action for injury to person or
to personal property shall be presented not later than six months after the
accrual of the cause of action.  Here,
Plaintiff selects Item 9 of the form Complaint to indicate he is required to
comply with a claims statute but fails to indicate whether he has complied, or
is excused from complying, with applicable claims statutes.  (Complaint, p. 2.)  
 
Second, common law
causes of action such as motor vehicle negligence cannot be asserted against a
public entity.  “Under the Government
Claims Act (Gov. Code, § 810 et seq.), there is no common law tort liability
for public entities in California; instead, such liability must be based on
statute.”  (Guzman v. County of
Monterey¿(2009) 46 Cal.4th 887, 897.) 
Here, the Complaint is devoid of allegations showing a statutory basis
for Plaintiff’s claim. 
 
In sum, the
Complaint is deficient.  The demurrer is
SUSTAINED.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer is sustained. 
Leave to amend is granted.
 
Plaintiff Hughy Addison is ordered to serve and file a First
Amended Complaint within 20 days of this order. 

 
Defendant City of Santa Monica is ordered to serve and file its
responsive pleading within 30 days of service of the First Amended Complaint.
 
The motion to strike is moot.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 2, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


