 Case Number:  21STCV21291    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
2, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  April 29, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Umar Saifullahkhan v. Nu To Mach
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV21291
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO SUBMIT TO A PHYSICAL
MEDICAL
EXAMINATION AT A LOCATION 
MORE
THAN 75 MILES FROM PLAINTIFF’S RESIDENCE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Nu Mach
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Umar
Saifullahkhan Babar
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
            On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff, Umar Saifullahkhan Babar, filed
a form complaint against Defendant, Nu Mach (erroneously sued as “Nu To Mach”),
for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision in Rosemead, California.  At
the time of the incident, Plaintiff was residing in Monrovia, California.
 
            On
June 15, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with a demand for physical
examination by Dr. Jeffrey Korchek. 
Plaintiff objected to the examination on the grounds that the
examination was more than 75 miles from Plaintiff’s residence.  Sometime after the incident and during the
pendency of this litigation, Plaintiff relocated to Sweden.  Thereafter, Defendant offered to pay for
Plaintiff’s reasonable travel expenses, hotel expenses, and meal expenses if
Plaintiff agreed to attend an examination with Dr. Korchek in Los Angeles
County.  Plaintiff refused.
 
            On
August 18, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to a physical examination
more than 75 miles from Plaintiff’s residence. 
Defendant does not seek sanctions.
 
            Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies.  
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
 
            In
any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive; and (2) the examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220, subd. (a).)  A defendant may make a demand for physical
examination without leave of the court after that defendant has been served or
has appeared (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (b)), and the physical
examination demanded shall be scheduled for a date at least 30 days after
service (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (d)).  
 
             If any party desires to
obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article
2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the
party shall obtain leave of court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)  The court shall grant a motion for a
physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good
cause shown.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,
subd. (a).)  If the place of the examination is more than 75
miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it
shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The court determines that there is good cause
for the travel involved. (2) The order is conditioned on
the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the
examinee for travel to the place of examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (e)(1)-(2).) 
 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            Plaintiff
does not object to submitting to a physical examination.  The sole issue to be decided is whether good
cause exists to compel Plaintiff to attend a physical examination with
Defendant’s medical expert more than 75 miles from Plaintiff’s current
residence of Sweden.
 
            If
the place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the
person to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both
of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The court determines that there
is good cause for the travel involved. (2) The order is conditioned on the
advancement by the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the
examinee for travel to the place of examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(e)(1)-(2).)   
 
            The
Court finds good cause exists to compel Plaintiff’s attendance for a physical
examination with Dr. Korchek in Los Angeles County.  In making this finding, the Court is guided
by the following undisputed facts: (1) Plaintiff filed this case in Los Angeles
County and received treatment in Los Angeles County for his alleged injuries;
(2) Plaintiff resided in Monrovia, California at the time of the incident and
is employed by SAG-AFTRA in Los Angeles, California (Plaintiff’s Responses to
Form Interrogatories No. 2.5, Ex. B); (3) Plaintiff’s counsel first notified
Defendant on July 5, 2023 that Plaintiff had moved; (4) Plaintiff testified
that he splits his time between California, Sweden, and Pakistan (Plaintiff’s
Depo., pp. 10:5-14:2, 20:6-24:17, Ex. I); and (5) Plaintiff also testified that
he was last in the United States three weeks before his July 27, 2023
deposition.  Over the last five years, he
has spent 30 to 40 percent of his time in California (Plaintiff’s Depo., pp.
10:25-11:14, Ex. I).  In sum, the
foregoing facts establish Plaintiff has frequent contact with California.  The burden upon Plaintiff to travel to
California for his physical examination (and the diligent prosecution of his
case in Los Angeles County) is slight, especially since Defendant has also
offered to pay Plaintiff’s reasonable travel expenses.  Further, Plaintiff failed to apprise
Defendant of his intention to move to Sweden and belatedly notified Defendant
of Plaintiff’s relocation.  This is some
evidence Plaintiff attempted to avoid Defendant’s choice of medical expert.  “The choice of the examining physician
generally belongs to the defendant....” 
(Pratt v. Union Pac. R.R. Co. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 165,
181.)  Whereas Plaintiff is familiar with
California, there is no indication that Defendant is likewise familiar with
Sweden and examining physicians in that country who can conduct Plaintiff’s
physical examination.  Indeed,
Plaintiff’s counsel mentioned Plaintiff had moved more than 75 miles from Los
Angeles County only after Defendant served her demand for Plaintiff’s physical
examination.  
 
            The
Order granting Defendant’s motion is strictly conditioned upon payment of Plaintiff’s
reasonable travel expenses.   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
motion is granted.  Plaintiff Umar
Saifullahkhan Babar is ordered to attend a physical examination with Dr.
Jeffrey Korchek on November 22, 2023, 10:30 a.m., at 2625 W. Alameda Ave.,
#116, Burbank, CA 91505.   
 
            Defendant
is to pay Plaintiff’s travel expenses, including food and lodging, incurred in
connection with attending the physical examination.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 2, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 