 Case Number:  21STCV14872    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 2, 2023                                            TRIAL DATE:  January
26, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Desiderio Sandoval, et al. v. Maria Guerrero
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV14872
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
MOTION
TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Desiderio Sandoval and Herlinda Sandoval
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Maria
Guerrero
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            Ono April 20, 2021, Plaintiffs, Desiderio Sandoval and
Herlinda Sandoval, initiated this action against Defendant, Maria Guerrero, for
injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision.
 
            On November
3, 2021, Plaintiffs propounded the first set of discovery on Defendant,
including, Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Request for Production of Documents, and Request for
Admissions.  On March 8, 2023, after Defendant
failed to provide responses, Plaintiffs filed these motions to compel
Defendant’s responses to the Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and
Requests for Production, and to deem the Requests for Admission admitted
against Defendant.  Plaintiffs seek
sanctions against Defendant and her counsel of record.
 
            On September 18, 2023, Defendant
filed oppositions, arguing that these motions are moot because Defendant served
Plaintiffs with verified responses to the foregoing discovery on September 15,
2023.  Defendant’s discovery responses
are attached to the oppositions. Defendant also requests that Plaintiffs’
sanctions request be reduced or denied.
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a consolidated reply
arguing the motions should be granted in their entirety because Defendant’s
responses were served late and do not substantially comply with the Code of
Civil Procedure.
 
The Court has reviewed Defendant’s responses and finds they
substantially comply with the Code of Civil Procedure.  Defendant’s responses are verified and did not
contain any objections to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests.  As such, the motions are moot.  If Plaintiffs take issue with Defendant’s
responses, a motion to compel further response is the more appropriate
vehicle. 
 
As it is undisputed Defendant served late responses to the
Plaintiffs’ discovery requests, the Court considers the issue of sanctions.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD FOR DISCOVERY SANCTIONS
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose
discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes
(without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)  
 
If sanctions are
sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice
specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the
type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and
authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount
of any monetary sanction. 
 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made
or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection
demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests
for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to the request necessitated the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Sanctions against
counsel:¿ The court in Kwan Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings
(2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings) noted that discovery sanctions
against an attorney are governed by a different standard than sanctions against
a party:¿¿¿ 
 
By
the terms of the statute, a trial court under section 2023.030(a) may not
impose monetary sanctions against a party's attorney unless the court finds
that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct resulting in
sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against
a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery process,
monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the ‘attorney
advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the attorney's
actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181
Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an attorney's
advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,” the attorney
has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an attorney offers
sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the burden shifts to
the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend that conduct. (Id.
at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d
501.)
 
III.        DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs request sanctions against Defendant and his
counsel.  As it is undisputed Defendant
served late responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests, the Court finds
sanctions are warranted.  Indeed, in the
context of motion to deem admitted requests for admission, sanctions are mandatory.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Pursuant to Hennings,
supra, imposition of monetary sanctions against counsel is also proper
unless counsel shows that he or she did not counsel the discovery abuse. 
(Hennings, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)   Here, defense counsel represents that he
substituted into this case on May 16, 2023 and had difficulty contacting
Defendant.  Thereafter, defense counsel
represents he went out on paternity leave from June 14, 2023 to August 14, 2023
after his wife gave birth prematurely to their son.  The Court finds defense counsel meets his
burden to show he did not counsel discovery abuse.  
            Accordingly,
sanctions are imposed against Defendant only in the amount of $1,050
representing 3 hours at Plaintiffs; counsel’s hourly rate.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motions are moot.  
 
The request for sanctions is granted.  Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions in the
amount of $1,050, to be paid to Plaintiffs, by and through their counsel.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 2, 2023                                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 