 Case Number:  21STCV36824    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
2, 2023                     TRIAL DATE: 
October 20, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Menfil Dela Cruz v. Kamo Khachaturov, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV36824
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendants
Kamo Khachaturov and Infinity Precision, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On September 6, 2023, Defendants, Kamo Khachaturov and
Infinity Precision, Inc., filed this motion to continue the trial date and to
set all related cutoff dates to the new trial date.  This is the second request for a trial
continuance.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
            As
discovery has closed, the Court construes this motion as a motion to continue
trial and to reopen discovery.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARDS
Continue Trial
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subdivision (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of
justice are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
            Reopen
Discovery 
            Except as
otherwise provided, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to
complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions
concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially
set for trial of the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).)¿ On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been
set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050, subd. (a).)
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
argues good cause exists to continue the trial date because despite diligent
efforts, essential discovery has yet to completed.  For example, Plaintiff’s independent medical
examination has not yet been conducted, nor has Plaintiff been able to depose
any personnel of Infinity Precision, Inc.  For this reason, Defendants
request a trial continuance and all pre-trial related dates to January 18,
2024, or any date thereafter as convenient for the Court.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds good cause exists to continue the trial date and
all related dates.  As this is the second
trial continuance request and no party has opposed this motion,[1]
the Court also finds no prejudice will result from granting this motion.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The Final Status Conference scheduled for October
6, 2023 is CONTINUED to January 5, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 27 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury
Trial scheduled for October 2, 2023 is CONTINUED to January 19, 2024 at 8:30 AM
in Department 27 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial
deadlines including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates are set to the
new trial date of January 19, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
 
Dated:   October 2, 2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


