 Case Number:  24PSCV02728    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  H Custom
Alloy Sales, Inc., et al. v. Thatcher Company of Nevada, Inc. (23PSCV02728)


ORDER
ON PRO HAC VICE APPLICATION
Plaintiffs Custom Alloy Sales, Inc.’s
and Endurance American Specialty Insurance Company’s Application of Kevin M.
Pugliese to Appear as Pro Hac Vice Counsel is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background 
Plaintiffs
Custom Alloy Sales, Inc. (“Custom Alloy”) and Endurance American Specialty
Insurance Company (“Endurance”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) brought this lawsuit
against Thatcher Company of Nevada, Inc. (“Thatcher”) after allegedly
sustaining damages due to a leak in a chlorine storage tank that was delivered
by Thatcher. 
Plaintiffs
have filed a motion under California Rules of Court Rule 9.40 for an order
allowing the pro hac vice admission of Kevin M. Pugliese. For the reasons
stated herein, the Court denies that application without prejudice.

Legal Standard 
“A person who is not a licensee of the State Bar of
California but who is an attorney in good standing of and eligible to practice
before the bar of any United States court or the highest court in any state,
territory, or insular possession of the United States, and who has been
retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of this state, may
in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written application to appear
as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an
active licensee of the State Bar of California is associated as attorney of
record. No person is eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule if the person is:

(1) A
resident of the State of California; 
(2) Regularly
employed in the State of California; or 
(3) Regularly
engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State
of California.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).) 
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
a superior court must file with the court a verified application together with
proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section
1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the
application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar
of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given
at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court
has prescribed a shorter period.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1).)
 
“The
application must state: 
(1) The
applicant’s residence and office address; 
(2) The
courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of
admission; 
(3) That the
applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4) That the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5) The title
of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and 
(6) The name,
address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of
California who is attorney of record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
“The State Bar of California may set an appropriate fee to be paid by
counsel pro hac vice.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(e)[FN1].)
 
Discussion 
Plaintiffs
move, pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 9.40, for an order allowing
the pro hac vice admission of Kevin M. Pugliese. 
The Court notes that the proof of service
accompanying the application is devoid of any reference of service made to the
State Bar at its San Francisco office, in compliance with California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(c)(1). Additionally, the Court does not see any reference to
any fee having been paid to the State Bar. 
The motion is denied without prejudice.  


