  Case Number:  23PSCV00154    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  H Schrieffer v. San Dimas Pet Clinic, et
al.,
Case No. 23PSCV00154
Defendants
San Dimas Pet Clinic and Kanwarbir S. Dhillon, DVM’s unopposed
Motion to Reclassify Unlimited Civil Case to Limited Civil Case is
DENIED. The Court is inclined to set an Order to Show Cause Re: Why Matter
Should not be Reclassified (Walker) on its own motion and will hear further from the parties in this regard
at the time of the hearing.
 
Background
Plaintiffs Paul K. Schrieffer and Norma N. Schrieffer (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: 
Plaintiffs own a German Shephard dog named King. On June 2,
2022, King underwent a procedure performed by Kanwarbir S. Dillon, DVM
(“Dillon”) at San Dimas Pet Clinic (“San Dimas PC”). Staples from the procedure
were left in King’s stomach.
On
June 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of
action against San Dimas PC and Dhillon (together, “Defendants”), as well as Does
1-50 for professional negligence, (trespass to chattels, negligent training and
supervision, and negligent hiring.
On
October 24, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to strike punitive
damages.
Pending
before the Court is Defendants’ motion to reclassify the action from an
unlimited civil case to a limited civil case for all purposes.
 
Legal Standard
“The
following civil cases and proceedings are limited civil cases:
(a)
A case at law if the demand, exclusive of interest, or the value of the
property in controversy amounts to thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) or
less. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 86, subd. (a)(1).)
“The
plaintiff, cross-complainant, or petitioner may file a motion for
reclassification within the time allowed for that party to amend the initial
pleading. The defendant or cross-defendant may file a motion for
reclassification within the time allowed for that party to respond to the
initial pleading. The court, on its own motion, may reclassify a case at any
time . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (a).)
“If
a party files a motion for reclassification after the time for that party to
amend that party’s initial pleading or to respond to a complaint,
cross-complaint, or other initial pleading, the court shall grant the motion
and enter an order for reclassification only if both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(1)
The case is incorrectly classified.
(2)
The moving party shows good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier. .
.”
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 403.040, subd. (b) [emphasis added].)
 
Discussion
Defendants
move the Court for an order, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
403.040, reclassifying this action from an unlimited civil case to a limited
civil case for all purposes.
The
Court denies the motion, on the basis that Defendants have failed to show good
cause for not seeking reclassification earlier. Defendants’ counsel represents
that this motion was not filed within the time allowed to respond to the
complaint “because [Defendants] had to conduct discovery in order to provide
evidence that Plaintiffs necessarily cannot recover damages in excess of
$25,000.00[FN1] in
this case.” (Mantovani Decl., ¶ 20.) Defendants concede, however, that the
Court heard their most recent motion to strike punitive damages nearly one
year ago, on October 24, 2023. (Id., ¶ 7.) Additionally, the
discovery responses attached as Exhibits A and B to the Mantovani’s declaration
reflect that they were served on May 12, 2023, nearly a year and a half ago. 
Still,
the Court is inclined to set an Order to Show Cause Re: Why Matter
Should not be Reclassified (Walker), on its own motion, for November 15,
2024, at 9:00 a.m. The Court will hear further from the parties at the time of
the hearing and will set any briefing schedule at that time. 


