 Case Number:  24PSCP00203    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  H Haier
Financial Factoring (Chongqing) Co. v. Jiang, Case No. 24PSCP00203


ORDER
ON MOTION TO QUASH
Specially
Appearing Defendant Chao Jiang’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and
Complaint is GRANTED. In light of this ruling, the hearing on the Petition for
Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign-County Money Judgment is TAKEN
OFF-CALENDAR.
I.        Background
Petitioner/Plaintiff Haier Financial
Factoring (Chongqing) Co. Ltd. (“Plaintiff”) seeks a judgment recognizing and
enforcing a foreign judgment entered on September 14, 2017 by the Intermediate
People’s Court of Qingdao Municipality, Shandong Province in China.On April 8, 2024, Petitioner/Plaintiff
filed a “Complaint for Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign-Country Money
Judgment Under Uniform Foreign Country Money Judgments Recognition Act [CCP §§
1713-1724]” (“Petition”) against Respondent/Defendant Chao Jiang (“Jiang”).
Pending before the Court is Jiang’s
motion to quash the service of summons and complaint.
II.      Legal Standard 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion. . . (1) To quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . .” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10.) 
“When a motion to quash is properly brought, the burden of proof is
placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance
of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
556, 568; see also Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-1313 [“Where a nonresident defendant challenges
jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of
personal jurisdiction”] and Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413 [“When a defendant challenges
the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process
the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by
proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective service”].)
III.     Discussion          
Jiang moves the Court for an order quashing service of the
summons and petition upon him.
Jiang
asserts that that the summons and Petition were not properly served upon him via
substituted service pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20,
subdivision (b), which provides that “[i]f a copy of the summons and complaint
cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be
served, . . .  a summons may be served by leaving a
copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place
of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address . . .  in the presence of a competent member of the
household . . . at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents
thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint
by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place
where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.”
On
June 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons and petition, which
reflected that substitute service of the summons and complaint for Jiang had
been effectuated on May 9, 2024 at 23624 Falcons View Dr., Diamond Bar, CA
91765-3335 (the “Falcons View Property”) upon an individual described as
follows: “Asian Male, 30-35, 150-160 lbs, Medium Length Black Hair, 5’8”-5’9”
by registered process server and thereafter mail-served that day.
Jiang attests that he does not live at the Falcons View
Property, that the Falcons View Property “is not his usual place of [abode] and
usual place of business” and that he does not use the Falcons View Property as
his usual mailing address. (Jiang Decl., ¶ 5.) Jiang attests that his ex-wife
resided at the Falcons View Property and notified him of this lawsuit. (Id.,
¶ 6.) Jiang further attests that he has “been residing in China since the year
of 2018 and doing business in China,” that “[t]he last time [he] went to the
United States was in September 2018” and that he “never went to the United
States since September 2018.” (Id., ¶¶ 2-4.)
Jiang also asserts that he does not have minimum contacts
with the state of California. “Under the minimum contacts test, an essential
criterion in all cases is whether the quality and nature of the defendant’s
activity is such it is reasonable and fair to require him to conduct his
defense in that State.” (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1305, 1313 [quotations and citations omitted].) “Depending upon the extent of a
nonresident defendant's contacts with the forum state, the defendant may
be subject either to general jurisdiction,
or to specific jurisdiction.” (Id. at 1314
[quotations and citations omitted].)
“If a nonresident defendant’s activities may be described as extensive or
wide-ranging [citation] or substantial ... continuous and systematic
[citation], there is a constitutionally sufficient relationship to warrant
jurisdiction for all causes of action asserted against him. In such
circumstances, it is not necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be
connected with the defendant's business relationship to the forum.” (Id.)
“If, however, the defendant’s activities in the forum are not so pervasive as
to justify the exercise of general jurisdiction over him, then jurisdiction
depends upon the quality and nature of his activity in the forum in relation to
the particular cause of action.” (Id.).
Plaintiff, in turn, argues that substitute service was
proper because a Background Report performed by Instant Checkmate on or about
April 24, 2023 (Lin Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. A) indicated that the Falcons View
Property was Jiang’s current address and because a January 8, 2018 Family Law
Case cover sheet filed with the Los Angeles Superior Court (Id., ¶ 6,
Exh. B) indicated that the Falcons View Property was Jiang’s address.
Plaintiff has not provided a declaration from anyone at
Instant Checkmate, however. Further, the Background Report, which was
apparently performed over a year prior to the date of substitute service,
expressly states under “Location Information,” that “[t]his section includes
all of the locations related to this person. Locations listed may include
current residence, past residences, and places of work.” Additionally, the
Family Law Case cover sheet filed January 8, 2018 predates the time when Jiang
attests he was last in the United States.
Plaintiff also contends, in support of his argument that
substitute service was proper, that Jiang and Meng Yu are not really divorced;
in doing so, it provides the Court with a copy of a dismissal without prejudice
filed October 23, 2020 in Case No. 18STFL00224. (Lin Decl., ¶ 10, Exh. F.) This
document, without more, does not adequately refute Jiang’s statement that “my ex-wife
lived at 23624 Falcons View Dr., Diamond Bar, CA 91765” (Jiang Decl., ¶ 6
[emphasis added]) (as the divorce could have occurred elsewhere), nor does
Plaintiff’s legally unsupported statement that “California courts do not
recognize foreign divorces unless a divorce petition has been filed and granted
by a California court” (Opp., 4:9-10).
Plaintiff also asserts that Jiang has sufficient minimum
contacts such as to establish general jurisdiction through ownership of
property in the state, through United States citizenship and through conducting
business through Golden State Import & Export Enterprises Inc. (“Golden
State”) (Lin Decl., ¶¶ 9 and 12, Exhs. E and H). Plaintiff, however, does not
provide the Court with any admissible evidence regarding Jiang’s ownership of
property in the state, with any legal authority supporting its position that a
United States passport is sufficient to establish minimum jurisdictional
contacts against a defendant in California, or with any dated records from the
California Secretary of State as to Golden State.
The evidence provided suggests to the Court that Jiang was
a resident of China at the time of the substitute service. While not raised by
either party, it appears to the Court that the Hague Convention applies[FN1]; in
such cases, “[f]ailure to comply with the Convention renders the service void,
even if the defendant has actual notice of the lawsuit.” (Floveyor
Internat., Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 794.)
The Court determines that Plaintiff has not met its burden of proof to
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.
The motion is granted. In light of the Court’s ruling on
the motion to quash, the petition for recognition and enforcement of a foreign
country money judgment is taken off calendar.


