 Case Number:  23STCV29592    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 10, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Richard Williams v. Philips North
America, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV29592            
 
MOTION
FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Richard Williams
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Philips
North America, LLC; Philips Medical Systems (Cleveland), Inc.; Philips Holding
USA Inc.; Philips RS North America LLC; and Respironics California, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
12/04/23: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on December 4,
2023. Plaintiff alleges that he was denied accommodations and wrongfully
terminated for taking medical leave for cancer treatment.
 
Plaintiff moves to specially set
this matter for trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36(d). 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial
Preference is GRANTED.
 
            Trial
in this matter is specially set for Monday, July 29, 2024, at 10:00 AM. 
 
            The
Court specially sets a Hearing on Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication for Friday, July 12, 2024 at 9:00 AM. All papers relating to any
motion for summary judgment or adjudication that is to be heard on this date
must be served and filed per code. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to specially set
this matter for trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36(d).
 
Subdivision (d) of section 36 of
the Code of Civil Procedure states that the Court, in its discretion, may grant
a motion for preference “that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(d).) If the motion is
granted, the Court “shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from
that date.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(f).)
 
Plaintiff states that he was
diagnosed with prostate cancer in August 2021, began treatment shortly
thereafter, and is suffering from Stage IV metastatic cancer. (Declaration of
Richard Williams ISO Mot. ¶ 2-3.) Plaintiff’s counsel engaged Dr. Albert
Dekker, a practicing oncologist and Adjunct Assistant Professor of Oncology at
the University of Southern California, to render an independent opinion on the
probability of Plaintiff’s survival beyond six months. (Declaration of Albert
Dekker ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-3, Exh. A.) In formulating his opinion, Dr. Dekker
reviewed Plaintiff’s treatment records from the period between October 2020 and
February 2024, and conferred with Plaintiff and his spouse on February 28,
2024. (Dekker Decl. ¶3; Exh. F.) Dr. Dekker states that Plaintiff’s cancer was
discovered in August 2021 and thereafter diagnosed as very advanced and
widespread metastatic prostate cancer of a form that is unusually aggressive
and not well-documented. (Dekker Decl. ¶¶ 5-6; Plaintiff’s Exh. B. p. 471.) Treatment
commenced immediately via hormone deprivation therapy with chemotherapy added
in September 2021 and continued with three breaks until the last record in Dr.
Dekker’s possession. (Dekker Decl. ¶ 7 Exh. B. p.471.) Dr. Dekker states that
these measures were consistent with the standard of care, but that the best
cancer control was achieved in March 2022, seven months later, after which the
disease began progressing. (Dekker Decl. ¶ 8.) Dr. Dekker opines that this is a
short interval by the standards of prostate cancer. (Id.) 
 
According to Dr. Dekker, Plaintiff
has experienced severe pain and complications from treatment throughout 2023.
(Dekker Decl. ¶¶ 9-11, Exh. B. pp. 26-27, 43, 106-110, 135.) Dr. Dekker
declares that, as of February 2024, Plaintiff’s cancer is out of control and
progressing extremely rapidly. (Dekker Decl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff stopped
chemotherapy in February 2024 and has been referred for palliative care and
novel radiation therapy. (Id; Plaintiff’s Exhs. E-F.) Dr. Dekker opines
that, based on the biology of Plaintiff’s cancer, his poor previous response to
hormonal therapy and chemotherapy, his symptoms, and the pace of his disease
progression, Plaintiff is unlikely to survive beyond six months to a reasonable
degree of medical certainty. (Dekker Decl. ¶ 15.) 
 
The Court is satisfied by the
showing produced by Plaintiff and his expert, Dr. Dekker, that Plaintiff
suffers from a medical condition that raises a substantial medical doubt of
survival beyond six months. Moreover, the Court finds that the interests of
justice will be served by granting preference to permit Plaintiff his day in
court because the illness from which Plaintiff suffers is also the express
basis for the claims asserted against Defendants. (Complaint ¶¶ 16-22.) The
Court therefore finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order specially setting
this matter for trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36(d). 
 
Defendants do not oppose trial
preference, but request that the Court set the matter for trial the maximum 120
days after the hearing and permit the Defendants to have their planned Motion
for Summary Judgment heard less than 30 days before trial. Plaintiff does not
object to either request so long as Plaintiff receives the full 75-day notice
period for any motion for summary judgment or adjudication. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(a)(2).) 
 
Although the Court’s calendar
precludes fully granting Defendants’ request to set trial 120 days from this
hearing, the Court will accommodate Defendants to the extent possible by
specially setting trial for Monday, July 29, 2024, at 10:00 AM. The Court will
also specially set a hearing on a Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication
on Friday, July 12, 2024, at 9:00 AM. This date will permit Defendants to have
their prospective motion heard less than 30 days before trial while also ensuring
all papers can be served with sufficient notice as required by section
437c(a)(2). 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is GRANTED.
 
            Trial
in this matter is specially set for Monday, July 29, 2024, at 10:00 AM. 
 
            The
Court specially sets a Hearing on Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication for Friday, July 12, 2024, at 9:00 AM. All papers relating to any
motion for summary judgment or adjudication that is to be heard this date must
be served and filed per code. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 10, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 