 Case Number:  22STCV38566    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SERVICE MANAGEMENT GROUP HOLDINGS, LLC,
                        
                       Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SMG MOUNTAIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC,
  
                        

                      Defendant. 
 

 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV38566
  Hearing Date:  March 1, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to quash subpoena 




SMG MOUNTAIN INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC,
                     
                      Cross-Complainant,
             
             v.
 
ANDREW FROMM, et al.,
                      Cross-Defendants.


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Service Management Group Holdings, LLC (SMG Holdings) filed
this action against Defendant and Cross-Complainant SMG Mountain Intermediate
Holdings, LLC (SMG Mountain), asserting a single cause of action for breach of
contract. 
            The complaint alleges that SMG
Holdings and an individual named Andrew Fromm (the Sellers) entered into an
Equity Purchase Agreement (EPA) with SMG Mountain (the Buyer). Under the EPA,
SMG Mountain agreed to purchase all outstanding membership interests in SMG
Holdings. As part of the transaction, the parties agreed to set aside $860,000
in an Indemnity Escrow Account. Under the EPA, the Sellers were required to
indemnify the Buyer for covered losses related to the transaction. If no
indemnifiable loss occurred by the one-year anniversary of the closing date,
the escrow amount was to be distributed to SMG Holdings. SMG Mountain has
refused to distribute the escrow amount to SMG Holdings despite allegedly never
making any valid claim for indemnity within the time limit. 
            On December 23, 2022, SMG Mountain
filed a cross-complaint against Fromm and SMG Holdings. The operative First
Amended Cross-Complaint was filed on August 25, 2023. The FACC asserts ten
causes of action in the following manner: (i) breach of contract as to
Customers 1 and 2; (ii) fraud by misrepresentation as to Customers 1 through 4;
and (iii) fraud by omission as to Customers 1 through 4.   
            The FACC alleges that Fromm lied and
concealed information from SMG Mountain to inflate the price of his company,
SMG Holdings. The FACC alleges that Fromm knew of at least four customers who
were dissatisfied with the services provided by SMG Holdings. The customers
ultimately did not renew their contracts with SMG Holdings. The loss of these
customers affected SMG Holdings’ future earnings, which in turn affected the
fair price of the transaction described above. Fromm allegedly made false
representations and concealed information about SMG Holdings’ relationships
with these four customers. Because of Fromm’s deception, SMG Holdings was
allegedly sold at an inflated price, approximately $60 million above fair
value. 
            On January 24, 2024, Fromm filed the
instant motion to quash a subpoena issued by SMG Mountain to U.S. Bank. SMG
Mountain filed its opposition on February 16, 2024. Fromm filed his reply on
February 23, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a
party] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a),
(b).) Good cause must be shown to compel a nonparty to produce documents. (See Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)   
DISCUSSION
I.
The Subpoena at Issue
The subpoena at issue seeks “[a]ny and all
DOCUMENTS pertaining to or reflecting any and all accounts of any kind, whether
presently open or closed, held in the name of or on behalf of a Trust, whether
held individually or held jointly with any other person(s) or entity(ies) for
the period from April 1, 2021 to and including the date of production.” (Sayers
Decl., Ex. A.) The Trusts are identified as the Laurie Bomba Irrevocable Trust
and Andrew Fromm Revocable Trust. (Ibid.) SMG Mountain issued the
subpoena to U.S. Bank after Fromm testified in deposition that he is a
beneficiary of the two trusts, which received funds from the sale of SMG
Holdings. (Rapore Decl., Ex. A, p. 31.) 
II.
Civil Code Section 3295
            Civil Code section 3295 precludes
discovery of a defendant’s financial information until the plaintiff
establishes entitlement to punitive damages. However, Section 3295 does not
preclude discovery where the information sought is fundamental to the case and
is not used solely for assessing punitive damages. (Rawnsley v. Superior
Court (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 86, 91.) 
            SMG Mountain argues that it seeks
the information for a reason beyond punitive damages. Specifically, SMG
Mountain seeks evidence that Fromm financially benefitted from the sale, which
it claims is related to Fromm’s motive and intent to commit fraud. (See Deloitte
LLP v. Flanagan (Del. Ch., Dec. 29, 2009) 2009 WL 5200657, at *8 [“Plaintiffs
can establish scienter with facts establishing a motive and an opportunity to
commit fraud”].) SMG Mountain also claims to need the information to
demonstrate “Fromm’s bias, interest, and other motive affecting credibility.” 
However, SMG Mountain fails to explain how
the precise distribution or location of the funds is probative to fraudulent
intent or Fromm’s credibility. The defendant’s personal benefit is not an
element of fraud. To the extent that Fromm’s financial benefit is probative of
fraudulent intent, Fromm already testified that Fromm Family Holdings received
approximately $82 million from the sale, and the two Trusts received over $40
million. (See Rapore Decl., Ex. A at pp. 230-31.) Delving into the precise
extent of Fromm’s profit or his financial condition serves no purpose other
than one that violates Section 3295.     
III.
Privacy
“The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Id. at p. 552.) Discovery of
private information is governed by the more stringent standard of direct
relevance in order to prevent a fishing expedition of “tangentially pertinent
sensitive information.” (Boler v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 201 Cal.App.3d 467,
472.) “The burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally protected
information to establish direct relevance.” (Davis v. Superior Court
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) 
“[A] bank customer has a constitutionally
protected right to privacy in financial information provided to a financial
institution for banking purposes . . . .” (Garrabrants v. Erhart (2023)
98 Cal.App.5th 486, 500.) Here, SMG Mountain’s need for the information does
not outweigh Fromm’s privacy interests. Fromm’s financial condition is not
probative to fraud such that it warrants the intrusion into private financial
information.   
IV.
Relevance
As discussed above, SMG Mountain has not
established that the records are relevant for the fraud claim. Additionally, the
subpoena is overbroad on its face because it seeks all documents on all
accounts held by the Trusts. (Sayers Decl., Ex. A.) This necessarily
includes information irrelevant to assessing Fromm’s financial benefit from the
sale, even if the records could be properly sought for that purpose (which they
cannot).  
V.
Meet and Confer and Separate Statement
            SMG Mountain argues that the motion
should be denied because Fromm failed to meet and confer prior to filing it,
and Fromm failed to include a separate statement. However, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1 does not impose a meet and confer requirement for a
motion to quash. The lack of a separate statement does not affect the merits of
the motion. The parties’ positions are clear from their respective briefs.   
CONCLUSION
            Andrew Fromm’s motion to quash is
GRANTED. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial
justification. 