 Case Number:  BC239003    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
RUTH PRAGER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
VINCENT J. FERRO, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  BC239003
  Hearing Date:  March 1, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to add judgment
  debtor 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff initiated this action
against Defendant Vincent J. Ferro in October 2000. On January 29, 2015, the
Court entered judgment for Plaintiff in the amount of $14,381.65. To date, Defendant
has only paid $2,000. With interest, the total remaining balance to date is
$22,699.91. 
            Defendant is the sole member and CEO
of Strategic Merchant Partners LLC (Strategic). Plaintiff presently moves to
add Strategic as a judgment debtor on the grounds that it is Defendant’s alter
ego. Plaintiff argues that Defendant is using Strategic to hide assets from
collection. There is no opposition to the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution
or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial
officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in
the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not
specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or
mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 187.) 
“Pursuant to section 187, a trial court
has jurisdiction to modify a judgment to add additional judgment debtors.” (McClellan
v. Northridge Park Townhome Owners Ass'n (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 752.) “Judgments
are often amended to add additional judgment debtors on the grounds that a
person or entity is the alter ego of the original judgment debtor.” (NEC
Electronics Inc. v. Hurt (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 772, 778.) “This is an
equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending the
judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the
real defendant.” (Ibid.) “Such a procedure is an appropriate and
complete method by which to bind new . . . defendants where it can be
demonstrated that in their capacity as alter ego of the [judgment debtor] they
in fact had control of the previous litigation, and thus were virtually
represented in the lawsuit.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Proof of Service
            Initially, the Court notes that
service of the motion is inadequate. The proof of service indicates service by
mail directly to Defendant and Strategic. Given the age of the case and Strategic’s
apparent suspended status, there is no indication that the listed address is
the current address for either Defendant or Strategic. It does not appear that
Defendant or Strategic received adequate notice of the motion. 
II.
Merits
“[C]ourts may ignore the corporate entity
under the alter ego doctrine ‘when the corporate form is used to perpetrate a
fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable
purpose.’” (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 172, 199.) “Whether
the theory relied on by the moving party and the trial court is alter ego,
piercing the corporate veil, or some other challenge to the fiction of the
corporate entity, the doctrine ‘limits the exercise of the corporate privilege
to prevent its abuse.’” (McClellan, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at p. 753.) The
judgment creditor’s “inability to collect, when combined with the other factors
indicating inequitable uses of the corporate form, may satisfy the unjust
result element for alter ego liability.” (JPV, supra, 88 Cal.App.5th at
p. 200.)
In Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 221, the court acknowledged that piercing the
corporate veil could be used to “satisfy the debt of an individual through the
assets of an entity of which the individual is an insider.” However, this
requires a fact-driven analysis, and “the trial court should, at minimum,
evaluate the same factors as are employed in a traditional veil piercing case,
as well as whether [the creditor] has any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy at
law.” (Id. at p. 224.) 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant is the
sole member and CEO of Strategic. (See Lubetzky Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff also argues
that Defendant has used the LLC bank account to pay personal expenses and
deposit personal funds. (Id., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Plaintiff has attempted without
success to collect from Defendant directly. (Id., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel
believes this is because Defendant has been secreting his assets through
Strategic. (Ibid.) Therefore, Plaintiff argues that treating Strategic
as a separate entity would work an injustice.  
However, Plaintiff has not established
that she lacks an adequate remedy at law. (See Curci, supra, 14
Cal.App.5th at p. 224.) Additionally, Plaintiff has not presented sufficient
evidence to show that Strategic had an opportunity to litigate the underlying
action or controlled the defense of the action such that its interests were “virtually
represented” in the underlying action. (See NEC, supra, 208 Cal.App.3d
at p. 781.) Plaintiff’s evidence indicates that Strategic was formed in 2011,
long after this action was initiated. (See Lubeztsky Decl., Ex. A.) 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to add judgment
debtor is DENIED.