  Case Number:  23STCV12878    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S. Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
4, 2023                                              
 
CASE NAME:            David
Posner v. Hector Salgado, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV12878

 
DEFENDANTS
MORTGAGE VINTAGE, INC.’S AND ALEXANDER MACDOUGALL A/K/A SANDY MACDOUGALL’S
(ERRONEOUSLY NAMED SANDY MCDOUGALL) DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT WITHOUT MOTION TO
STRIKE 

 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendants Mortgage Vintage, Inc. and
Alexander MacDougall a/k/a Sandy MacDougall (erroneously named Sandy McDougall)
 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiff David Posner
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.     
Moving Defendants demurrer to the entire Complaint as
to Defendant Alexander MacDougall a/k/a Sandy MacDougall (erroneously sued as
Sandy McDougall) as a matter of law. 
2.     
Moving Defendants also demurrer to the Second Cause of
Action, Fourth Cause of Action, Fifth Cause of Action, and Sixth Cause of Action
for failing to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant
to Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e). 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
1.     
Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to
Defendant Alexander MacDougall a/k/a Sandy MacDougall (erroneously sued as
Sandy McDougall)
2.     
Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the Second
Cause of Action, Fourth Cause of Action, Fifth Cause of Action, and Sixth Cause
of Action.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL
FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
 
Plaintiff David Posner ("Plaintiff")
filed suit against Defendants Hector Salgado, Juan Manuel Gonzalez, Diana
Lopez, Four Seasons International Group LLC, Upper Case Construction, Mortgage
Vintage Inc., Sandy McDougall, and Does 1 through 20, inclusive. 
The Moving Defendants are Mortgage Vintage,
Inc. and Alexander MacDougall a/k/a Sandy MacDougall (erroneously sued as Sandy
McDougall) (Moving Defendants). The remaining defendants have not yet appeared.

 
 
Plaintiff filed a Complaint on June 7, 2023, alleging six
(6) causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) unjust enrichment, (3) breach
of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of unfair business practices act § 17200, (5)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (6) fraud and
misrepresentation. The causes of action at issue for Moving Defendants’
demurrer are 2, 4, 5, and 6. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that he executed a Deed of Trust with
Defendant Hector Salgado on September 20, 2021 for real property located at
42653 Sierra Hwy, Lancaster, CA 93535. This Deed of Trust was purportedly to
keep this property from foreclosure sale by Defendant Four Seasons
International Group LLC. Plaintiff contends he relied on the Deed of Trust as
his security interest in the property and then paid off the arrears to prevent
foreclosure. After Plaintiff’s Deed of Trust, Defendant Hector Salgado allegedly
transferred the property back to Four Seasons International Group LLC who
subsequently defaulted on the property again. The property was sold at an April
23, 2023 foreclosure sale that Plaintiff claims he was unaware. The only allegations
noting moving Defendants is paragraph 24 which alleges moving Defendants executed
a trust deed  with defendant Four Seasons
on July 29.l 2019.
Moving Defendants filed their Demurrer on July 11, 2023 for
hearing on October 4, 2023. It was timely filed and served pursuant to Code of
Civ. Proc. § 1005.  Plaintiff did not
file an Opposition. Moving Defendants did not file a Reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD:
 
Demurrer 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan(1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved
in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Ibid.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of
all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank
v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or
improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the
purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at p. 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§
430.10(e), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 31 Cal. 4th at p. 745.)
 
Meet and Confer 
 
CCP § 430.41(a) requires that the demurring party
meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due, by
telephone or in person, for the purpose of determining if the parties can
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41.) The demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing their
meet and confer efforts. Failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule
or sustain a demurrer, or grant or deny a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).)
 
 
The submitted declaration facially complies
with the meet and confer requirements and the Judicial Council did not include
additional space requiring declarant to indicate the details of meet and confer
discussions. Therefore, Moving Defendants met the meet and confer requirement.[1]
 
Service
 
The court has reviewed the proof of service
attached to the demurrer and it appears service was properly performed by U.S.
Mail.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Moving Defendants’ request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits 1 through 9. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (h); See Kalnoki
v. First American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
23,37.) However, the court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing
documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records
and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth
of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta
(2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.) 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that the
first and third causes of action do not apply to Moving Defendants.
 
Entire Complaint by Defendant Alexander
MacDougall a/k/a Sandy MacDougall (erroneously named Sandy McDougall)
 
 
Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff did not
allege any facts that Defendant Alexander MacDougall, in his individual
capacity, participated in conduct outside of his corporate duties or that any
of his actions were unlawful.
 
Corporate directors cannot be held vicariously
liable for the corporation’s torts in which they do not participate. (Asahi
Kasei Pharma Corp. v. Actelion Ltd. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 945, 966; United
States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595.) However,
a corporate director’s participation in tortious conduct may be shown by direct
action, knowing consent to or approval of unlawful acts, and even when they
failed to stop tortious conduct they knew about. (Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp.
v. Actelion Ltd., supra, 222 Cal.App.4th at p. 966.)
 
Here, a review of the Complaint indicates that Plaintiff
did not sufficiently allege facts that Defendant Alexander MacDougall, in his
individual capacity, acted unlawfully, knew or consented to unlawful acts, or
failed to stop tortious conduct he knew about. The only allegations in the
Complaint addressing Defendant Alexander MacDougall state that he is President
of Defendant Mortgage Vintage, Inc. and that Mortgage Vintage, Inc. foreclosed
on the subject property on April 25, 2023. (Compl. ¶¶ 8,24.) While Plaintiff claims
that he “should’ve been notified” about the April 25, 2023 sale, he also states
that his September 20, 2021 Deed of Trust was not recorded until “almost 3
years after being executed.” (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 17, 24.) Even reading these facts as
true, they do not describe how Defendant Alexander MacDougall as an individual
acted unlawfully.
 
Accordingly, the court sustains the demurrer as
to Defendant Alexander MacDougall a/k/a/ Sandy MacDougall (erroneously sued as
Sandy McDougall) in its entirety. 
 
Second Cause of Action (Unjust
Enrichment) 
 
Moving Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has not alleged facts that Moving Defendants received a benefit from
Plaintiff or subsequently retained a benefit at Plaintiff’s expense.
Specifically, Moving Defendants contend that they did not receive a benefit from
Plaintiff due to the April 25, 2023 foreclosure action. Additionally, Moving
Defendants claim that they were not required to give Plaintiff notice of the
foreclosure action pursuant to Civil Code § 2924b.
 
Unjust enrichment is a
restitution claim, not a cause of action. (De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 870; McBride v. Coughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 387-88.) A valid restitution claim for unjust enrichment
requires the following elements: “’‘receipt of a
benefit and unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’ [Citation.] ‘The theory of unjust
enrichment requires one who acquires a benefit which may not justly be
retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party
so as not to be unjustly enriched.’ [Citation.]” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769.)  
 
Here, a review of the
Complaint indicates that Plaintiff did not sufficiently plead unjust
receipt of a benefit from Moving Defendants. Plaintiff claims that he should be
reimbursed by Moving Defendants because he was “deprived of his finances”
because “the subject property was sold at a Trustee Sale without his
knowledge.” (Compl. ¶ 44.) Plaintiff alleges he was the beneficiary of a
deed of trust from Defendant Salgado on September 20, 2021,  (Complaint ¶1, Exhibit B.) However, nowhere
does Plaintiff allege that this Deed of Trust was recorded
prior to any foreclosure sale. As such, Plaintiff has not alleged that
Moving Defendants acted unlawfully by failing to provide him notice Without
these facts, Plaintiff has not alleged that Moving Defendants unlawfully
received a benefit from him.
 
Accordingly, the court sustains Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action ..
 
Fourth Cause of Action (Breach of Unfair
Business Practices Act § 17200) 
 
Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not
alleged facts demonstrating unlawful, fraudulent, or unfair business conduct by
Moving Defendants. 
 
California Business and Professions Code
section 17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.) A business practice is unfair when it offends an
established public policy or when the practice is immoral, unethical,
oppressive, unscrupulous, or substantially injurious to consumers." (Community
Assisting Recovery, Inc. v. Aegis Security Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th
886, 894.) A business practice is unlawful if it violates another law. (Berryman
v. Merit Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.) A
business practice is fraudulent if “members of the public are likely to be
deceived." (See Wang v. Massey Chevrolet (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th
856, 871.) “A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices . . . must state
with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of
the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
Here, a review of the Complaint indicates that Plaintiff
did not sufficiently plead facts that Moving Defendants violated Business &
Professions Code section 17200. Notably, Plaintiff does not identify what the
unlawful practices were, but alleges in a conclusory fashion  that “Defendants’ scheme to defraud, breach of
contract, which have resulted in unjust enrichment . . . and a loss of
Plaintiff’s funds.” (Compl. ¶ 55.) 
 
Accordingly, the court sustains Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action (Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress) 
 
Moving Defendants argue that foreclosing on a
senior deed of trust which wipes out junior lied is not unlawful or extreme and
outrageous conduct.Additionally, Moving Defendants allege that Plaintiff cannot
recover damages because his damages arise solely from economic injury.[2] 
 
The elements of an intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED) cause of action are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering; and
(4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress.  (See Moncada v. West Coast
Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780.)  To satisfy the element of extreme and
outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’”  (Ibid.) (internal citations omitted.)    
 
While there is no bright-line as to what
constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case analysis,
courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at the
demurrer stage. (Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494.)  Recovery
for emotional distress caused by injury to property is permitted in IIED
claims. (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182,
203-04.) (internal citations omitted.)
 
Here, a review of the Complaint indicates that Plaintiff
did not sufficiently allege facts showing "extreme and outrageous"
conduct by Moving Defendants. Plaintiff alleges that failing to notify him of
the foreclosure action was extreme and outrageous. (Compl. ¶ 24.) But,
foreclosure alone does not necessarily lead to extreme and outrageous conduct.
(Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.4th 999, 1009 (no allegations that
lenders threatened, insulted, abused, or humiliated borrower in conducting
foreclosure proceedings.) In addition to failing to allege facts that
Defendants owed him a duty to inform him of the sale, Plaintiff has not alleged
that Moving Defendants intended to cause his distress. 
 
The court does not need to reach Moving
Defendants’ damages argument because Plaintiff did not sufficiently plead IIED.
 
The court thus sustains the demurrer as to the fifth
cause of action. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud and
Misrepresentation) 
 
Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff did not
allege any specific fraudulent acts by Moving Defendants, that they did not
communicate or have contact with Plaintiff, and that they did not know
Plaintiff existed because he did not record his junior lien.
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) “The particularity demands that a
plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469; Perlas v. GMAC Mort., LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th
429, 434 [requiring plaintiffs who claim fraud against a corporation to allege
the names of the persons who made the misrepresentations, their authority to
speak for the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when it was said or written.]) Fraud allegations need not be liberally
construed, general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient,
and every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged fully,
factually and specifically. (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell
(1986) 186 Cal. App. 3d 1324, 1331.)
 
Here, a review of the Complaint indicates that
Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege, with particularity, facts supporting
the knowledge of falsity element or the intent to defraud elements of an
intentional misrepresentation claim. Plaintiff alleges fraud in a conclusory
fashion only and does not satisfy heightened particularity requirements. (Compl.
¶¶ 63-69.) In particular, the Complaint refers to “the Representations” but
does not state what those representations were, who said them, when they were
said, or how they were said. (Compl. ¶ 63.)
 
The court thus sustains the demurrer as to the sixth
cause of action..
 
Leave to amend: 
 
Leave to amend should be liberally
granted if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the
defect.  (County of Santa Clara v.
Superior Court (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.) The Plaintiff has the burden of
demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can
be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his
complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) Here, Plaintiiff has not offered
any explanation on he could cure the defects. Indeed, Plaintiff has not even
filed an opposition seemingly conceded moving Defendants’ assertions that he
did not record his junior deed. If that is the case, he would be unable to cure
any of the noted defects in a subsequent pleading. The Court will give
Plaintiff an opportunity to be heard at the hearin on this issue. Absent a
showing of a reasonable possibility of being able to amend the pleadings to cure
the noted defects, the Demurrer will be sustained without leave to amend as to
the moving defendants. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
For the foregoing reasons, the court decides
the pending motion as follows:
 
1.     
Demurrer to the entire Complaint as to Defendant
Alexander MacDougall a/k/a Sandy MacDougall (erroneously sued as Sandy
McDougall) is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
2.     
Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action, Fourth Cause of
Action, Fifth Cause of Action, and Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
Pursuant to CCP § 581d, this written order of dismissal
constitutes a judgment and shall be effective for all purposes. The Clerk shall
note this judgment in the register of actions in this case. 
 
Moving Defendants are to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
 
DATE: October 3, 2023                          
_______________________________
                                                                       
Upinder S. Kalra
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court


