 Case Number:  23STCV13092    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



THE RACQUET
  CENTRE, A CALIFORNIA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP D/B/A STUDIO PLAZA, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
  CAPITAL INSURANCE COMPANY.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV13092
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 30, 2024



 
Plaintiffs The Racquet
Centre, A California Limited Partnership dba Studio Plaza’s and VDA Property
Company’s unopposed application for an order admitting Katherine Hendler
Fayne to appear pro hac vice is granted.

 
          Plaintiffs The Racquet Centre, A California Limited
Partnership dba Studio Plaza (“Studio Plaza”) and VDA Property Company (“VDA”) (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) apply unopposed to admit Katherine Hendler Fayne (“Fayne”)
to appear pro hac vice on their behalf. 
(Notice Pro Hac Vice, pgs. 1-2.) 
 
          Background
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant application for Fayne to be admitted pro hac vice.  As of the date of this hearing no opposition
has been filed.
 
Motion
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following:
(1)   The applicant’s residence and
office address;
(2)   The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)   That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)   That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)   The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro
hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)   The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides
as follows, “[a]n applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice
under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.”
Plaintiffs’ application on
behalf of Fayne provides the information required by C.R.C., Rule 9.40(d).  Plaintiffs submitted proof that the $50.00
fee was paid to the State Bar of California. 
(C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); Decl. of Scheidemantle, Exh. A.)  Plaintiffs did not submit proof of
service of the instant application on the State Bar of California; however, David
R. Scheidemantle declares that he served a copy of his declaration and the
application for admission on the State Bar’s San Francisco offices.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1); Decl. of Scheidemantle
¶7.)
Plaintiffs have provided this
Court with Fayne’s bar number in Texas (Bar No. 24036752) and New York (Bar No.
4065256). While this requirement is not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule 9.40, the
Court needs this number to enter Fayne’s application into the Court’s system.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ unopposed
motion for an order admitting Fayne to appear pro hac vice is granted.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  