 Case Number:  23STCV06297    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of
Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HALIBURTON INTERNATIONAL FOODS, INC., 
  
 
  
         vs.
 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TAX AND FEE
  ADMINISTRATION. 


 Case No.:  23STCV06297
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 30, 2024



 
Plaintiff Haliburton
International Foods, Inc.’s, unopposed motion to seal portions of the
deposition transcript submitted by Defendant California Department of Tax and
Fee Administration as Exhibit 3 to its Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits in Support
of Motion for Summary Judgment and references to those transcript sections in
Defendant’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion for
Summary Judgment and Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in
Support of Motion for Summary Judgment is continued to August 30, 2024, at 8:30
a.m. Plaintiff is to file proposed redactions of the MSJ documents with this
Court by August 16, 2024.
          
Plaintiff Haliburton
International Foods, Inc. (“Haliburton”)
(“Plaintiff”) moves unopposed for an order sealing portions of the
deposition transcript submitted by Defendant California Department of Tax and
Fee Administration (“DTFA”) (“Defendant”) as Exhibit 3 to its Notice of
Lodgment of Exhibits in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment (“MSJ”), as well
as references to the information contained in those transcript sections in
Defendant’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of MSJ and
Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of MSJ.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; CRC, Rules 2.550(d)(1)-(5).)  Plaintiffs move on the grounds that (1) there
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) a
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Background
Plaintiff alleges a single cause of action against Defendant for
illegal collection of Use Tax.  Plaintiff’s
cause of action arises from its purchase and use of liquid nitrogen from
January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005 (“Period at Issue”), the California
State Board of Equalization’s (“CDTFA”) audit of Plaintiff for the Period at
Issue regarding its use tax obligations, and subsequent tax on Plaintiff in the
amount of $38,722.18.  (See
Complaint ¶47-49.)
On May 31, 2024, Defendant filed its MSJ.
On June 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion.  As of the date of this hearing no opposition
has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
CRC Rule 2.551(a) provides, as follows:
“A record must not be filed under seal without a court order. The court must
not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or
stipulation of the parties.”
CRC Rule 2.551(b)(1) provides, as
follows: “A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a
motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or
application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing
facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”
CRC Rule 2.550(d) provides, as follows:
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly
finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest
supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”  
CRC Rule 2.550(e) provides: “An order
sealing the record must: 
(A) Specifically state the facts that
support the findings; and (B) Direct the sealing of only those documents and
pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents and pages,
that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All other
portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.”
The protection of trade secrets may
constitute an “overriding interest” that warrants restricting public
access.  (In re Providian Credit Card
Cases (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 292, 299 [stating trade secrets are subject to
sealing, provided the moving party treats them as confidential].)  A trade secret is “information, including a
formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process
that: (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not
being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic
value from its disclosure or use; and (2) is the subject of efforts that are
reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.”  (Id., quoting Civ. Code §3426.1(d).)
California courts ordinarily grant requests
to seal information “involv[ing] confidential matters relating to . . .
business operations,” particularly where “public revelation of these matters
would interfere with its ability to effectively compete in the marketplace.”  (Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1286; see also Huffy Corp. v.
Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 97, 108 [“[D]ocuments which are not
trade secrets may nonetheless be subject to sealing in the face of a proper . .
. showing of prejudice to an overriding interest.”], citation omitted.)
 
Motion to Seal
Plaintiff moves to seal the deposition
of Ian Schenkel, who has served as Plaintiff’s CEO and president and was
designated as the Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) regarding certain deposition
topics specified by Defendant.  Specifically,
the information sought for sealing is testimony relating to proprietary
techniques involved in the preparation of Plaintiff’s food products, such as
techniques relating to the roasting of vegetables.  (Decl. of Schenkel ¶6.)  
Plaintiff argues these materials should
be sealed because they constitute Plaintiff’s proprietary business information
and trade secrets, and public disclosure of this information would cause
significant harm to Plaintiff’s interests that outweighs the public’s right to
access.  (Motion, pg. 5.)  
Plaintiff preserves the confidential
and proprietary nature of this information through its policies and practices
against inadvertent disclosure.  (See Decl.
of Schenkel ¶3.)  Plaintiff’s policies prohibit
employees and vendors from accessing information “beyond that which is
reasonably necessary to perform their duties” and limits disclosure and use to
what is “reasonably necessary” for employees and vendors “to execute their
duties.”  (Decl. of Schenkel ¶3.)  Plaintiff enforces its policies through various
protocols, such as “limiting access to certain internal systems to authorized Haliburton
employees and vendors on a ‘need-to-know’ basis.”  (Decl. of Schenkel ¶4.)  For non-company individuals with a business
purpose for being at Plaintiff’s facility and that are likely to come in contact
with areas of Plaintiff’s facility where proprietary processes and equipment
are visible, Plaintiff requires that individual to sign a Non-Disclosure
Agreement before allowing that individual to enter the facility.  (Decl. of Schenkel ¶5.)  This includes requiring Defendant’s experts to
review the Protective Order and sign a Certification that they understood that
they were bound by the Protective Order. (Decl. of Rawles ¶2.)  
Information relating to Plaintiff’s
proprietary techniques warrants protection from disclosure, as they are
competitively sensitive and constitute Plaintiff’s trade secrets.  (See McGuan v. Endovascular Techs., Inc. (2010)
182 Cal. App. 4th 974, 988-989 [affirming order to seal documents that would
reveal the defendants’ confidential business methods and processes].)  Plaintiff has invested “substantial resources
and internal analysis” in ensuring that its techniques for preparing its food
products are “cutting-edge” and “distinct” from those used by its competitors
and give Plaintiff a competitive advantage.  (Decl. of Schenkel ¶6.)  Public disclosure of that information would
provide Plaintiff’s competitors with access to confidential materials that
would reveal Plaintiff’s proprietary food science and business strategies.  (Decl. of Schenkel ¶7.)  If that information were publicly known, then competitors
could use Plaintiff’s trade secret and proprietary information, insights, and
internal business analysis to damage or destroy Plaintiff’s protected,
competitive edge in the food production industry.  (Decl. of Schenkel ¶7.)
Plaintiff sufficiently demonstrated
that the information contained in the portions of the MSJ amounts to
confidential information such that there exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of the public access to the records, the overriding
interest supports sealing the record, a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed.  
However, Plaintiff failed
to submit proposed redactions for the Court to review and for the Court to
effectuate sealing the documents.  Plaintiff is advised
that, from practical standpoint, the Court can only seal documents, and not
lines or pages
within a document.  Without the proposed redactions, this Court has no way of
assessing whether the sealing is narrowly tailored and that no less restrictive
means exist to achieve the overriding interest.
Accordingly, the Court continues
Plaintiff’s motion to August 30, 2024, at 8:30 a.m, and directs Plaintiff to
file proposed redactions with this Court by August 16, 2024.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion to seal is continued
to August 30, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff is to file proposed redactions of
the MSJ documents with this Court by August 16, 2024.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  