 Case Number:  23STCV27589    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAVID OWEN,
  et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
ASHLAND, INC.,
  et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV27589
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 30, 2024



 
Moving Defendant Shell U.S.A,
Inc.’s unopposed application for an order admitting Robert J. Flora to
appear pro hac vice is granted.

 
          Defendant Shell U.S.A., Inc. (“Shell”) (“Moving Defendant”)
applies unopposed to admit Robert J. Flora (“Flora”) to appear pro hac
vice on its behalf.  (Notice Pro Hac
Vice, pg. 2; CRC, Rule 9.40.) 
 
          Background
On June 27, 2024, Moving
Defendant filed the instant application for Flora to be admitted pro hac
vice.  As of the date of this hearing no
opposition has been filed.
 
Motion
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following:
(1)   The applicant’s residence and
office address;
(2)   The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)   That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)   That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)   The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro
hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)   The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides
as follows, “[a]n applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice
under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.”
Moving Defendant’s
application on behalf of Flora provides the information required by C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d).  Moving Defendant submitted
proof that the $50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); Decl. of Flora ¶9,
Exh. A.)  Moving Defendant
submitted proof of service on the State Bar of California via its online portal.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1); Decl. of Flora ¶9,
Exh. A.)
Moving Defendant has provided
this Court with Flora’s bar number in Texas (Bar No. 07157550). While this
requirement is not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule 9.40, the Court needs this number
to enter Flora’s application into the Court’s system.
Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ unopposed motion for an order admitting Fain to appear pro
hac vice is granted.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  