 Case Number:  24TRCV00596    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 26, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00596
 
CASE NAME:                        Jessica Gandara v.
Thekey of California, LLC, et al.   
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Jessica Gandara 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Liberalis, LLC
 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set.
 
MOTION:¿                              Motion to Compel
Arbitration  
 
Tentative Rulings:                  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to stay the lawsuit
pending the outcome of the arbitration is GRANTED.   The Court will set an arbitration status conference
in early 2025.  
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff
Jessica Gandara filed a complaint against Defendants Thekey of California, LLC,
Thekey of Calabasas, LLC, Thekey Holdings, LLC, Home Care Assistance, Inc.,
Thekey, LLC, 123 Home Care Unlimited, LLC, and Liberalis, LLC, alleging (1)
Failure to Provide Meal Periods; (2) Failure to Provide Paid Rest Breaks; (3)
Unpaid Minimum Wages, Overtime, and Liquidated Damages; (4) Failure to
Reimburse Business Expenses; (5) Willful Failure to Provide Compliant Wage
Statements; (6) Failure to Provide Employee Wage Records Upon Written Request;
(7) Failure to Keep Accurate Payroll Records; (9) Wages Not Timely Paid; and
(10) Unfair Competition.
 
            Plaintiff now files a Motion to
Compel Arbitration. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On May 7, 2024, the Court entered its
order granting a stipulation between Plaintiff and the The Key defendants to this
submit case to binding arbitration and stay the civil action, as to all but one
Defendant, Liberalis LLC.  Apparently,
Plaintiff desired to pursue separate tracks, one track as to the The Key defendants
and another track as to Liberalis.  At
the CMC on August 22, 2024, the The Key defendants advised the Court they had
reached a settlement with Plaintiff and counsel discussed with the Court how
the balance of the case would proceed.  Plaintiff’s
counsel indicated that they intended to file a motion to compel arbitration, which
they did a few weeks later.
 
On
September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On September
13, 2024, Defendant Liberalis, LLC filed an opposition. To date, no reply has
been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th
223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff argues that both parties are mutually bound by a valid
arbitration agreement, which includes an arbitration clause that clearly states
any claims, including those related to wage or compensation, must be resolved
through binding arbitration. (Watson Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) This agreement is
undisputed. Plaintiff further asserts that the FAA governs the arbitration
agreement since it is explicitly stated in the contract that the FAA applies.
Plaintiff argues the arbitration clause is valid and enforceable, and the
Defendant is obligated to arbitrate under the terms of the agreement. The scope
of the arbitration agreement specifically includes wage and compensation
claims, which are the basis of the Plaintiff’s lawsuit. Therefore, Plaintiff
contends that the Defendant entered into a valid, enforceable agreement to
arbitrate these claims. Additionally, Plaintiff requests that the court stay
the legal proceedings while the arbitration is pending, as required by both the
FAA and California law, which mandate a stay of proceedings in cases involving
arbitration agreements.
In opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims should
remain in state court and that Plaintiff has waived the right to compel
arbitration. First, Defendant cites to the U.S. Supreme Court decision Morgan
v. Sundance, Inc. (2022) 596 U.S. 411, 418, to assert that the federal
policy favoring arbitration does not allow courts to create
arbitration-specific procedural rules. The court must treat arbitration
agreements like any other contract and should not give preference to
arbitration. The key issue is not the validity of the arbitration agreement but
whether Plaintiff has waived the right to arbitrate. Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has waived this right. According to the Ninth Circuit’s two-part
test, a waiver occurs when a party has knowledge of the right to compel
arbitration and acts inconsistently with exercising that right. Additionally,
Defendant cites to Morgan, which states that prejudice to the opposing
party is irrelevant when a party has acted inconsistently with the right to
arbitrate. (Morgan, supra, 596 U.S. at 417.)  More recently, the California Supreme Court followed
Morgan, holding that a trial court considering waiver
of right to arbitration should treat the arbitration agreement as it would any
other contract, without applying any special rules based on a policy favoring arbitration.  (Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc.
(2024) 16 Cal.5th 562.)   The Quach Court
opined that its desire for procedural uniformity weighed in favor of abrogating
California's arbitration-specific prejudice requirement and applying the same
principles as the federal courts in determining whether a party has lost the
right to compel arbitration as would apply under generally applicable contract
law. (Quach, supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 582.)  Accordingly, no showing of prejudice is
required any longer under either federal or state law.  
The parties do not dispute the validity or enforceability of the
arbitration provision, but the issue at hand is whether Plaintiff waived her
right to arbitrate.  “To
establish waiver under generally applicable contract law, the party opposing
enforcement of a contractual agreement must prove by clear and convincing
evidence that the waiving party knew of the contractual right and intentionally
relinquished or abandoned it.”  (Quach,
supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 584.)  The waiver
inquiry is exclusively focused on the allegedly waiving party's words or
conduct, as distinct from an estoppel defense which does require a showing of detrimental
reliance on the other party’s conduct.  Looking
at the Quach Court’s decision to find waiver of the right to arbitrate, the
Court discussed the following facts: “Rather than moving to compel arbitration
at the outset of the case, Commerce Club answered the complaint and propounded
discovery requests, suggesting it did not intend to seek arbitration. Although
Commerce Club asserted in its answer that Quach should be compelled to arbitrate,
its counsel did not otherwise raise the issue with Quach's counsel or with the
court. Instead, it affirmatively indicated its preference for a jury trial and
actively pursued discovery. On Commerce Club's initial case management conference
statement, filed about three months after Quach filed his complaint, Commerce
Club requested a jury trial, left the check box for indicating it was “willing
to participate” in arbitration blank . . . .” 
(Quach, supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 586.)  
Defendant’s
Opposition to the motion to compel arbitration recites similar facts, i.e., the
lapse of time, the failure of Plaintiff to move to compel arbitration, the propounding
of discovery, and positions taken in a CMC statement (including failure to
check the box in the ADR section of the form for arbitration) that are
inconsistent with a desire to arbitrate. 
However, there are other facts that militate in the other
direction.  Plaintiff DID seek to
arbitrate with the The Key defendants, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Liberalis’
counsel on May 13 stating that he preferred to arbitrate with Liberalis but in
a separate or dual tracked arbitration, followed by a May 28, 2024 email
indicating an intent to arbitrate with Liberalis if Liberalis had no intention
of settling pre-litigation.  A July 16,
2024 email from Plaintiff’s counsel expressed that ‘arbitration documents are
prepared and ready for filing at any time.” 
On the record before this Court, Liberalis has failed to demonstrate by
clear and convincing evidence that Plaintiff waived the right to
arbitrate.  
Plaintiff’s participation in litigation appears to be a tactical
response while settlement discussions were ongoing, rather than an outright
decision to forego arbitration. The totality of the circumstances does not show
a definitive abandonment of the right to arbitrate. Therefore, the Court
concludes that Plaintiff did not waive her right to arbitration, and grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and to stay the lawsuit pending the outcome of the
arbitration is GRANTED.   The Court will
set an arbitration status conference in early 2025.  
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
and to post the arbitration fees within 30 days. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 