 Case Number:  23TRCV04242    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 26, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV04242
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Gina
M. Salas v. Michael Frank Mellman, MD, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Gina Salas
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant
Michael Frank Mellman, MD
¿¿
TRIAL DATE:                        November
17, 2025
¿¿
MOTION:¿                              (1)
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two
                                                (2)
Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  Plaintiff’s motions are DENIED as
mooted by belatedly served responses while these motions were pending. Nominal
sanctions are awarded in the amount of $100 per motion
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On December 20,
2023, Plaintiff Gina M. Salas filed this wrongful termination action against Defendant
Michael Frank Mellman, MD. Plaintiff alleges that based on Defendant’s conduct,
Plaintiff was discriminated against on the basis of her pregnancy, childbirth,
and other related medical conditions; that Defendant failed to accommodate her
and failed to engage in a good faith interactive process; that Defendant
violated California’s Pregnancy Leave Act; and that Plaintiff was wrongfully
terminated in violation of California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
Plaintiff brings these motions
based on Defendant’s lack of responses to requests for admissions, and lack of Code-compliant
responses to special interrogatories, set two. However, in Defendant’s reply,
Defendant acknowledges that responses, and further responses, have now been
served for the subject discovery.  
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On August 21, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motions. 
 
On September 16,
2024, Defendant filed oppositions. While the oppositions are untimely by one
day, Plaintiff has replied on the merits, and thus the Court will consider the
oppositions in its discretion.  On
September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed replies. 
 
II. MEET AND CONFER
 
            Special
Interrogatories
 
            On August
5, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to defense counsel
regarding the responses to special interrogatories, set two. (Seyedfarshi
Decl., ¶11, Exh. 8.) On August 15, 2024, defense counsel stated that due to Defendant’s vacation schedule, Defendant
would be providing further amended responses by September 6, 2024. (Id. at ¶12,
Exh. 9.) 
 
            Request for Admissions
 
            On August 15, 2024, defense counsel
indicated that Defendant would provide responses to request for admissions by
September 6, 2024 as well. (Seyedfarshi Decl., ¶8, Exh. 3.)
 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿
Further Special
Interrogatories
 
Under CCP §
2030.300,(a), parties may move for a further response to interrogatories where
an answer to the requests are evasive or incomplete or where an objection is
without merit or too general.¿¿
 
            Notice of the motions must be given
within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel a further response. (CCP § 2030.300(c).) The
motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (CCP §
2030.300(b).)¿
 
            CRC, Rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses. (CRC,
Rule 3.1345(a), (c)).¿ 
 
            Where the court grants a motion to
compel further responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.  (CCP § 2030.300(d).)  
 
Request
for Admissions
 
Pursuant to CCP
§ 2033.280(b), a “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
section 2023.010).” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for
admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220. It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (CCP § 2033.280(c).) 
 
B. Discussion 
 
            Further Special Interrogatories
 
            The
Court DENIES the motion because Defendant has provided supplemental responses
since the filing of the motion and Plaintiff acknowledges this in reply. If
Plaintiff takes issue with the supplemental responses, Plaintiff must meet and
confer with Defendant prior to filing a noticed motion addressing the
supplemental responses. Thus, the motion is moot. Defendant requested an IDC, which
Plaintiff declined, and Defendant later responded to Plaintiff’s meet and
confer, stating that they would provide further responses by September 6 given the
Defendants’ and counsel’s intervening vacation. Plaintiff seemingly did not
respond to this message or inquire into extending the motion cut off deadline,
and simply filed this motion rather than conferring even though Defendant was
amenable to supplementing responses.   Plaintiff
argues that they had not agreed to extend the time to respond to this round of
discovery which is true, and that the motions were necessary to ensure that
responses would be served (which they were by the date defense counsel had
promised).  
 
Request
for Admissions
 
            The
Court DENIES the motion because Defendant has provided substantially compliant
responses since the filing of the motion, as acknowledged by Plaintiff in
reply. Plaintiff does not challenge that these responses are substantially
compliant. Second, as with the special interrogatories, Defendant had reached
out to Plaintiff and indicated that responses would be coming on September 6. 
 
            Sanctions.
 
Given
the previous animosity between counsel and the lack of an extension agreement,
the Court agrees with Plaintiff that an appropriate award of monetary sanctions
are required here.  The Court determines
that the amount of $100 per motion, or $200 total, is the reasonable amount to
award under the totality of the circumstances, payable by Defendant or his
counsel within 30 days to counsel for Plaintiff.   If the
message is not conveyed by the Court’s award, the Court will provide this guidance:   Good faith
is a two-way street, and the Court attempts where possible to make its
discovery orders correspond with the needs of the case, the amount in
controversy, the importance of the issues sought by the discovery to the
defense or prosecution of the case, the level of reasonableness demonstrated by
both sides, the urgency of a party’s insistence on strict statutory time
standards, and other factors.  With a
trial date over a year away, perhaps the parties will consider these thoughts
as discovery moves forward.  
 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s motions are DENIED
and nominal sanctions are awarded.
¿¿¿

 