 Case Number:  23TRCV00017    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 September  26, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00017   CASE NAME:                        John Doe; John T.R Doe v. Mason  Swan Lewis, et al. MOVING PARTIES:             Defendant, Mason Swan Lewis   RESPONDING  PARTY:       Plaintiff, John Doe  TRIAL DATE:                        September 15, 2025     MOTION:                              Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment  or in the alternative, Adjudication      Tentative Rulings:                  GRANT  as to IIED cause of action; DENY as to remaining causes of action.  Triable issue as to extent to minor  Plaintiff’s non-economic damages for the privacy and negligence torts, and as  to economic damages notwithstanding the curious timing of his initial visit to  a health care provider while this motion was pending     I. BACKGROUND  A. Factual  On January  4, 2023, Plaintiff, John Doe, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, John T.R.  Doe filed a Complaint against Defendant, Mason Swan Lewis, and DOES 1 through  20. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Invasion of Privacy; (2)  Constructive Invasion of Privacy; (3) Intrusion into Private Affairs; (4)  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (5) Negligence. The  Complaint is based on the following alleged set of facts: On or about February  6, 2022, Plaintiff JOHN DOE and his father went to the Manhattan Country Club,  of which they are members. After exercising at the club, Plaintiff went to the  men's restroom and entered a stall to use the bathroom. While he was using the  bathroom, Plaintiff noticed that another individual, Defendant, entered the  bathroom and entered the stall directly next to Plaintiffs stall. Shortly  thereafter, JOHN DOE noticed a cell phone slide between the stalls 3 times,  seemingly taking pictures or videos of DOE using the bathroom. Upon realizing  what was happening, Plaintiff said something like “wierdo” and heard LEWIS run  out of the bathroom. When Plaintiff exited the bathroom, he spoke with a club  attendant who had seen Defendant flee from the bathroom. Plaintiff and his  father called the Manhattan Beach Police, who responded to the scene and  performed an investigation. Law enforcement confirmed that the perpetrator was  Defendant. Upon executing a search warrant of LEWIS’ cell phone, the police purportedly  found a number of videos that LEWIS had taken of young men at the club,  including a video of Plaintiff using the bathroom. Plaintiff is informed and  believes that Defendant has been criminally charged for his conduct. Defendant  now files a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication as to the  various claimed causes of action. B. Procedural  On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed a  Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication. On September 12 2024, Plaintiff filed  an opposition brief.  Defendants’ reply  papers were field September 20, 2024. II. ANALYSIS   A.    Statement of Facts   Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts             On February 6, 2022, Defendant was  accused of intentionally invading Plaintiff’s privacy in the bathroom of the  Manhattan Country Club’s men’s locker room. (UMF #1.)  Defendant denies intending to invade  Plaintiff’s privacy. (UMF #2.) The Complaint alleges that for the first three  causes of action related to invasion of privacy, Plaintiff suffered mental,  emotional, and other harm, including both economic and non-economic damages.  (UMF #3.) The Complaint further claims that Plaintiff suffered severe mental  and emotional injuries, as well as other harm, for the claims of Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED) and Negligence. (UMF #4). On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff responded to Defendant’s  Special and Form Interrogatories. (UMF #5.) When asked to provide facts  supporting the claim of severe emotional injuries, Plaintiff copied and pasted  selected sentences from the Complaint. (UMF #6.) Plaintiff also provided an  allegedly “generic” response, stating that Defendant’s invasion caused severe  mental and emotional distress, without offering specific details. (UMF #7.) In  identifying witnesses with knowledge of his emotional injuries, Plaintiff did  not name his family members but instead listed Defendant and officers from the  Manhattan Beach Police Department. (UMF #8, UMF #9.) Despite claiming “severe”  emotional distress, before this motion was filed Plaintiff confirmed that he  never sought psychological treatment. (UMF #10.) When asked to describe any physical, mental, or emotional  injuries from the incident, Plaintiff asserted he suffered severe and permanent  injuries, including profound mental suffering and emotional distress. (UMF #11.)  However, in response to inquiries about ongoing complaints, Plaintiff provided  vague answers, simply stating he continues to experience mental suffering and  emotional distress. (UMF #12.) There are no claims of physical injuries or  financial loss resulting from the incident. (UMF #13.) During Plaintiff’s deposition on May 14, 2024, he testified  that it was embarrassing to discuss the incident with a police officer and his  father. (UMF #14.) Plaintiff also mentioned discomfort with public restrooms  but confirmed that he continued to use them. (UMF #15.) Plaintiff stated he was  initially scared to hear there was a video, but later learned that Defendant  deleted it. (UMF #16.) But he fears there may still be a copy looming  somewhere.  After giving these  statements, Plaintiff indicated this was the full extent of the incident’s  impact on him, saying, “And I guess that’s it.” (UMF #17.) When asked if there  were any additional effects, Plaintiff confirmed there were none. (UMF #18.) He  also confirmed the incident had no impact on his academic life. (UMF #19) and  that he returned to the Manhattan Country Club shortly after the incident and  continued to visit. (UMF #20.) Plaintiff did not seek psychological treatment,  and the incident was not discussed with his friends. (UMF #21.) He confirmed,  before this motion was filed, that he had no nightmares or other psychological  issues from the incident. (UMF #22.)   Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Facts On February 6, 2022, Plaintiff John Doe was at the  Manhattan Country Club. (Plaintiff’s Additional Material Facts “PAMF” 1.) After  swimming, Plaintiff went to the men’s restroom and entered a stall. (PAMF 2.)  While in the stall, he noticed someone enter the adjacent stall, and a cell  phone slide between the stalls multiple times, seemingly recording him. (PAMF  3-4.) Upon realizing this, Plaintiff exclaimed, and the individual, Defendant  Mason Swan Lewis, ran out of the bathroom. (PAMF 5.) Plaintiff reported the  incident to Carlos Carrillo, a club attendant, who witnessed Lewis flee. (PAMF  6.) Security footage and a police report corroborated Lewis fleeing the scene  while checking behind him. (PAMF 7.) The police were called, and Carrillo later  identified Lewis in a photo lineup as the perpetrator. (PAMF 8-9.) In his deposition, Lewis admitted to making a video in the  bathroom and recognized Plaintiff’s voice when he asked if he was being  recorded. (PAMF 10-11.). Lewis left the scene without responding to Plaintiff’s  question and later found a new video on his phone, which he transferred to his  computer and named after Plaintiff. (PAMF 12-14.) Lewis also admitted to  recording similar videos in the past. (PAMF 15.) Although Defendant claimed he  deleted the video and did not intend to record Plaintiff, Plaintiff argues that  a jury may not believe that testimony. (PAMF 16-17.)  Plaintiff’s separate statement contains a number of other  claimed disputed material facts that the Court finds are not “material” to the grounds  for this motion, but which demonstrate the contentiousness of this suit.   Plaintiff testified that Lewis’ actions caused him “to feel  really embarrassed” (Doe Depo. at p. 18: 17.)   When asked how the incident made him feel, he also stated that he felt  it was weird, that the incident has led him to having difficulty trusting  people because he had previously considered Lewis a trustworthy person, and  that he continues to feel uncomfortable using public bathrooms even though the  incident has not prevented him from using a public restroom.  (Doe Depo at 18:15-19:6.)  He also testified that he fears that the  video of him taken in the bathroom stall while relieving himself could be or has  been posted online. (PAMF 27-28.) Plaintiff fears that Lewis lied about  deleting the video which allegedly causes Plaintiff ongoing anxiety that the  video could resurface at any time. (PAMF 31.) Plaintiff’s expert, Dr. Deborah Cresswell, diagnosed him  with a trauma disorder resulting from the incident and found that he continues  to experience clinically significant anxiety and depressive symptoms. (PAMF  32-33.) Dr. Cresswell also opined that Lewis’ actions cause Plaintiff stress at  least once a week, even two years after the incident. (PAMF 34.) Additionally,  Plaintiff reported ongoing sadness and fear of being alone, stemming from the  event. (PAMF 35.)   B.     Motion for Summary Judgment Legal  Standard  The purpose  of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut  through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their  allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are  required “to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all  inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other  inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact  and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler  v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) As to each  claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment  must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an  essential element, or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  Once the defendant has met that burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to  show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause  of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion  must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau  (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.  Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Discussion Defendant argues that Plaintiff did  not suffer damages sufficient to state a claim. But there is a triable issue of  fact as to the extent and severity of the plaintiff’s non-economic damages raised  by the deposition testimony cited above and by the psychologist declaration,  and as to economic damages for the single mental health visit and the potential  future psychological treatment Plaintiff may need.  It is not for a court to weigh the evidence  or decide on the credibility of evidence submitted in support of a motion for  summary judgment.  While the Reply takes  Plaintiff to task for attempting to raise a triable issue of fact with the  psychologist’s declaration that is in part contradictory to the Plaintiff’s  deposition testimony, the Court finds sufficient basis in the Plaintiff’s  deposition testimony independent of what he may have reported to Dr. Cresswell  to defeat summary judgment on the basis of lack of damages.   Defendant also argues that  Plaintiff’s claim for IIED fails due to insufficient level of emotional  distress as a matter of law.  For an IIED  claim, the required elements are: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant, (2)  intention to cause or reckless disregard for causing emotional distress, (3)  severe emotional suffering, and (4) causation. (Wong v. Jing (2010) 189  Cal.App.4th 1354, 1376.) While the first two elements may not be in dispute,  Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot meet the third requirement—severe  emotional suffering. Severe emotional distress must be of such substantial or  enduring quality that no reasonable person should be expected to endure it (Potter  v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 971.) Defendant  argues that Plaintiff’s emotional distress, based on his own testimony, does  not meet this standard as he only described embarrassment when speaking to his  father and the police, along with minor discomfort in public restrooms, falling  short of the necessary level of distress. The court in Hughes v. Pair  (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, upheld summary judgment when the plaintiff’s emotional  distress consisted of discomfort, worry, and an upset stomach, which were  deemed insufficient for an IIED claim. Similarly, in Wong v. Jing, the  plaintiff’s emotional upset, lack of sleep, and anxiety did not meet the  threshold for severe emotional distress. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s  testimony does not even reach the level of distress described in Hughes  or Wong. The Opposition attempts to distinguish  Hughes, where all three layers of courts in that case granted and then  affirmed defendant’s motion for summary judgment on the plaintiff’s claim for  IIED. (Hughes, supra, 46 Cal.4th 1035.) The Court found  that the plaintiff failed to prove two essential elements: (1) that the  defendant’s conduct was extreme or outrageous, and (2) that the plaintiff  suffered severe emotional distress. (Id.) The defendant’s inappropriate  comments in that case, made in the context of ongoing legal disputes about  trust fund allocations, were not considered extreme or outrageous, nor did the  plaintiff’s emotional reactions—discomfort, worry, anxiety, and upset stomach—  meet the high standard for severe emotional distress. (Id. at 1051.)    The Court finds this case to be similar  to Hughes for purposes of the IIED analysis on the severed emotional  distress damages issue, and it therefore GRANTS summary adjudication on  the IIED cause of action.  As to the  other causes of action, the Court finds that Plaintiff has presented triable issues  of fact as to whether he suffered emotional and mental injuries due to  Defendant’s actions such that there are damages he can recover.  While Defendant cites to a series of cases  headed by the Second District’s decision in Lee v.  Bank of America (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 914,  that case does not entirely help Defendant here.  It is true that on page 920 the Lee Court  notes that damages for emotional distress unaccompanied by physical  injury may be awarded in a tort action as long as the claimed injury suffered is  severe, i.e., “substantial or enduring as distinguished from trivial or  transitory.” (quoting Young v. Bank of America (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d  108, 114.)   It is also true that as a  general rule, California courts have limited emotional suffering damages to  cases involving either physical impact and injury to plaintiff OR  INTENTIONAL WRONGDOING BY DEFENDANT.”   (emphasis added.)  The Lee  Court further added: “”Damages for emotional suffering are allowed when the  tortfeasor's conduct, although negligent as a matter of law, contains elements  of intentional malfeasance or bad faith.”   (Lee, supra, 218 Cal.App.3d at p. 920.)  Here, the allegations include intentional  misconduct, and it appears even Defendant concedes that his videorecording of a  minor in a bathroom stall was deliberate, intentional, even if perhaps as a  joke.  On the evidence and law presented  to the Court, there are triable issues on both economic and non-economic  damages that warrant resolution by the trier of fact, not by the Court on a  Section 437c motion, as to the other causes of action besides IIED.          