  Case Number:  19STCV27867    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 26, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      19STCV27867
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Rafael Torres v.
Technion Contractors TCI, Inc., et al.  
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-Defendants,
Asbestos Instant Response, Inc.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Cross-Complainant, Technion Contractors
TCI, Inc. 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       October 7, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Motion to Disqualify Yukevich Cavanaugh Firm 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  DENIED, but the Court has several questions before it can make a
final ruling
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
 On September
16, 2020, TCI filed a Cross-Complaint against cross-defendants Asbestos Instant
Response, Inc. (“AIR”) and Roes 1 through 20.  The causes of action were narrowed in the Second
Amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Express
Indemnity; (2) Breach of Written Contract; (3) Subrogation; and (4) Violation
of Civil Code section 2782.05(f). 
 
TCI’s SAXC alleges that on May 7, 2018, AIR entered
into a written subcontractor Agreement (the “Agreement”) with TCI to provide
demolition and abatement work at Paseo Del Rey Elementary School Natural
Science Magnet School, located at 7751 Paseo Del Rey in Playa Del Rey,
California (the “Project”). (SAXC, ¶ 8.) TCI asserts that Rafael Torres
(“Plaintiff”) was an employee of AIR and performed work for AIR at the Project.
(SAXC, ¶ 9.) The SAXC alleges that while performing work for AIR at the Project
and in the course and scope of such employment, on July 1, 2019, Plaintiff
negligently cut a gas line that ignited, causing injury to Plaintiff. (SAXC, ¶ 10.)
TCI notes that on August 8, 2019, Plaintiff filed his complaint, pleading a
single cause of action for negligence and alleging that TCI was liable for
damages caused by the July 1, 2019 incident. (SAXC, ¶ 11.)
 
 
B.   
Procedural¿¿ 
On September 23, 2024, two weeks before the trial,
TCI filed a Motion for Disqualification of the lead trial counsel for AIR, the Yukevich
Cavanaugh firm.  That firm had just associated
in a month before.  The Court set a
hearing by ex parte application to shorten time, so that the hearing on the DQ
motion could be heard on the same September 26 date as the previously scheduled
FSC.  On September 25, 2024, AIR filed an
opposition brief with supporting declarations. 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
            Given the expedited briefing and
hearing schedule, and given the Court’s pending jury trial and pre-existing calendar,
the Court lacks the time to prepare its typical detailed tentative ruling.   The Court’s view is that AIR has met
its burden of showing that Mr. Guest has not been at all involved in the defense
of AIR in conflict with Guest’s earlier representation of TCI in opposition to
AIR in this very case, and that the Yukevich firm took immediate and effective
action upon learning of Guest’s prior involvement in this case such that the most
of the proper ethical barriers have been installed to prevent any future basis
for vicarious disqualification.  Mr.
Guest himself obviously cannot participate in any way in the Yukevich firm’s representation
of AIR going forward, and as an officer of the Court he has sworn to remain
walled off from doing so.
 
            Nonetheless, the Court has several
concerns to be addressed at oral argument. 
First, there is no declaration from the IT Director or the Yukevich managing
partner as to digital or mechanical barriers to ensure Guest does not intentionally
or unintentionally gain access to the firm’s files and papers for this matter.  Assuming that the Yukevich firm has a digital
network to which all of its lawyers have easy and ready access, how is the firm
going to safeguard against Guest from gaining network access to the firm’s AIR files,
emails, work product and the like? 
Second, Mr. Guest has not addressed why he was unaware of his rejoined
firm’s representation of a previously adverse party for a month until Mr.
Yukevich himself confronted Guest.  Does not
the Yukevich firm have an internal new matter dissemination so that all lawyers
and especially newly joining lawyers promptly learn of potentially conflicting prior
representation or related ethical concerns that could result in whole-firm
disqualification?  How was the Torres
v Technion case missed by Mr. Guest? 
Third, what steps will be taken at the firm to ensure that Mr. Guest’s
support staff including secretaries, law clerks, word processors and paralegals
who work with him do not discuss any aspect of the AIR representation with him?  Finally, Mr. Guest has not specifically
represented his acknowledgment of his ethical duty to refrain from disclosing
the confidences and secrets of his former client TCI nor to use any work
product from his former representation of TCI, even as a “form” file, in his
work at the Yukevich firm.  Did he bring
with him into the Yukevich firm any of his work product from representing TCI
such as outlines, legal research, briefing, or summaries and if so did he
upload them into the Yukevich firm’s network where it could be accessed by others?
 
            If these concerns are adequately addressed
then the Court would be inclined to deny this disqualification motion.  
 