  Case Number:  22SMCV00063    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cienega
Ventures LLC v. 730 N. La Cienega LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00063
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to Augment Expert Witness Disclosure;
                                    Motion to Strike Expert Witness
HEARING DATE:    12/4/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
On motion of any party who has
engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information, the court may grant
leave to (1) augment that party’s expert witness list and declaration by adding
the name and address of any expert witness whom that party has subsequently
retained; and/or (2) amend that party’s expert witness declaration with respect
to the general substance of the testimony that an expert previously designated
is expected to give. (CCP § 2034.610(a).) This motion shall be made a
sufficient time in advance to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the
motion relates to be taken before the discovery cut-off, unless exceptional
circumstances exist. (CCP § 2034.610(b).) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (CCP § 2034.610(c).)  
 
The court shall grant leave to
augment or amend an expert witness list if all of the following conditions are
satisfied:  
 
(a) The court has taken into
account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert
witnesses. 
 
(b) The court has determined that
any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that
party’s action or defense on the merits. 
 
(c) The court has determined either
of the following: 
 
(1)
The moving party would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have
determined to call that expert witness or have decided to offer the different
or additional testimony of that expert witness. 
 
(2)
The moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or to offer
the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result of
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has
done both of the following: 
 
(A) Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the
expert witness or to offer the different or additional testimony. 
 
(B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness
information concerning the expert or the testimony described in Section
2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action. 
 
(d) Leave to augment or amend is
conditioned on the moving party making the expert available immediately for a
deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other
terms as may be just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party
opposing the motion to designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit
additional opinions from those previously designated, a continuance of the
trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation
expenses to any party opposing the motion. 
 
(CCP § 2034.620.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
This hearing pertains to two interrelated
motions. Plaintiff Cienega Ventures LLC moves for an order authorizing the
amendment of Plaintiff’s expert witness disclosure in this matter to include
the name Hossain Motamedi as a non-retained expert. Defendants 730 North La
Cienega, LLC and Koi LP moves to strike Plaintiff’s late addition to the
witness list.
 
Plaintiff explains that Mr. Motamedi
gained percipient knowledge of the premises at issue after the expert witness deadline
had passed. Plaintiff hired Mr. Motamedi in mid-August 2024 to inspect the
Premises as it related to the ADA issue and to provide a quote for the costs to
perform the necessary renovations. 
 
Plaintiff fails to show good cause
for leave. There are not “exceptional circumstances” present that justify
Plaintiff’s failure to disclose and depose this expert in advance of the
discovery cut off. Plaintiff belatedly sought to augment their expert witness
list by moving to augment on October 24, 2024, which was a month after the discovery
cut off and two months after hiring the Mr. Motamedi and obtaining his report. There
is no justification for this delay. Furthermore, Plaintiff retained and
disclosed a construction expert, Danny Shuster, to testify regarding the nature
and cost of the renovations necessary to address the ADA violations. Mr. Motamedi’s
testimony would be entirely redundant with Mr. Shuster’s expert testimony. Thus,
denial would cause no prejudice to Plaintiff.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is
DENIED and Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.