 Case Number:  24SMCP00411    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Creative
Artists Agency LLC, et al., v. Range Media Partners LLC
CASE NO.:                24SMCP00411
MOTION:                  Motion
to Seal
HEARING DATE:   12/4/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
The sealing of trial court records is governed by California Rules of
Court (“CRC), rules 2.550 and 2.551. (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68.) Pleadings, motions, discovery documents, and
other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the parties—a
prior court order must be obtained. (CRC, Rule 2.551(a); see H.B. Fuller Co.
v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 888.)
 
To seal a record, the following
requirements are imposed: (1) the party must file a motion or
application for an order sealing the record, which must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing; (2) the
party must serve a copy of the motion on all parties who have appeared in the
case; and (3) the party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must lodge it with the court when the motion or application is made unless the
record has previously been lodged. (CRC, Rule 2.551(b).)  
 
The Court must make the following
express factual findings in order to seal records: (1) an overriding
interest exists that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2)
the overriding interest supports sealing the records; (3) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest. (CRC, Rule 2.550(d).) These findings embody constitutional requirements for a request to seal
court records, protecting the First Amendment right of public access to civil
trials. (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)
 
An order sealing the record must
specifically state the facts that support the findings and direct the sealing
of only those pages and documents or, if reasonably practicable, portions of
those documents and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed
under seal, and all other portions must be included in the public
file. (CRC, rule 2.550(e).) 
 
Once sealed, a record can only be unsealed by order of court. (CRC, Rule
2.551(h)(1).) So long as it remains under seal, all parties must refrain from
filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed matter. (Id.,
Rule 2.551(c).) If a party files a new document referring to sealed matter, it
must submit an unredacted version of the document under seal and a redacted one
for the public record. (Id., Rule 2.551(b)(5).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioners Creative Artists
Agency, LLC, Creative Artists Agency Holdings, LLC; CAA Holdings, LLC; and CAA
Equity Incentive, Series 2 LLC (“Petitioners”) move to seal certain documents
lodged in connection with their concurrently filed Petition to Compel
Compliance With Arbitration Subpoenas Served By Petitioners On Third-Parties
Range Media Partners, LLC and Peter Micelli (“Petition”), including:
 
1. Petition to Compel Compliance with
Arbitration Subpoenas Served by Petitioners on Third-Parties Range Media
Partners, LLC and Peter Micelli, unredacted;
2. Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Petition to Compel Compliance with Arbitration
Subpoenas Served by Petitioners on Third-Parties Range Media Partners, LLC and
Peter Micelli, unredacted; and
3. Declaration of Elena R. Baca in
Support of Petition to Compel Compliance with Arbitration Subpoenas Served By
Petitioners On Third-Parties Range Media Partners, LLC and Peter Micelli,
unredacted, and Exhibits A-E, unredacted.
 
            Petitioners
demonstrate that the above materials contain information disclosed by the
Former CAA Members which contain CAA’s proprietary, confidential and trade
secret information. (Mendelson Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) CAA actively protects its
commercially sensitive information and its technology from disclosure to third
parties and requires its employees and members to execute confidentiality
agreements prior to CAA granting access to confidential and proprietary
information. (¶ 2.) Disclosure of the proprietary, confidential, private,
commercially sensitive, and/or trade secret materials and information would
risk competitive harm to CAA. (¶ 4.) CAA’s overriding interest in protecting
this information from public disclosure and potential market competitors
supports sealing the record. No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest, as the proposed redactions are narrowly tailored to
confidential information.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.