 Case Number:  22SMCV00677    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Krupp v. Norris,
et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00677
MOTION:                  Referee's
Motion for (1) Approval of Distribution Plan, (2) Approval of the Referee's
Final Report and Account, (3) Approval of Final Fees and Costs, and (4)
Discharge of Referee
HEARING DATE:   12/4/2024

 
ANALYSIS
 
Court Appointed Referee Stephen J.
Donell (the “Referee”) moves for an order approving the Referee’s counsel
Levinson Arshonsky Kurtz & Komsky LLP’s (“Counsel”) Final Fee Application
pursuant to the Court’s April 6, 2023, Interlocutory Judgment for Partition by
Sale of Property and for Appointment of Stephen J. Donell as the Partition
Referee Pursuant to Stipulation of the Parties (the “Appointment Order”).
Specifically, the Referee requests the Court approve:
 
1. Counsel’s interim fees and costs
previously paid in the amount of $141,405.94;
2. Fees and Costs incurred for
October 2024 but unpaid in the amount of $8,552.89; and
3. Authorization to holdback
$20,000 for Counsel to complete this matter.
 
The motion is substantively
unopposed. The Court is inclined to approve the requested fees, costs, and
holdback as indicated above.
 
Defendant Norris provides a limited
opposition to the extent that Referee seeks to “surcharge” Norris in the amount
of $13,260.00. (Report, ¶¶ 36-38; see Blumenfeld Decl., ¶¶ 20, 26-27, 32, Ex.
3.) Norris’s opposition is untimely, as it was filed less than 9 court days
prior to the hearing. Furthermore, the Referee demonstrates that Norris failed
to object to any of the interim charges at the time they were incurred and
noticed. Thus, the opposition may be disregarded at the Court’s discretion.
 
Critically, the Court cannot locate
any request by the Referee to “surcharge” Norris. The Court can only locate
fees incurred by Referee for Counsel which will be paid by the Estate, as
described in the moving papers and in the proposed order. Referee and his Counsel
reasonably incurred such fees, including those fees responding to Norris/Barton’s
email and researching appropriate legal avenues to prevent Norris/Barton from
interfering with the sale. Whether or not the Referee incurred these fees
because of Norris and Barton is of no importance. Simply put, those fees were
reasonably incurred and should be paid by the Estate. As such, the Court does
not have to make any determination on any unrequested “surcharge” to Norris. 
 
Accordingly, the Referee’s motion
is GRANTED.