 Case Number:  22AHCV01004    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
24, 2023                                            TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         THOMAS ARNOT v.
LEAL REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS dba LA CHUPERIA CANTINA; AMADO LEAL
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01004
 
 
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Jose Perez, counsel for Defendants
Leal Real Estate Investments, LLC and Amado Leal 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed September 29, 2023 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Counsel for Defendants Leal Real
Estate Investments, LLC and Amdo Leal, Jose Perez (“Perez”), moves to be
relieved as counsel of record for Defendants. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Thomas Arnot’s
(“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Leal Real Estate Investments dba La
Chuperia Cantina and Amado Leal (“Defendants”) negligently operated their
business causing Plaintiff to suffer harm from third-parties present at
Defendants’ premises. Plaintiff filed this complaint on November 3, 2022.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            The court
will delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of
service of a copy of the signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the
clients have been properly served with notice of the next trial date have been
filed with the court.
 
            Perez is
ordered to submit a declaration or affirmatively inform the court at the
hearing that Leal Real Estate Investments, LLC understands that as corporations
it cannot proceed in pro per status.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service and filing of the declaration or affirmative
statements at hearing, Perez’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or substitution of
attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk,
or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to a substitution
of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth
procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving
papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also requires that the motion, notice of
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served on the
client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that show
that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business
address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current
address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. 
[Citation.]  We are, however,
aware of no authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Perez is currently counsel of record
for both Defendants. Perez provides that there has been a breakdown of
attorney-client communication but also provides he cannot divulge the specifics
of the issues. He also provides that he served the documents on the clients by
mail at the client’s last known location, which was confirmed by telephone. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The court
will delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of
service of a copy of the signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the
clients have been properly served with notice of the next trial date have been
filed with the court.
 
            Perez is
ordered to submit a declaration or affirmatively inform the court at the
hearing that Leal Real Estate Investments, LLC understands that as corporations
it cannot proceed in pro per status.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service and filing of the declaration or affirmative
statements at hearing, Perez’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 24,
2023                                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court