 Case Number:  22AHCV01264    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 24, 2023                                            TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         KEVIN JON RITCHIE,
an individual, v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01264
 
 
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant General Motors LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Kevin Jon Ritchie
 
SERVICE:                              Filed June 30, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed August 11, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant demurrers to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment and moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Kevin Jon
Ritchie’s (“Plaintiff’) lemon law claim against Defendant General Motors LLC
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges he purchased a 2021 GMC Sierra, Vehicle
Identification Number 3GTU9CEDXMG169786 (“Subject Vehicle”) on December 18,
2020. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on May 30, 2023, alleging four
causes of action for (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express
warranty, (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty, (3)
violation of the Song Beverly Act section 1793.2, and (4) fraud – fraudulent
inducement – concealment. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages is GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Demurrer 
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant demurrers to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for fraudulent
concealment. Defendant previously demurred to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action and this court sustained the previous demurrer. As before, the primary
issue is whether Plaintiff has alleged a duty to disclose. 
 
“[T]he elements of an action for
fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) 
 
“[F]raud may consist of a
suppression of a material fact in circumstances under which the defendant has a
legal duty of disclosure.” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1186, internal citations omitted.) “[W]here material
facts are known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose them is
not actionable fraud unless there is some relationship between
the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose such known facts. A
relationship between the parties is present if there is “some sort of transaction between the parties.” (Id. at
p. 1187.) “Thus, a duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between
seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.” (Ibid.) 
 
            “There are ‘four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. [Citation.]’ ” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) 
 
            Plaintiff
once again argues that Defendant was under a duty to disclose because it had
exclusive knowledge and actively concealed facts. However, those issues do not
exist in a vacuum. “Each of the other three circumstances in which
nondisclosure may be actionable presupposes the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to
disclose can arise.” (LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th 326m, 336-37.) In
order to overcome this obstacle, Plaintiff asserts that there is a direct
transaction because he purchased the Subject Vehicle from Defendant’s agent
(FAC ¶ 4), or that a direct
transaction is not required (FAC ¶ 14.)
 
            In support of its positions, Plaintiff relies on Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844. However,
Plaintiff’s reliance on Dhital presents two separate issues. First, the
California Supreme Court granted the petition to review Dhital, and
California Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115, subdivision (e)(1), provides: “Pending review
and filing of the Supreme Court's opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the
Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion of a Court of Appeal in the matter
has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited for potentially
persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal opinion must also
note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the Supreme Court.”
Plaintiff fails to mention that review of Dhital was granted.
 
            Further, the
reasoning in Dhital regarding the issue of the sufficiency of the
plaintiffs’ allegations for its fraudulent concealment claim was brief, and the
Court noted that the defendant had failed to present a sufficiently developed
argument on point. (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 844.)
Plaintiff’s repeated reliance on Dhital is unavailing. Plaintiff does
not allege a transaction with Defendant but rather alleges a transaction with
Thorson GMC TRK-Buick MTR. (FAC ¶ 4.)
 
            Because Plaintiff has failed to allege a transaction
giving rise to a duty to disclose, his cause of action for fraudulent
concealment fails. Defendant’s demurrer is sustained.
 
            Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant once
again moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages on the grounds
that Plaintiff’s first amended complaint lacks sufficient basis to plead a
prayer for punitive damages.
 
            Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a). A plaintiff seeking punitive damages “must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages. [Citation.]
Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.) 
 
            Because
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for
fraudulent concealment was sustained, Plaintiff’s FAC lacks any basis for a
prayer for punitive damages. Defendant’s motion to strike is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days  leave
to amend.
 
            Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 24,
2023                                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
