 Case Number:  23AHCV00075    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
24, 2023                                            TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         VERONICA PRADO;
ANTHONY NARANGO v. TLD TRANSPORT, INC.; ZHENG ZHAO and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive.
 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00075
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant TLD Transport, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed September 27, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant TLD Transport, Inc.
(“TLD”) moves to compel responses to its request for the production of
document, set two. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Veronica
Prado and Anthony Narango’s (“Plaintiffs”) claims that Defendants TLD
Transport, Inc. and Zheng Zhao negligently operated or entrusted a vehicle.
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on January 11, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to request
for production of documents number 34 is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            TLD
moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs to provide a response to its requests
for the production of documents, set two. TLD provides it served its requests
for the production of documents, set two, on July 5, 2023. (Sherman Decl. ¶ 4.) TLD provides Defendants served objections on August
8, 2023. (Ibid.)
 
            TLD brings this motion as a motion to compel a response
rather than as a motion to compel further responses. One significant difference
between the motions is that a motion to compel further responses requires a
separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) 
 
The preliminary issue then is whether Plaintiffs’ objections are a
response. In the court’s view, the answer is in the affirmative. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.210, subdivision (a)(3), provides that a party may
respond to a demand for inspection with “[a]n objection to the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.” Further, a party may
move for further responses on the grounds that “[a]n objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310,
subd. (a)(3).) Because the relevant code sections allow a party responding to a
discovery response to object and a party to compel further responses over those
objections, the correct motion here is a motion to compel further responses. 
 
However, for the sake of judicial efficiency, because there is
only one discovery request at issue, the court will rule on the substantive
issue raised by this motion. 
 
The sole discovery request at issue is request for production
(“RFP”) number 34, which seeks: “The recording of the independent
medical examination of Veronica Prado that took place on April 5, 2023.”
Plaintiffs objected on the grounds of attorney-client privilege. Defendant’s
motion to compel a response to request for production number 34 is granted.
However, to the extent Plaintiffs assert that the discovery requests seeks
privileged information, they are entitled to submit a code-complaint privilege
log. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s motion to compel further verified responses
to request for production of documents number 34 within 20 days is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 24,
2023                                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
