 Case Number:  21STCV09411    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 10, 2021, Plaintiff Yader Pedrosa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Jason Tanner, Hertz Corporation, and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
October 11, 2022, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing service of the
summons, complaint, and other documents on “Jason Tanner, an individual in care
of Hertz Corporation through their agent for service CT Corporation” on
September 12, 2022.  Plaintiff also filed
a proof of service showing service on Hertz Corporation. 
On
March 7, 2023, Defendant The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”) filed an answer. 
On
April 12, 2023, Defendant Jason Tanner (served on The Hertz Corporation on behalf
of its renter under Civil Code section 1939.33) (“Tanner”) filed an answer. 
On April
11, 2024, Hertz and Tanner filed a motion for leave to file an amended or
corrected answer on Tanner’s behalf.  In
addition, Hertz filed a motion for leave to intervene on Tanner’s behalf. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 29, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Hertz
and Tanner request leave to file an amended or corrected answer on Tanner’s
behalf. 
Hertz
requests leave to intervene on Tanner’s behalf. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion for leave to amend pleading 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“Courts
usually display great liberality in allowing amendments to answers because ‘a
defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a defense.’”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:643, p. 6-189 (Cal.
Practice Guide), quoting Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
In
addition, “it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the
opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:656,
p. 6-193.) 
B.   Civil Code section 1939.33 
Civil
Code section 1939.33 provides: 
“(a) When a rental company enters into a rental
agreement in the state for the rental of a vehicle to any renter who is not a
resident of this country and, as part of, or associated with, the rental
agreement, the renter purchases liability insurance, as defined in subdivision
(b) of Section 1758.85 of the Insurance Code, from the rental company in its
capacity as a rental vehicle agent for an authorized insurer, the rental
company shall be authorized to accept, and, if served as set forth in this
section, shall accept, service of a summons and complaint and any other
required documents against the foreign renter for any accident or collision
resulting from the operation of the rental vehicle within the state during the
rental period. If the rental company has a registered agent for service of
process on file with the Secretary of State, process shall be served on the
rental company’s registered agent, either by first-class mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service. 
“(b) Within 30 days of acceptance of service of
process, the rental company shall provide a copy of the summons and complaint
and any other required documents served in accordance with this section to the
foreign renter by first-class mail, return receipt requested. 
“(c) Any plaintiff, or his or her representative, who
elects to serve the foreign renter by delivering a copy of the summons and
complaint and any other required documents to the rental company pursuant to
subdivision (a) shall agree to limit his or her recovery against the foreign
renter and the rental company to the limits of the protection extended by the
liability insurance. 
“(d) Notwithstanding the requirements of Sections
17450 to 17456, inclusive, of the Vehicle Code, service of process in
compliance with subdivision (a) shall be deemed a valid and effective service. 
“(e) Notwithstanding any other law, the requirement
that the rental company accept service of process pursuant to subdivision (a)
shall not create any duty, obligation, or agency relationship other than that
provided in subdivision (a).” 
(Civ. Code, § 1939.33.) 
C.   Motion for leave to intervene 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 387 provides in part: 
“(b) An intervention takes place when a nonparty,
deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or proceeding between other
persons by doing any of the following: 
* * * 
“(2) uniting with a defendant in resisting the claims
of a plaintiff. 
* * *
“(c) A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to
intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include
a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and
set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests. 
“(d) (1) The court shall, upon timely application,
permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the
following conditions is satisfied: 
“(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right
to intervene. 
“(B) The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties. 
“(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both. . . ." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 387,
subds. (b)(2), (c), (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
I.              
Defendants’
motion for leave to amend answer 
A.   The complaint 
In the
complaint, Plaintiff alleges that on or about April 10, 2019, on Culver Boulevard
in Los Angeles County, Defendants negligently entrusted, managed, maintained,
drove, and operated their vehicle, causing it to collide with Plaintiff’s
vehicle and injure Plaintiff. 
B.  
The answer 
The answer filed April 12, 2023 refers to the party
filing it as “Defendant JASON TANNER (Served on THE
HERTZ CORPORATION on Behalf of its Renter Under the Provisions of California
Civil Code §1939.33).” 
C.   The motion 
Hertz
and Tanner (“Defendants”) ask to replace the answer’s references to “Defendant
JASON TANNER (Served on THE HERTZ CORPORATION on Behalf of its Renter Under the
Provisions of California Civil Code §1939.33)” with the following: “Defendant
THE HERTZ CORPORATION (on Behalf of its Foreign Renter, Jason Tanner, Served
Pursuant to the Provisions of California Civil Code §1939.33).” 
Defendants
argue this change more accurately reflects Hertz’s standing in the case.  According to Defendants, Hertz is providing liability
coverage to Tanner, a citizen and resident of England.  Under Civil Code section 1939.33, Defendants contend, Hertz “was required to appear on behalf of Mr. Tanner” because his
whereabouts are unknown.  If Hertz had
not entered an appearance on Tanner’s behalf, Plaintiff might have taken Tanner’s default and obtained default judgment against him.  Therefore, Defendants argue, Hertz is the
real party in interest and the Court should grant leave to amend the answer to
reflect that status. 
The
Court has seen no evidence that the opposing party will be misled or prejudiced
by the proposed amendment.  Therefore, the
Court grants the motion to amend the answer. 
In granting the motion, however, the Court is not addressing any issues
concerning the application of Civil Code section 1939.33 or the identity of the
real party in interest. 
II.           
Hertz’s
motion for leave to intervene 
Hertz
asks for leave to intervene on behalf of Defendant Jason Tanner to avoid the entry of judgment
against Tanner for failure to comply with discovery requests and orders.  According to
Hertz, it is contractually obligated to provide liability protection coverage
to Tanner and therefore has an interest that supports intervention. 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 387 authorizes intervention by “nonparties,” but Hertz acknowledges that it is an “existing party.” 
(Motion p. 10.)  Nonetheless, Hertz
has shown that intervention on Tanner’s behalf will allow it to protect its
interest in avoiding rulings against Tanner that would expose Hertz to
liability.  Therefore, the Court
concludes that the statute’s reference to “nonparties” was not intended to
exclude a co-defendant in a situation like this one. 
The
Court grants the motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision
(d) (2), finding that Hertz “has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in
the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.” 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant The Hertz Corporation’s motion to amend its answer.  Defendant
The Hertz Corporation is to file its amended answer within 30 days of the
hearing on this motion. 

The
Court GRANTS Defendant The Hertz Corporation's motion to intervene on behalf of
Defendant Jason Tanner.  Defendant The
Hertz Corporation is to file its answer in intervention within 30 days of the
hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.