 Case Number:  22STCV28462    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28462




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Vacate Order Deeming Requests for Admissions Admitted Under CCP 473(d)




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Target Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Nancy Pogue 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Nancy Pogue (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants Mauricio Christopher Torres, Patrick Bennet, Target
Corporation, and Does 1 to 50 alleging injuries after her purse was stolen while
shopping at a Target store. 
 
On August 5, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted Request for Admissions, Set One, against
Target Corporation (“Target”). 
 
On October 15, 2024, the Court
denied Target’s motion to be relieved from the deem admissions. 
 
Target now moves under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(d), arguing that the August 5, 2024 order is void because
Plaintiff did not provide proper notice for the hearing. Plaintiff opposes.[1] Target replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d)
states “[t]he court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion,
correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to
conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after
notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.”¿
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff’s motion to deem
admitted admissions was originally set for July 5, 2024. However, Plaintiff and
Target agreed to continue trial and continue the hearing for the motion. The
motion was then continued to August 5, 2024. On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff emailed
the new hearing dates to Target’s counsel Jessica Farley (“Farley”). However,
the email was only addressed to Farley, and not the other two emails that
Target previously designated to receive notice. These two email addresses
belonged to attorney Sean Burnett, and more importantly, paralegal Tracy Brower
(“Brower”), who Target maintains was responsible for calendaring the hearing
dates. (See Farley Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1; Brower Decl. ¶ 3.) Farley was out of the
office between July 23 to August 6, 2024. 
 
            On August
2, 2024, Brower checked the docket for this case and discovered the August 5,
2024 hearing. (Brower Decl. ¶ 5.) As a result, on Friday August 2, 2024,
associate Daniel P. Park was assigned to appear at the August 5, 2024 hearing.
Park declares that he was out of the office for most of the day on August 2,
2024 because he was making arrangements for his wedding on August 7, 2024, and
did not realize that Target had not filed an opposition or responses until
shortly before the August 5 hearing, after reading the tentative ruling. (Park
Decl. ¶ 5.)  
 
As a result, Target argues that its
due process rights were violated since it did not have the opportunity to
oppose Plaintiff’s motion. Therefore, Target asks the Court to find the order
to be void.
 
Target relies on an email that
Brower sent to Plaintiff on July 20, 2023, designating three email addresses
that should receive notices in this case. (Farley Decl., Exh. 1.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that California Rules of Court, rule 2.251(b), which Target relies upon to
argue that notice should have been sent to all three emails, requires “[s]erving
a notice on all parties and other persons that the party or other person
accepts electronic service and filing the notice with the court”, which Target
did not do. (Opp., 5.) Plaintiff also shows that on July 2, 2024, she sent
Target’s counsel the continued hearing date which contained all the necessary
information, and that Target’s counsel responded and added her paralegal,
Brower, to the chain. (See Sarukhanyan Decl. ¶ 11-13, Exh. H.)
 
In reply, Target argues that Rule
2.251(b) does not impose a mandatory requirement to file a notice and does not
excuse a party’s failure to properly serve a party that has requested that
electronic service be made to specific addresses. (Reply at p. 3.)
 
The Court finds that Target had
sufficient notice of the continued hearing dates. The notice was emailed to
Target’s counsel on July 2, 2024. (Opp. at Exh. H.) That same day, counsel
replied to the email and copied her paralegal, demonstrating that she knew that
the paralegal was not copied on the original email. (See id.) The email
itself referenced the fees for rescheduling the hearings on motions to compel.[2] (See
id.) Although Plaintiff’s original email did not include all three service
email addresses, Target does not establish that service of notice on one
counsel rather than on two counsel and one paralegal deprives Target of its due
process rights. Moreover, Target has not established that a purported failure
to comply with Code of Civil Procedure 1010.6(b)(4) renders a prior order void.[3]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Target Corporation’s Motion to Vacate
Order Deeming Requests for Admissions Admitted Under CCP 473(d).
 
Moving party to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


