 Case Number:  22STCV06108    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV06108




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Arminda Orellana 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on October 14, 2024 by Petitioner Arminda Orellana (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant Freddy Garcia, age 16. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
First, Petitioner must write Claimant’s name in the
petition and proposed orders, exactly how it appears in the operative complaint
and order appointing a guardian ad litem: Federico Garcia Valencia. 
 
Petitioner
must provide more information in item 10c describing the terms of the
settlement.
 
While
Petitioner does not indicate that anyone besides Claimant is receiving money
from this settlement in item 11b(5), it appears Plaintiff Lesly Garcia is also
receiving money. (See attachment 5, item 17f.) Item 11b(1) and 11b(5) should
only reflect the settlement to “persons other than the claimant.” Therefore,
Freddy’s name should not appear. While item 11b(4) states Petitioner will also
receive money, this is not reflected in the attorney declaration in attachment
5. Item 11b(4) must be reviewed. 
 
Petitioner requests $194,625 in attorney fees which represents
45% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount is not supported by
the attorney declaration. Petitioner should also provide an English translation
of the fee agreement. 
 
Item 17f should reflect the amount of attorney fees that
are expected, not the total settlement. 
 
Attachment 18b3 must contain more information about the
terms, including where the annuity will be purchased. 
 
In the Proposed Order (MC-351), item 6 must contain the
gross settlement: $432,500. The $11,014.77 to be reimbursed for non-medical
expenses should be in item 8a(2). Item 8a(5) must be re-calculated. 
 
In MC-355, item 5b must contain Claimant’s birth date. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 