 Case Number:  22STCV19719    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19719




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Henry Utama




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on October 22, 2024 by Petitioner Henry Utama (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Ian Law, age 16. The Court
denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Attachment 10c must contain the terms of the settlement
and not the annuity. 
 
Petitioner seeks $37,484.58 in attorney fees that
represents 46.8% of the gross settlement. This again exceeds the 40% fee from
the fee agreement. Again, the declaration is insufficient to support the 40%
sought.
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 