 Case Number:  23STCV16580    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV16580




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Plaintiff’s Service of Summons and Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Specially Appearing Defendant Deeran
  Demanco Anderson




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff Cory Bouthillette (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Deeran Demanco Anderson and Does 1 to 50 for negligence
related to a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of the
summons and complaint showing they were personally served on Deeran Demanco
Anderson on September 5, 2024.
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Deeran Demanco Anderson (“Defendant”)
now moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, arguing service was
defective and as such, the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendant. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for one or
more of the following purposes:¿ (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . . .”¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10(a).)¿The motion must be filed on or before the last day on which the
defendant must plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow. (Id.) 
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is
essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]”¿(Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)¿“[T]he filing of a proof of
service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only
if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.”¿(Id. at
1441-42.) ¿On a motion to quash service of summons, the plaintiff has the
burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence the prima facie facts
entitling the court to assume jurisdiction, including whether service was in
compliance with statutory requirements. (Lebel v Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th
1154, 1160.) A court may rely upon the verified declarations of the parties and
other competent witnesses. (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1362.) “A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper
service of process.”¿(Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 416.90 states: “[a] summons may be
served on a person not otherwise specified in this article by delivering a copy
of the summons and of the complaint to such person or to a person authorized by
him to receive service of process.” 
            
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, the proof of service of the summons and complaint
states that Defendant was served on September 5, 2024 at “16206 Oaktree Ln
Romulus, MI 48174-3016.” Defendant declares under penalty of perjury that this
address is his mother’s address, which he does not reside at, and was not
present at on the day of service. (Anderson Decl. ¶ 4-5.) He further declares
he does not reside in Michigan and was not in the state of Michigan on the date
of service. (Id. ¶ 7.) He asserts that the person served was his younger
brother, who is a minor. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
As a result, Defendant has provided enough evidence to
rebut the presumption that the information in the proof of service is incorrect.
Plaintiff has the burden to establish the prima facie facts entitling the Court
to assume jurisdiction. Since Plaintiff has not filed an opposition, he fails
to meet his burden.
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Specially Appearing Defendant Deeran
Demanco Anderson’s motion to quash
service of summons and complaint.
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 