  Case Number:  21STCV36914    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
On October 6, 2021, Plaintiffs
Randy Bronson, Ricky Bronson, Robby Bronson, and Joy Bronson filed this action
alleging that decedent Ronald Bronson developed mesothelioma from exposure to Defendant
CalPortland Company’s products.  
On September 11, 2023,
Defendant filed a motion for summary judgement or summary adjudication in the
alternative arguing Plaintiffs cannot prove exposure to Defendant’s Colton gun plastic
cement.
A.        Objections
Defendant’s Objection
Nos. 1, 2, 3:  The court did not rely on
this evidence.
B.        Summary Judgment
A
defendant seeking summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary
element of the plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no
hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that requires the process of
trial.”
 (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant
may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff
following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at
p. 855.)
 A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell
v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s
deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a product
manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden if the
plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v.
John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’” (Id.
at p. 1440.)
Defendant argues Plaintiffs
cannot establish that Ronald Bronson worked with or around Defendant’s asbestos-containing
products during his employment from 1963 through the 1990s.  (Motion at p. 5.)  In interrogatory responses, Plaintiffs stated
Ronald Bronson was exposed to Colton gun plastic cement.  (Motion at p. 7.)  Colton gun plastic cement contained asbestos;
Colton plastic cement did not. 
(Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 2, 4.) 
Colton gun plastic cement came in a brown sack with “GUN” on the front
of the sack.  (UMF 6.)  
Defendant relies on the deposition
testimony of Plaintiffs Randy and Ricky Bronson.  Ricky Bronson testified he worked with his
father at various job sites, they used Riverside cement at those sites, they
also used Colton plastic cement that came out of bags that said “Colton,” and
the Riverside cement came in a brown bag with green writing that had
“Riverside” written on it.  He could not
remember if the Colton plastic cement bags had anything else on them other than
“Colton.”  (Levonyan Decl., Ex. K at pp. 270,
273, 296, 307; Ex. L at pp. 474, 477-478, 488, 505-506.)  
Randy Bronson also worked
with his father, saw Riverside gun cement being used, saw Colton cement being
used but does not remember if it was Colton gun cement, does not know if his
father worked around any Colton products, and remembers seeing Colton bags at
work sites but does not remember if anything else was printed on the bags.
Assuming this evidence
was sufficient to shift the burden, Plaintiffs showed the existence of disputed
facts by filing additional pages from Ricky Bronson’s deposition.  Ricky Bronson testified he saw Ronald Bronson
working with or around both Riverside and Colton gun cement, that the gun
cement came in green bags, and he saw green bags.  (Eyerly Decl., Ex. 1 at pp. 41-44; Ex. 2 at
pp. 528.)  This evidence could allow a
jury to conclude that Defendant worked with or around Colton gun plastic
cement.  Whether this testimony is
inconsistent with other parts of his testimony and therefore should be
discredited, as Defendant argues, is an issue for the jury.
The motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.
C.        Summary Adjudication
Defendant moves for
summary adjudication of the punitive damages claim.  When the motion targets a request for punitive
damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing evidentiary
standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation
to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or summary
adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher
evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24
Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary
judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive damages is
proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be
clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ” ’.  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’  [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A
plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing agent’ requirement ‘through evidence
showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure
of management decision making that permits an inference that the information in
fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own employees
from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger to users,
and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer v.
John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.) 
Defendant propounded a special
interrogatory and request for production asking for all facts and documents
supporting Plaintiffs’ punitive damages claim.  (Motion at 10; UMF 49.)  Plaintiffs responded that Ronald Bronson used asbestos-containing
Colton Gun Plastic Cement from 1959 until 1973; Defendant knew or should have
known that asbestos-containing products were hazardous to health based on
medical and scientific literation; and Defendant did not give warnings to the
public.  (Levonyan Decl., Ex. H. at pp.
14-17.)  This response is conclusory and
does not cite facts showing Defendant had information at the management level
about the dangers of asbestos in its gun plastic cement and made a willful and
conscious decision to disregard the safety of others.  Thus, Defendants shifted the burden. 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that knowledge of the general dangers of asbestos existed before 1950,
and it was widely accepted in medical and scientific literature that asbestos
could cause cancer.  (Opposition at p.
5.)  But Plaintiffs did not show evidence
of management decisions or policies to disregard the danger or to take action
to protect employees but not to warn customers or the public.  Thus, Plaintiffs did not cite evidence of
Defendant’s despicable conduct and conscious disregard for the safety of
others.
Because Plaintiffs did
not show the existence of disputed issues regarding punitive damages, the
motion for summary adjudication of the punitive damages claim is GRANTED. 
The motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.  The motion for
summary adjudication is GRANTED.
The moving party is to
give notice.