 Case Number:  BC454901    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LEONARD W. BORISOFF,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
THE PULLMAN GROUP, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  BC454901
  Hearing Date:  March 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for reconsideration




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 10, 2011, plaintiff
Leonard W. Borisoff (“Borisoff”), a composer, filed a complaint against
defendants the Pullman Group, LLC; Wertheim, LLC; David Pullman; and Broadcast
Music, Inc. Defendants prevailed in the compelled arbitration proceeding and
were awarded ownership of Borisoff’s past and future royalties and attorney
fees of $67,866.13. On October 3, 2013, Defendants petitioned the Court to
confirm the award, which the Court did on January 15, 2014, with a final
judgment entered on August 27, 2014. Borisoff appealed the judgment. The Court
of Appeal reversed the judgment. On February 4, 2021, the Currency Corp
(“Plaintiff”) was substituted as Borisoff’s successor in interest after he
passed away in 2020.
            On February 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint, alleging (1) fraud, (2) intentional
interference with contract, and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants
Pullman Group, David Pullman, and Wertheim LLC. Plaintiff has since dismissed
the first two causes of action, leaving only declaratory relief.       
On February 14, 2024, the Court denied
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, finding that there was a present
controversy notwithstanding the appellate finding that the contracts at issue
were invalid. This Court held that although the Court of Appeal’s opinion is
the law of the case, there has been no final judgment to that effect, and thus
the controversy is ongoing. In fact, given that both parties acknowledge the
contracts are void, the Court suggested that judgment be entered in favor of
Plaintiff.  
On February 26, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant motion for reconsideration of the Court’s summary judgment order.
Plaintiff filed its opposition on March 7, 2024. Defendants filed their reply
on March 13, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application
to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall
state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).) 
Additionally, “the trial court retains the
inherent authority to change its decision at any time prior to the entry of
judgment.” (Darling v. Kritt (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1148, 1156.) “[S]ection
1008 does not govern the court's ability, on its own motion, to reevaluate
its own interim rulings.” (Ibid.) “[T]he only requirement of the court
is that it exercise ‘due consideration’ before modifying, amending, or revoking
its prior orders.” (Id. at p. 1157.)
 
 
DISCUSSION 
I.
Mootness 
Defendants bring this motion on grounds of
new or different facts—specifically, Pullman’s declaration disavowing any right
to Borisoff’s royalties. Defendants reiterate, as they have on previous
motions, that there is no need for a judicial declaration if Defendants already
admit that the contracts cannot be enforced and they cannot claim the royalties.

However, Defendants’ concession merely
confirms that judgment should be rendered in Plaintiff’s favor. There is no
authority for the proposition that a defendant in a declaratory relief action
can obtain summary judgment on the eve of trial by a last-minute concession. To
the extent Defendants now concede that Plaintiff’s position is correct, they
are simply admitting that Plaintiff is entitled to a declaratory judgment. 
II.
Law of the Case
            “[T]he decision of an appellate
court, stating a rule of law necessary to the decision of the case,
conclusively establishes that rule and makes it determinative of the rights of
the same parties in any subsequent retrial or appeal in the same case.” (Sargon
Enterprises, Inc. v. University of Southern California (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 1495, 1505.) “Although the doctrine does not apply to points of law
that might have been determined, but were not decided in the prior appeal, the
doctrine does extend to questions that were implicitly determined because they
were essential to the prior decision.” (Ibid.) 
            While the prior appellate decisions
(Borisoff I and Borisoff II) determined that there was no valid
arbitration agreement because the contracts were void generally, they did not
make any findings on Defendants’ rights to Borisoff’s royalties. Defendants’
entitlement to the royalties was neither decided in the prior appeals nor
implicitly determined, because such a determination was not necessary to
resolve the arbitration issue. While the appellate decisions require this Court
to find the contracts void, those decisions do not, in and of themselves,
constitute judgments regarding Defendants’ right to the royalties. 
            Defendants’ cited case does not
change this. Morohoshi v. Pacific Home (2004) 34 Cal.4th 482 merely
reiterates the law of the case doctrine, which is undisputed here. The Court
agrees with Morohoshi and with Defendants that Court of Appeal decisions
are final and binding on issues being litigated in the same case. This is
precisely why the Court is bound to find that the subject contracts are illegal
and, consequently, that Defendants have no right to Borisoff’s royalties. Morohoshi
does not stand for the proposition that a Court of Appeal opinion serves as a
judgment such that it moots subsequent proceedings in the trial court. Borisoff
I and II affirmed this Court’s orders regarding arbitration and
attorneys’ fee awards. Those decisions did not conclude the dispute regarding
Defendants’ entitlement to the royalties and do not serve as final judgments in
the case. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
 