 Case Number:  22STCV41020    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LUIS DIAZ ROJAS, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV41020
  Hearing Date:  March 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motions to compel further
  responses   




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 30, 2022, Plaintiff Jane
Doe filed this action against Defendant Luis Diaz Rojas stemming from an
alleged sexual assault. 
            On January 31, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant two motions to compel further responses to special interrogatories
and requests for production. Plaintiff filed her opposition on March 7, 2024.
Defendant filed his reply on March 13, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. (See Koorenny Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Special Interrogatories 
An answer to an interrogatory must be as
complete and straightforward as possible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).) A
party “is entitled to demand answers to its interrogatories, as a matter of
right . . . [and] the burden of justifying any objection and failure to
respond remains at all times with the party resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams
v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) 
In his separate statement, Defendant sets
forth the substance of each interrogatory, Plaintiff’s response thereto, and
the reasons for compelling a further response. Plaintiff has not filed a
responsive separate statement addressing Defendant’s contentions as to each
interrogatory, but her opposition specifies several interrogatories that she
believes are problematic. The Court addresses these interrogatories below. The
remaining interrogatories must be answered because Plaintiff does not contest
them. 
a. SROG Nos. 1-4
SROG Nos. 1 and 2 ask Plaintiff to state
all of the services she provided to Defendant with and without pay. SROG Nos. 3
and 4 ask Plaintiff to state the dates and times she provided services to
Defendant with and without pay. In response, Plaintiff asserted various
boilerplate objections that she does not attempt to substantiate in her
opposition, except the objection that the requests are duplicative and
burdensome. Plaintiff argues that the requests are duplicative of SROG Nos.
7-10 and 12-25. 
A review of those SROGs shows that they seek
different information. The requests are not duplicative of each other merely
because they involve some overlapping information. For example, Defendant is
entitled to compare the dates that Plaintiff contends she provided services to
Defendant with the dates that she contends Defendant coerced her to have sex or
intimidated her. Plaintiff may respond with the same date for both questions,
but that does not make the requests duplicative. Plaintiff does not demonstrate
how the requests are burdensome. Therefore, further responses are required for
SROG Nos. 1-4. 
b. SROG No. 6
Plaintiff argues that SROG No. 6 goes
against the Court’s prior order that Plaintiff does not have to disclose
information on her other “customers.” Defendant does not pursue SROG No. 6, as
his separate statement makes no mention of it. 
c. SROG No. 11
SROG No. 11 asks Plaintiff to state the
total amount of money that Defendant paid her. In response, Plaintiff
interposed the exact same boilerplate objections as the other requests. While
Plaintiff now argues that the request is too vague to be answered, she did not
assert that objection in her response. Plaintiff cannot interpose a new
objection in opposition to a motion to compel. In any case, the request is not
vague. Therefore, a further response is required for SROG No. 11.  
d. SROG No. 14
SROG No. 14 asks Plaintiff to state how
Defendant acted fraudulently towards or with respect to her, and to state the
date, time, and place of such an occurrence. Plaintiff asserted the same
boilerplate objections and now interposes a new vagueness objection. The request
is not vague, as it pertains to Plaintiff’s own allegation that Defendant acted
fraudulently. 
Plaintiff also argues that she has already
provided information about Defendant’s behavior. However, the fact that
Plaintiff has provided other information does not absolve her from answering
this particular request. Plaintiff cannot refuse to respond just because she
believes that Defendant possesses enough information. Therefore, a further
response is required for SROG No. 14. 
II.
Requests for Production
The party seeking production of documents
bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify
any objections. (Ibid.) 
In his separate statement, Defendant sets
forth the substance of each request, Plaintiff’s response thereto, and the
reasons for compelling a further response. Plaintiff has not filed a responsive
separate statement addressing Defendant’s contentions as to each request, but
her opposition specifies several requests that she believes are problematic.
The Court addresses these requests below. The remaining requests must be
answered because Plaintiff does not contest them. 
a. RFP Nos. 43-44
Plaintiff argues that RFP Nos. 43 and 44 seek
information regarding “sites” and “customers” in violation of the Court’s
order. RFP No. 43 seeks all advertisements Plaintiff posted or published for
her services as a sex worker. Defendant does not pursue RFP No. 44. The Court
never precluded Defendant from seeking information on “sites.” Rather, the
order stated that disclosure of information on sites, photos, videos, and names
were subject to a protective order. (Jan. 19 2024 Order re Protective Order.)
The information must still be disclosed, albeit under a protective order
restricting its use to the instant litigation. Therefore, a further response is
required for RFP No. 43 once a protective order has been signed by the court.
b. RFP No. 45
RFP No. 45 seeks all documents reflecting
Plaintiff’s home address from 2019 to present. Defendant’s separate statement
argues that the information is probative to Plaintiff’s claims that she is a
sex worker whom Defendant hired and that Plaintiff’s contact information is
relevant because she is self-represented. Defendant fails to explain how
Plaintiff’s home address is relevant to her claims, nor does Defendant
demonstrate that Plaintiff’s home address is required for communicating with
her. Defendant has clearly been able to communicate with and serve documents on
Plaintiff throughout this litigation without obtaining her home address.
Because Defendant has failed to articulate good cause, no further response is
warranted for RFP No. 45. 
c. RFP No. 46
Plaintiff argues that RFP No. 46 violates
the Court’s order prohibiting disclosure about Plaintiff’s “customers.”
Defendant’s motion does not pursue RFP No. 46.
d. RFP No. 54
RFP No. 54 seeks identifying information
on Plaintiff’s friend as alleged in paragraph 9 of the complaint. Paragraph 9
alleges that “[w]hen Defendant Rojas learned about Plaintiff Jane’s friend who
she believed was being abused, Defendant Rojas utilized this knowledge to
manipulate Plaintiff into submission.” (Compl. ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff argues that this request
violates the order regarding “customers.” However, the request asks for
information about Plaintiff’s friend, not customer. “The disclosure of the
names and addresses of potential witnesses is a routine and essential part
of pretrial discovery.” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1249-50.) Therefore, a further response is required for RFP No. 54. 
e. RFP Nos. 55-56
RFP No. 55 seeks documents reflecting
Plaintiff’s cellphone numbers from 2019 to present. RFP No. 56 seeks documents
reflecting the name and address of the cellphone carriers or companies that
Plaintiff utilized from 2019 to present. Communications between Plaintiff and
Defendant are pertinent to the lawsuit, but that only demonstrates good cause
for the phone numbers Plaintiff used to communicate with Defendant. Defendant has
not articulated good cause for all of Plaintiff’s phone numbers from
2019 to present. Therefore, further responses are required for RFP Nos. 55 and
56, limited to phone numbers and carriers that Plaintiff used to communicate with
Defendant.    
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED in part as set forth above. Plaintiff shall
provide further responses within 15 days of this order. Sanctions are denied as
the parties acted with substantial justification. 
 