 Case Number:  23STCV10045    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
WEATHER
  GROUP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; and Entertainment Studios
  Networks, Inc., a California Corporation
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
MCDONALD’S
  USA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:
  23STCV10045  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action Filed: 05/04/2023  
Trial Date: None Set  



 
Hearing Date: Thursday,
June 13, 2024
Moving Party: Defendant
McDonald’s USA, LLC
Responding
Party: N/A – Unopposed.  
 
Name of Motion: Defendant McDonald’s USA, LLC’s Motion
to Seal 
 
Recommendation:

            The Court considered the moving
papers. Defendant McDonald’s USA, LLC’s Motion to Seal is DENIED.
 

 
Background
            Weather Group, LLC and Entertainment
Studios Networks, Inc. (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint on May 4,
2023 against McDonald’s USA, LLC, (Defendant) alleging a single cause of action
for Fraud — False Promise (Civ. Code § 1711).
 
            The Complaint alleges the following:
Prominent American corporations promised to take an active role in remedying
racial injustice after George Floyd’s murder ignited nationwide protests. (Complaint,
¶ 1.) Defendant only pledged $1 million despite being one of the largest public
corporations in America. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs are part of a
conglomerate of related media companies (“Allen Media Group” or “AMG), all
owned by Byron Allen, an African American entrepreneur. (Id. at ¶ 4.) AMG
is by far the largest African American-owned media company in the country, with
Plaintiffs representing over 90 percent of that category. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Allen
created the Black Owned Media Matters movement after the George Floyd murder to
address racial discrimination and systemic racism in the media. (Id. at ¶
5.) 
 
            AMG informed Defendant in March 2021
that AMG had been victims of racial discrimination in contracting in violation
of 42 U.S.C. § 1981. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
announced its “Four-Year Plan” in May 2021 to deflect from these serious
allegations. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant’s
plan included a commitment to increase its spending with Black Owned Media from
two to five percent by 2024. (Id.) 
 
            Plaintiffs allege that in reliance
on Defendant’s commitment, Plaintiffs spent considerable time and effort to put
together a proposal for Defendant to advertise across their portfolio. (Id.
at ¶ 9.) Defendant rebuffed Plaintiffs and proposed to spend only a tiny
fraction of its advertising budget on Plaintiffs’ properties. (Id. at ¶
10.) Defendant’s allocation left it well short of its public commitment. (Id.)
 In 2021 and afterwards, Defendant was
not spending anywhere close to two percent of its national advertising budget
on Black Owned Media under any definition. (Id. at 12.) Plaintiffs then
filed suit.
 
            Now the motion before the Court is Defendant
McDonald’s USA, LLC’s Motion to Seal (the Motion). The Motion is unopposed. The
Court notes that the documents subject to this Motion are documents belonging
to Defense counsel Hueston Hennigan, LLP.
 
Discussion 
 
Legal Standard
            The governing rule here is Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d) which states “that the court may order that a
record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: 
(1)  
There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2)  
The overriding interest supports
sealing the record;
(3)  
A substantial probability exists
that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)  
The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and
(5)  
No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.”
 
 
Analysis
            California law recognizes a
constitutional right of access to court proceedings and court documents. (In
Re Marriage of Tamir (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 1068, 1078. Also see McNair
v. NCAA (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 25, 31.) This is because the
public has an interest in observing and assessing the performance of its public
judicial system in all civil cases and that interest strongly supports a
general right of access in ordinary civil cases. (In Re Marriage of Tamir,
supra, at 31.)
 
            Accordingly, the first step to seal
records within a civil case is for Defendant to present an interest that
overcomes the right of public access. Here, it is not the client seeking for
documents to be sealed, but Defense counsel. Defense counsel asserts that the
interest is the confidentiality of its negotiated and discounted billing rates
that it charges its client – McDonald’s USA, LLC – for the work on this matter.
The documents that counsel would like sealed contain references to its special
billing rates for its client. Defense counsel argues that if the documents were
not sealed, counsel would be prejudiced and could be placed “at a disadvantage
in the future.” (Moving Papers, 2:8-9.) 
 
            The Court declines to seal these
documents. First, it is unclear as to how Defense counsel may be placed at a
disadvantage in the future. Second, the billing rates of a law firm are not
sufficient to overcome the presumed right to access to court proceedings for
the public. This right is based in the First Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States. Although this presumption is not absolute and can be
overcome upon a proper showing (McNair, supra, at 31), Defense counsel
has not made such a showing. Therefore, the Motion is denied.       
            
Conclusion
            Accordingly, Defendant McDonald’s
USA, LLC’s Motion to Seal is DENIED.
 
            
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated: Thursday, June
13, 2024
 
 
 
_______________________
Mel
Red Recana
Judge
of the Superior Court
 