 Case Number:  23SMCV03220    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Shafner v.
Zackery, Case No. 23SMCV03220
Hearing date
October 19, 2023 – continued to October 24, 2023
Defendant
Zackery’s Motion for Protective Order and Motion for Bifurcation 
 
Plaintiff Shafner alleges
his business partner defendant Zackery misappropriated partnership funds for
personal use. Zackery seeks a protective order and bifurcation with phase one
addressing whether the parties agreed to a 50/50 split of interests and whether
Zackery embezzled funds. Phase two would address remaining liability issues and
damages, including punitive damages. 
 
Bifurcation is
allowed when “the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy
and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby.” Cal. Code
of Civ. Proc. §598. Bifurcation will generally be denied when the issues in the
proposed phases of trial are interrelated, sharing common questions of law and
fact. Downey Savings & Loan Ass’n. v. Ohio Casualty Ins. Co. (1987)
189 Cal.App.3d 1072, 1086. 
 
Zackery has not
shown bifurcation would promote economy, efficiency or the ends of justice. The
questions Zackery proposes for phase one will require the same evidence as
damages issues to be decided at phase two. The two proposed phases are
interrelated, sharing several questions of fact and requiring presentation of
similar evidence. 
 
Shafner cannot
prove Zackery’s liability under any of his causes of action without extensive discovery
into Zackery’s finances. The gravamen of Shafner’s claims is that Zackery stole
partnership funds for separate business endeavors and/or personal expenses for
years. This can only be proved with Zackery’s personal financial records to
establish the amounts that left the partnership and came into Zackery’s
possession. The second phase would rely on the same evidence, since, if Shafner
prevails, damages would be calculated based on the amount of funds Zackery improperly
obtained. 
 
Liability and
damages are intertwined; both require evidence regarding misappropriation of funds,
and if so, how much. Bifurcation would create a risk of duplicative trials and repetition
of evidence. 
 
In reply, Zackery
argues the “threshold issues” proposed for phase one would not require evidence
from his personal financial records. He argues the first threshold issue –
whether a 50/50 partnership existed— can be resolved without financial
discovery. The court disagrees. Financial records from before the alleged
embezzlement began, for example, will show whether funds from the business were
split 50/50 between Shafner and Zackery, either bolstering or refuting
Shafner’s claim regarding the partnership’s terms. Financial records after the
alleged embezzlement would also be relevant, potentially showing Zackery
attempted to create the appearance of a 50/50 split while misappropriating
funds, or, if he did not do so, supporting Zackery’s defense that parties never
intended an even split of partnership interests.  
 
As to the second
threshold issue, financial evidence is relevant to prove or disprove Shafner’s
embezzlement claims. To prevail, Shafner will need to show Zackery diverted
partnership funds and the amounts he took were more than permitted under the
partnership agreement. This will require a detailed inquiry into Zackery’s
finances and presentation of relevant documents or records. Bifurcation would
require that presentation to be done twice, which would not promote economy or
efficiency. DENIED. 
 
Zackery also
requests a protective order against financial discovery until phase one of the
trial is completed. Since the matter is not bifurcated, there will be no “phase
one,” and no need for a protective order. DENIED. 