

Hearing Date:             November 15, 2024
Case Name:                 In the Matter of J.G.
Wentworth Originations, LLC
Case
No.:                    24STCP02991
Motion:                       Transfer
of Structured Settlement Payment Rights
Moving
Party:             Petitioner J.G.
Wentworth Originations, LLC

Responding Party:      Unopposed 


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Court will inquire of
the transferor/payee regarding the transaction. The Court believes it will be
in his best interest to receive independent financial and legal advice.
 

 
On September 18, 2024, J.G.
Wentworth Originations, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed this Petition for Approval for
Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights (“Petition”) pursuant to
California Insurance Code Section 10134 et seq.
 
The Petition alleges
transferor/payee Felipe Curiel (“Payee” or “Transferor”) has agreed to sell the
period sum payments he received in a settlement agreement on a personal injury
claim to Petitioner. (Pet., ¶¶ 3-4, 7, Ex. A.) Specifically, Payee Curiel
entered into a Structured Settlement Annuity Contract with MetLife Life
Insurance Company that provides for periodic payments of $313.95 monthly,
beginning on November 15, 2024 and ending on July 15, 2041. (Pet., ¶¶ 3-5 and
Exh. C; Curiel Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Payee Curiel has made three prior
transfers of payment rights:
 
Through the Tuscaloosa County,
Alabama Superior Court on August 23, 2021, transferring monthly payment
portions of $200.00 from September 2021 through August 2041 in exchange for
$15,500.00 to the same Petitioner, J.G. Wentworth (Case No. CV-2021-900610);
 
Through the Tuscaloosa County,
Alabama Superior Court on July 27, 2022, transferring monthly payment portions
of $116.52 from February 2023 through August 2041 in exchange for $8,500.00, to
the same Petitioner, J.G. Wentworth (Case No. CV-2022-900479); and
 
Through the Tuscaloosa County,
Alabama Superior Court on December 28, 2022, transferring monthly payment
portions of $306.32 from February 2023 through August 2041 in exchange for
$27,819.32, to a different Payee, Novation Funding, LLC (Case No. CV-2022-900924).
 
(Curiel Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
The proposed Transfer Agreement in
the instant case seeks to transfer $63,103.95 in future payments to Petitioner
in exchange for $23,623.83 to Payee Curiel at an ADR of 15.23 percent. Payee’s
current structured settlement has a present value of $43,426, utilizing the IRS
value for annual discount rate of 4.8%.
 
Legal Standard
 
“[T]o ensure that a transfer of a structured settlement payment
has no adverse tax impact on any of the persons involved in a factoring
transaction, in January 2002, Congress amended the Internal Revenue Code by
adopting section 5891 to expressly sanction a tax-free transfer of structured
settlement payments.” (321 Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1059, 1065.)“In California, the court approval process
is governed by the Structured Settlement Transfer Act, (hereinafter SSTA),
which requires: (1) disclosures to the transferor of the structured settlement
payment rights, (2) notice to the Attorney General, and (3) court approval.” (Id.)
“The court-approval process requires the factoring company to file a petition
in the county in which the transferor resides for approval of the transfer,
attaching copies of the petition, the transfer agreement, the disclosure form,
the annuity contract, any qualified assignment agreement and the structured
settlement agreement, a list of the names and ages of the transferor’s
dependents, notice of the court hearing date, and notice of a right to
respond.” (Id. at p. 1066.)
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner contends the terms of
the proposed California Purchase Contract (“Transfer Agreement”) between Payee Curiel
and Petitioner is fair and reasonable. As noted above, Petitioner and Payee
seek to transfer future payments of $63,103.95 for an immediate lump-sum
payment of $23,623.83. (Pet., Exh. A.) Petitioner seeks to purchase Payee’s
right to future payments for approximately 55% of their current value
($23,623.83 divided by $43,426.30).
 
Petitioner has provided the
proposed Purchase Agreement and disclosure form and the California Disclosure
Statement, both signed by Payee. (Petn., Exs. A-B.) Petitioner also submitted a
Verification of Benefits from the Annuity Issuer, dated September 18, 2024,
confirming the terms of the annuity. (Id., Ex. C.) Payee attests he
waived independent professional representation and advice and authenticates a
signed written waiver of same. (Id., Ex. E.) Petitioner also provided a
copy of the underlying settlement agreement. (Id., Ex. D.)  The Court will inquire of Payee why he has
elected not to obtain independent – and substantially free – financial
expertise on this matter.
 
            Payee
declares that he is 32 years old, not married, and has no minor children. He is
employed full time earning $4,400 per month.  (Curiel Decl., ¶ 8.) He states he is currently
experiencing financial hardship, but does not describe the nature of the
hardship. Specifically, he states that his student loans are placing a “strain
on [his] budget” and that he needs “relief from the stress of managing multiple
loans.” (Ibid.) He does not state what the outstanding loan balance is,
his monthly payments, the interest rate he is paying, and whether he qualifies
for any of the many deferral and forgiveness programs that have been created
for student loans in recent years.  He
intends to use funds from the proposed transfer to “eliminate or significantly
reduce [his] monthly payments” to “set [him] on a path to becoming debt-free
sooner.” (Id., ¶ 11.) He offers no details on what that means.
 
Pursuant to Insurance Code Section
10139.5(b), “When determining whether the proposed transfer should be approved,
including whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee's best
interest, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's
dependents, the court shall consider the totality of the circumstances,
including, but not limited to, all of the following:
 
(1) The reasonable
preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking
into account the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent
maturity level.
 
(2) The stated
purpose of the transfer.
 
(3) The payee’s
financial and economic situation.
 
(4) The terms of
the transaction, including whether the payee is transferring monthly or lump
sum payments or all or a portion of his or her future payments.
 
(5) Whether, when
the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject
of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the future medical care and
treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained by the payee in the incident
that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee still needs those
future payments to pay for that future care and treatment.
 
(6) Whether, when
the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject
of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the necessary living
expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the future structured
settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses.
 
(7) Whether the
payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require future
medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in
connection with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether
the payee lacks other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those
future medical expenses.
 
(8) Whether the
payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured
settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient
to meet the payee's future financial obligations for maintenance and support of
the payee's dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee's
child support obligations, if any. The payee shall disclose to the transferee
and the court his or her court-ordered child support or maintenance obligations
for the court's consideration.
 
(9) Whether the
financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate applied to
determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs of the
transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the transaction,
the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the payee's stated
objectives, are fair and reasonable.
 
(10) Whether the
payee completed previous transactions involving the payee's structured
settlement payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and
whether the payee was satisfied with any previous transaction.
(11) Whether the
transferee attempted previous transactions involving the payee's structured
settlement payments that were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior
to a decision on the merits, within the past five years.
 
(12) Whether, to
the best of the transferee’s knowledge after making inquiry with the payee, the
payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions with
another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or which
were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past
five years.
 
(13) Whether the
payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship
situation.
 
(14) Whether the
payee received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction.
The court may deny or defer ruling on the petition for approval of a transfer
of structured settlement payment rights if the court believes that the payee does
not fully understand the proposed transaction and that independent legal or
financial advice regarding the transaction should be obtained by the payee.
 
(15) Any other
factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested party
calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines
should be considered in reviewing the transfer.”
 
(Ins. Code, § 10139.5(b).)
 
The Court cannot conclude on the
information provided that the proposed Transfer Agreement is fair and
reasonable. The payee is an adult in his thirties who suffers from no apparent
incapacity. He waived legal and financial advice, and he has completed several
similar transactions over the prior few years. He ostensibly understands these
transactions’ financial import and is satisfied with their results. No prior
transfer has been denied, dismissed, or withdrawn. (Curiel Decl., ¶ 10.) 
 
Payee will use the funds to reduce
a different loan, but offers no information on the interest rate of the student
loan.  The appropriate comparison is set
forth in the disclosure statement: If the Payee borrowed $23,623 and paid that
loan back in installments with each of the payments he now seeks to transfer to
Petitioner, the equivalent interest rate Payee would pay is 15.23% per year.  In effect he is trading a student loan payment
of a certain interest rate that he has not disclosed, for a loan with an
interest rate of over 15%. Perhaps this is necessary. But the Court is
concerned that Payee has not received sufficient independent advice to make a
decision that is in his financial interest. 
 
Based on the foregoing concerns, the
Court will inquire of the Payee.  The Court
will specifically inquire why Payee has waived free financial advice from an
independent source.
 
            