  Case Number:  22STCV02662    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 2:59 p.m. on May 15, 2024..  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on May 15, 2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court
3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral argument will not
be permitted.            This is a lawsuit filed by Plaintiff
general contractor alleging that Defendant subcontractor has breached a
settlement agreement by filing an arbitration demand.
            The court
granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration..
            The
Court entered judgment in favor of Defendant KS Steel Corporation. Defendant now
brings a motion to add proposed joint debtors to the
case management system so that creditor may proceed with the joint debtor
proceedings.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant/Judgment
Creditor KS Steel Corporation’s motion
to add proposed joint debtors to the case management
system so that creditor may proceed with the joint debtor proceedings is GRANTED.
Pursuant
to Civ. Proc. Code, § 990, moving party is to serve the summons (joint debtor)
upon the proposed joint debtors, general partner SLI Management and
limited partner Shangri-La Industries, LLC.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Add
Joint Debtors
Discussion
Defendant brings a motion to add
proposed joint debtors defendants Shangri-La Industries, LLC and SLI Management
Corporation to the court's case management system to enable creditor to pursue
Joint Debtor Proceedings against these potential joint debtors.
In an action against two or more persons who are jointly,
jointly and severally, or severally liable on a contract, the court in
which the action is pending has jurisdiction to proceed against such of the
defendants as are served as if they were the only defendants. 

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 410.70 [bold emphasis added].)
 
When a judgment is recovered against one or more of several
persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as provided
in Section 410.70, those who were not originally served with the summons, and
did not appear in the action, may be summoned to appear before the court in
which such judgment is entered to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment, in the same manner as though they had been originally served with
the summons.
 
     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 989 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
The summons specified in Section 989 shall be issued by the
clerk upon presentation of the affidavit specified in Section 991. The summons
must describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why
the person should not be bound by it, and must be served in the same manner,
and returnable no later than ninety (90) days after the time specified for the
return of the original summons. It is not necessary to file a new complaint.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 990.)
 
The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintiff, his agent, representative, or attorney, that the judgment, or some
part thereof, remains unsatisfied, and must specify the amount due thereon.
 
     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 991.)
 
Upon such summons, the defendant may answer within the time
specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense which may
have arisen subsequently; or he may deny his liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was recovered, by reason of any defense existing at the
commencement of the action.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 992.)
 
If the defendant, in his answer, denies the judgment, or
sets up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with the
affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute the written allegations in the
case; if he denies his liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the
summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute such written
allegations, subject to the right of the parties to amend their pleadings as in
other cases.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 993 [bold emphasis added].)
 
The issues formed may be tried as in other cases, but when the
defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it must be for not
exceeding the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with
interest thereon.
 
     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 994.)
 
            Here, moving party judgment creditor
did not submit a proposed summons as required by Civ. Proc. Code, § 990.
 
            The Court continued the hearing on
the motion to add proposed joint debtors to this date. Defendant was ordered to submit a proposed
summons in compliance with Civ. Proc. Code, § 990 and to give notice of the
continuance.
 
            Moving party indicates that the
arbitration claims was against the limited partnership only. However, while the
petition to confirm the award was pending, debtor transferred all funds in the
debtor's bank accounts, so the limited partnership assets have all been
usurped. (Declaration of John M. Kalajian, ¶ 2.) Now moving party judgment creditor
want to add the individual partners of the limited partnership as joint debtors
and pursue collection remedies against the joint debtors.
 
Corp. Code § 15904.04 provides:
            
(a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b), all general
partners are liable jointly and severally for all obligations of the
limited partnership unless otherwise agreed by the claimant or provided by law.
 
(b) A person that becomes a general partner of an existing
limited partnership is not personally liable for an obligation of a limited
partnership incurred before the person became a general partner.

     (Corp.
Code § 15904.04 [bold emphasis added].)
 
(a) A limited partner is not liable for any obligation of
a limited partnership unless named as a general partner in the certificate
or, in addition to exercising the rights and powers of a limited partner, the
limited partner participates in the control of the business. If a limited
partner participates in the control of the business without being named as a
general partner, that partner may be held liable as a general partner only to
persons who transact business with the limited partnership with actual knowledge
of that partner’s participation in control and with a reasonable belief, based
upon the limited partner’s conduct, that the partner is a general partner at
the time of the transaction. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
affect the liability of a limited partner to third parties for the limited
partner’s participation in tortious conduct.
 
(b) A limited partner does not participate in the control of the
business within the meaning of subdivision (a) solely by doing, attempting to
do, or having the right or power to do, one or more of the following:
 
(1) Being any of the following:
 
(A) An independent contractor for, an agent or employee of, or
transacting business with, the limited partnership or a general partner of the
limited partnership.
 
(B) An officer, director, or shareholder of a corporate general
partner of the limited partnership.
 
(C) A member, manager, or officer of a limited liability company
that is a general partner of the limited partnership.
 
(D) A limited partner of a partnership that is a general partner
of the limited partnership.
 
(E) A trustee, administrator, executor, custodian, or other
fiduciary or beneficiary of an estate or trust that is a general partner.
 
(F) A trustee, officer, adviser, shareholder, or beneficiary of
a business trust that is a general partner.
 
(2) Consulting with and advising a general partner with respect
to the business of the limited partnership.
 
(3) Acting as surety for the limited partnership or for a
general partner, guaranteeing one or more specific debts of the limited
partnership, providing collateral for the limited partnership or general
partner, borrowing money from the limited partnership or a general partner, or
lending money to the limited partnership or a general partner.
 
(4) Approving or disapproving an amendment to the partnership
agreement.
 
(5) Voting on, proposing, or calling a meeting of the partners.
 
(6) Winding up the partnership pursuant to Section 15908.03.
 
(7) Executing and filing a certificate pursuant to Section
15902.05, a certificate of withdrawal pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision
(a) of Section 15902.04, or a certificate of cancellation of the certificate of
limited partnership pursuant to paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of Section
15902.04.
 
(8) Serving on an audit committee or committee performing the
functions of an audit committee.
 
(9) Serving on a committee of the limited partnership or the
limited partners for the purpose of approving actions of the general partner.
 
(10) Calling, requesting, attending, or participating at any
meeting of the partners or the limited partners.
 
(11) Taking any action required or permitted by law to bring,
pursue, settle, or terminate a derivative action on behalf of the limited
partnership.
 
(12) Serving on the board of directors or a committee of,
consulting with or advising, being or acting as an officer, director,
stockholder, partner, member, manager, agent, or employee of, or being or
acting as a fiduciary for, any person in which the limited partnership has an
interest.
 
(13) Exercising any right or power permitted to limited partners
under this chapter and not specifically enumerated in this subdivision.
 
(c) The enumeration in subdivision (b) does not mean that any
other conduct or the possession or exercise of any other power by a limited
partner constitutes participation by the limited partner in the control of the
business of the limited partnership.

     (Corp.
Code § 15903.03 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Per the
Kaljian Declaration, ¶ 3:
 
3 Creditor subpoenaed
the records of Shangri-La Construction, LP from the contractor's state license
board. The license application submitted to the CSLB by Shangri-La
Construction, LP revealed that Shangri-La Construction, LP was a limited
partnership comprised of a general partner SLI Management Corporation and a
limited partner Shangri-La Industries, LLC. I am informed and believe that all
of these entities are owned and controlled by a single person, to wit, Andrew
Meyers Abdul-Wahab. Creditor seeks to add SLI Management Corporation and a
limited partner Shangri-La Industries, LLC as joint debtors and seeks court
permission to add these entities to the Case Management System. 
 
Creditor sought to
pursue joint debtor proceedings against the general and limited partners of
debtor. Creditor filed its affidavit in support on February 9, 2024, attached
as exhibit A. However, the eFiling clerk rejected Creditor's joint debtor
summons saying, "Reject Reason Other: Non-Party SLI Management
Corporation, must get permission from the courtroom to be added to the case
management system".
 
     (Kaljian
Declaration, ¶ 3; Exh. A.)
 
            On April
14, 2024, moving party filed a copy of the summons on mandatory Judicial
Council Form SUM-120—Summons (Joint Debtor). The Kaljian Declaration sets forth
evidence that general partner SLI Management Corporation is liable, as general
partner, and limited partner Shangri-La Industries, LLC, is potentially liable,
as joint debtors.
            Specifically,
moving party Creditor seeks an Order granting creditor leave to add SLI
Management Corporation and Shangri-La Industries, LLC to the case management
system so that creditor may proceed with the joint debtor proceedings. The
motion is GRANTED. Pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 990, moving party is to serve
the summons (joint debtor) upon the proposed joint debtors, general
partner SLI Management and limited partner Shangri-La Industries, LLC.