 Case Number:  23TRCV02318    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  8  Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: December 5, 2024CASE NUMBER: 23TRCV02318CASE NAME: Cynthia Booze, individually and as Successor-in-Interest to Decedent, Gordy Nnamdi Aniako. v. One Imperial Plaza LP, et al.MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant, One Imperial Plaza LPRESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainant, Super Center Concepts Inc. dba Superior Grocers.TRIAL DATE: Not Set.MOTION:(1) Cross-Defendant, One Imperial Plaza LP’s Motion for Summary AdjudicationTentative Rulings: (1) DENIED. Triable issue raised by One Imperial’s undertaking to be the exclusive provider of parking lot security at the scene of the subject homicide, which conflicts with the indemnification provision borne by SCC.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualThis motion arises out of the original filing of a complaint on July 18, 2023 by Plaintiff, Cynthia Booze, individually and as successor-in-interest to decedent, Gordy Nnamdi Aniako (“Plaintiff”) against Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP, a California corporation, Superior WHSE Grocers Inc., a California corporation, The Right Choice Home Remodeling, Inc., a California corporation, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Wrongful Death; (3) Respondeat Superior Liability; and (4) Negligent Hiring and Retention. Plaintiff’s complaint is based on an incident taking place on January 26, 2023 when Decedent, Gordy Nnamdi Aniako (“Decedent”) allegedly suffered traumatic and fatal injuries while lawfully on the premises of Superior Grocers when he encountered Angel Alexander Ramos (“Assailant”) who shot Decedent three times in the parking lot of the store. (Complaint, ¶¶ 16-18.) Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that at all relevant times, both Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP and Superior Grocers owned, operated, maintained, managed, and/or controlled the subject premises. (Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.)On December 18, 2023, Superior Center Concepts Inc. dba Superior Grocers (“SCC”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP, The Right ChoiceHome Remodeling, Inc., Angel Alexander Ramos, and MOES 1 through 50. Subsequently, on April 11, 2024, SCC filed a Doe Amendment identifying 12 “0” 27 Protective Services, Inc. as MOE 2. The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Express Indemnity; (3) Breach of Contract; (4) Contribution; and (5) Declaratory Relief. Cross-Defendant, 12 0 27 Protective Services, Inc. (“Protective Services”) entered into a Security Guard Services Contract with SCC in March 29, 2018 under which SCC purchased security guard protection services for its properties.Now, Cross-Defendant, One Imperial Plaza LP (“One Imperial”) files a Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Cross-Complainant, Super Center Concepts Inc. dba Superior Grocers’ (“SCC”) Cross-Complaint.B. ProceduralOn September 19, 2024, One Imperial filed this Motion for Summary Adjudication. On November 20, 2024, SCC filed an opposition brief. On November 27, 2024, One Imperial filed a reply brief.II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS:SCC’s Evidentiary Objections to Moving Evidence:Sustain: 1Overrule: n/aThe objection to the reporter’s transcript of the preliminary hearing testimony of Fayetta Taylor in the criminal matter of People v. Ramos (Case No. YA107314) is sustained pursuant to California Evidence Code section 1291(a)(2) and 1292(a)(3).III. ANALYSISA. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)¿As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)B. DiscussionOne Imperial has filed this Motion for Summary Adjudication on the grounds that it should be granted in its favor as to SCC’s fourth cause of action in its Cross-Complaint for Express Indemnity. One Imperial bases its belief on the argument that SCC owes it an immediate defense pursuant to Civil Code section 2778 for claims “embraced by the indemnity” and the duty to defend as described in Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, including payment of defense costs and attorney’s fees.i. One Imperial’s Moving PapersOne Imperial states that it and SCC entered into a lease amendment dated December 23, 2004, to operate the subject grocery store at 11202 Crenshaw Blvd., Inglewood, CA 90303 (“Subject Property”). One Imperial asserts that SCC’s tenancy was subject to an original lease entered into by Romill Properties and Cummings Market, Inc. in 1954 (“Original Lease”). The express language of the Original Lease includes an indemnification clause whereby SCC was required to indemnify One Imperial as follows:22. INDEMNITY OF LESSOR BY LESSEE: [Superior Grocers] hereby covenants and agrees at all times to indemnify and save [One Imperial] and the demised premises harmless from and against any cost, liability, or expense arising out of any claims of any person or person whatsoever by reason of the use or misuse of said demised premises, parking area, or common facilities by [Superior Grocers] . . .(One Imperial’s UMF No. 8.)After the incident giving rise to the Plaintiff’s claim in the overall action, One Imperial contends it tendered its defense to SCC by sending a letter referencing the above portion of the Original Lease Agreement and including a copy of the complaint on October 27, 2023. (OneImperial’s UMF No. 9.) However, on November 9, 2023, SCC responded and denied the duty to defend One Imperial. (One Imperial’s UMF No. 10.)When a party brings a cause of action for Express Indemnity, that “indemnitee seeking to recover on an agreement for indemnification must allege the parties’ contractual relationship, the indemnitee’s performance of that portion of the contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim, the facts showing a loss within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification agreement, and the amount of damages sustained.” (Four Star Electric, Inc. v. F & H Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1380.)Here, One Imperial provides evidence of the parties’ contractual relationship. One Imperial maintains it is the owner of the property located at the Subject Property, and that SCC leased the Subject Property from One Imperial to operate its grocery store. (One Imperial’s UMF Nos. 1-2.) One Imperial also attaches the Original Lease Agreement to its Notice of Lodging (“NOL”) which evidences the above indemnification clause. (NOL, Exhibit D, Original Lease Agreement, ¶ 22.) Lastly, as far as One Imperial’s performance of their portion of the contract giving rise to the indemnification claim, One Imperial includes evidence of the tendered defense letter. (Declaration of Stephen P. Conching (“Conching Decl.”), ¶ 2; NOL, Exhibit E.)Based on the evidence provided by One Imperial, the Court determines that One Imperial has carried its initial burden on summary adjudication.ii. SCC’s Shifted Burden1. Whether Plaintiff’s claims are embraced by the indemnity provision.In opposition, SCC takes the position that Plaintiff’s claims are not “embraced” by the Indemnity Provision in light of the Parties’ expressed intent. Plaintiff’s argument is based on the fact that Plaintiff’s complaint does not allege that the argument between Decedent and Ramos originated in the Superior Grocers store – merely that the combatants “encountered each other inside the store. It was thereafter that the Decedent and Ramos got into an argument in the Shopping Center parking lot, and that the argument escalated into the fatal shooting.Both parties discuss the relevance of Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc.“Parties to a contract . . . may define therein their duties toward one another in the event of a third party claim against one or both arising out of their relationship.” (Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 551 (“Crawford”).) Such contracts may “assign one party, pursuant to the contract’s language, responsibility for the other’s legal defense when a third party claim is made against the latter.” (Ibid. [italics in original].) Thus, “a contractual indemnitor has the obligation, upon proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept and assume the indemnitee’s active defense against claims encompassed by the indemnity provision.” (Id. at p. 555.) Moreover, the duty to defend “arises immediately upon a proper tender of defense by the indemnitee” and “cannot depend on the outcome of” the litigation to be defended. (Id. at p. 558.) Therefore, the duty to defend is owed for those claims which, “at the time of tender, allege facts that would give rise to a duty of indemnity.” (Ibid. [italics in original].) In other words, “where the plaintiff’scomplaint alleges facts embraced by the indemnity agreement, the indemnitor has a duty to defend throughout the underlying tort action unless it can conclusively show by undisputed facts that plaintiff’s action is not covered by the agreement.” (Centex Homes v. R-Help Construction Co., Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 1230, 1237.) Therefore, under Crawford, if Plaintiff in the case at bar alleged facts that SCC’s use or misuse of the demised premises, parking area, or common facilities, SCC would be under a duty to defend One Imperial, unless SCC could conclusively show by undisputed facts that Plaintiff’s action is not covered by the agreement.Thus, the Court must first look to the allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint. Plaintiff alleged that while Decedent was at Superior Grocers, he encountered the Assailant, Ramos, at the store and continued his engagement with Ramos at the Parking Lot of the store. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff states Assailant and Decedent engaged in a heated argument, and Assailant retrieved a gun from his vehicle, and shot Decedent three times on the Subject Premises. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Based on these allegations, SCC asserts that an “encounter” in its grocery store is too remote a connection to constitute “use or misuse” of the parking lot by SCC. SCC analogizes the case at bar to that of Morlin Asset Management LP v. Murachanian (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 184 (“Morlin”). In Morlin, the Court of Appeal for the Second District held that an indemnity clause by which the tenant agreed to indemnify the landlord for claims “arising out of, involving or in connection with” the tenant’s use or occupancy of the tenant’s unit did not apply where the injury to the third party occurred outside of the tenant’s unit, in a common area over which the landlord had exclusive control. (Id. at p. 193.) The accident occurred in the stairwell outside of the tenant’s suite, and the Court of Appeal held that “[t]he connection between the tenant’s use of his suite and the accident in the stairwell over which the tenant had no control is too remote to have been within the contemplation of the parties when they entered into the lease.” (Ibid.)Like in Morlin, SCC asserts that the mere allegation that Decedent and Ramos “encountered” each other inside the Superior Grocers is too remote a connection the Superior Grocers store to constitute “use or misuse” of the parking lot by SCC. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) Notably, the Court of Appeal in Morlin acknowledged that “‘in a remote sense,’ the accident would not have occurred if the tenant had not hired [the cleaning company] to clean the carpets in his dental suite, and in that sense, the accident could be said to arise from the tenant’s use of the suite.” (Morlin, supra, 2 Cal.App.5th at 191 citing Hollander v. Wilson Estate Co. (1931) 214 Cal. 582, 584 [construing the tenant’s agreement to indemnify for claims “ ‘arising…in or about or connected with’” the demised premises; “[i]n a remote sense, of course, the elevator [which dropped to the basement injuring the tenant] is means of ‘connection’ between the street and the demised premises”; but elevator was “owned, controlled, operated and maintained exclusively by the defendant” and “can hardly be supposed to have been a subject within the scope of the lease”].) However, the Morlin Court emphasized that “[t]o say the accident would not have occurred if the tenant had not hired [the carpet cleaning company] to clean the carpets does not mean the standard indemnity clause applies.” (Morlin, supra, 2 Cal.App.5th at 192.) The Court of Appeal in Morlin held “that under the indemnity clause in th[at] case, the injury to a third party that occurred outside the dental suite, in a common area over which the landlords have exclusive control, did not arise out of the tenant's use of the dental suite.” (Id. at 193.)SCC also asserts that like in Morlin, where the staircase was a common area that the landlord possessed exclusive control over, the parking lot was also under exclusive control of One Imperial. To evidence this, SCC cites portions of the Sixth Amended Lease Agreement to argue that it was One Imperial’s role as the sole entity responsible for securing the parking lot, including:“5.1 Expenses. Commencing on the Rent Commencement Date, Lessee shall pay to Lessor, as Additional Rent, Lessee's proportionate share of the CAM Expenses, Real Property Taxes and Insurance, all as hereinafter more particularly defined and described. Lessee's proportionate share for any calendar year during the Lease Term shall be that percentage that the total square footage of the Premises bears to the total square footage of the leasable buildings within the Shopping Center.5.2 Definition of Expenses. It is understood and agreed that the term ‘CAM Expenses’ shall be construed to include but not be limited to all sums expended by Lessor in connection with the common areas (the ‘Areas’) for all maintenance and repair, replacement, resurfacing, painting, restriping, cleaning, . . ., security or policing, fire protection or alarm systems, service contracts to regularly inspect, service and/or maintain the Areas or any components thereof[.]”(SCC’s UMF No. 20.)“[5.12(b)] Lessee’s share of the costs for common area security and utility expenses (which include but are not limited to water, sewer and electricity) shall remain capped, in the aggregate, for two (2) years following the Rent Commencement Date at twenty cents ($0.20) per square foot. Upon the expiration of such two (2) year period, the common area security costs payable by Lessee shall be Lessee’s pro rata share of the amount payable by Lessor for common area security costs under the ‘Security Contract,’ which is hereby defined as an agreement between Lessor and the security company submitting the lowest bid in response to Lessor’s request for bids. Lessor shall not enter into a Security Contract unless Lessor has obtained bids from not less than three (3) security companies, including not less than one such company nominated by Lessee. The level of service to be provided under the Security Contract shall be similar to the level of common area security service provided as of the date of this Sixth Amendment. Lessee shall not nominate any security company that does not have a commercially reasonable level of credentials and staff experience under conditions similar to those prevailing at the Shopping Center. Lessee’s share of the costs for common area security shall not increase more than once in every three (3) years.”(SCC’s UMF No. 21.)Based on the above, SCC asserts that because One Imperial was the exclusive entity with responsibility over securing the parking lot, and the gravamen of Plaintiff’s complaint isnegligent security, it is difficult to understand how the alleged incident can be characterized out of SCC’s “use of misuse” of the premises or parking lot, especially when the fatal altercation is alleged to have arisen in the parking lot. Further, SCC’s UMF 23 states that notwithstanding the language of the indemnification language, One Imperial in fact provided private security services for the parking lot at all material times, UMF 25 states that One Imperial was obligated under the lease to provide security services for the parking lot, and thus raises the inference that a triable issue of fact is created by the conflicting obligations of the parties in one lease provision versus another as to a duty to ensure parking lot security.In One Imperial’s reply brief, it argues that if the only allegation against SCC was that the Decedent and Assailant encountered one another in the grocery store, than Morlin might apply. However, One Imperial states Superior Grocers knew its premises and the areas adjacent thereto were in a high crime area and that criminal attacks were likely to be perpetrated on invitees such as the Decedent unless it took steps to provide proper security and that it failed to take those necessary steps. (Complaint, ¶ 28-29, 40.) It is further alleged that Superior Grocers was aware of the dangerous condition on its premises, i.e., the Assailant, and failed to warn the Decedent. (Complaint, ¶ 33-35, 40.) The allegations cited to by One Imperial are not specifically alleged against SCC, but instead, that each of them are alleged against “Defendants” generally, including both One Imperial and SCC. Specifically, as to these allegations, One Imperial contends that under Crawford, these alleged facts are sufficient to invoke SCC’s duty to defend as such facts were embraced by the indemnity agreement (i.e., SCC’s “use of misuse” of the premises, parking area, or common facilities.)To support its position, One Imperial cites to two cases where California courts have held that tenants of shopping centers have duties to prevent/deter third party criminal assaults occurring in common area parking lots by responding to events that are unfolding in its presence and undertaking relatively simple and minimally burdensome measures such as summoning help, calling 911, ensuring the security guards patrolling the parking lot are present to prevent an escalating conflict, or preventing two parties who appear to have tension between one another from exiting the premises at the same time. (Citing Morris v. De La Torre (2005) 36 Cal.4th 260, 274-278 (“Morris”); and Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 245 (“Delgado”).)A review of the cases reveal that both cases involved an allegation of duty when it came to assisting their customers who became ill or needed medical attention and that they would be liable if they failed to act. The allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint do not assert this, and this is highlighted by the allegations One Imperial cites to in attempts at supporting this argument. Plaintiff in this case alleged general allegations of “Defendants” failure to provide proper security (Complaint, ¶ 28) and failure to have any procedures governing the inspection, supervision and/or security of the area where the incident occurred (Complaint, ¶ 33.) There are no allegations in the complaint at bar that SCC failed to contact emergency services despite their employees recording and/or witnessing the events. Instead, the complaint alleges One Imperial failed to timely contact police regarding unacceptable activity upon the defined premises. (Complaint, ¶ 27(s).) Moreover, even with this allegation alleged against One Imperial, the Court does not believe that it can be interpreted to mean that based on the allegations in the complaint, SCC should have interpreted that one allegation to mean that its employees, who are notmentioned in the complaint, recorded the video instead of calling emergency services in a timely fashion and that this would invoke their duty to defend based on Crawford.The Court finds that SCC has raised triable issues of material fact as to its duty to defend based on the express indemnification clause. The issue of Express Indemnity cannot be resolved in this Motion for Summary Adjudication because the disputed material facts negate the Court’s ability to render judgment in favor of One Imperial as a matter of law on this issue. Specifically, there are disputed facts as to whether One Imperial’s undertaking to provide parking lot security and contractual duty to do so conflicts with or trumps or is tantamount to a waiver of the indemnification provision requiring SCC as the lessee to indemnify the property owner for a duty undertaken by the property owner.