..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: Not specified
Plaintiff's Name: Not specified
Defendant's Name: Center Street
People-Names: Metz
Company-Names: Center Street Lending VIII SPE, LLC, CCC Information Services, Inc.
Places: California
Dates: 2007
Events: Demurrer, Opposition to Demurrer
Money: Not specified
Intentions: To resolve disputes and determine the validity of the Center Street Parties' demurrer
Facts: The Center Street Parties cite to State of California ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc. (2007) to support their argument
Disputes: The validity of the Center Street Parties' demurrer and the Center Street Parties' argument that the plaintiff must show ongoing conduct to succeed
Acts: The plaintiff filed a complaint, the Center Street Parties filed a demurrer, and the plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer
Agreements: None specified
Laws: California Business and Professions Code ยง 17200, California Unfair Competition Law (UCL)
Case Citations: State of California ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 412
Statutes: California Business and Professions Code ยง 17200, California Unfair Competition Law (UCL)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Center Street Parties
Significant Statements:
- The complaint should be read as containing the judicially noticeable facts, even when the pleading contains an express allegation to the contrary.
- A plaintiff may not avoid a demurrer by pleading facts or positions in an amended complaint that contradict the facts pleaded in the original complaint or by suppressing facts which prove the pleaded facts false.
- A violation under the UCL cannot remedy past conduct that is not ongoing.
- The Center Street Parties' demurrer concerns both the first and second causes of action of the SAC.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge is considering a demurrer filed by the Center Street Parties, which challenges the validity of the plaintiff's complaint. The Center Street Parties argue that the plaintiff must show ongoing conduct in order to succeed under the California Unfair Competition Law (UCL). However, they fail to provide legal authority to support this argument. The judge notes that the complaint should be read as containing the judicially noticeable facts, even when the pleading contains an express allegation to the contrary. The judge is also considering the Center Street Parties' failure to demur to the plaintiff's claim for violation of Business and Professions Code ยง 17200. The judge's tentative ruling is pending further consideration and may be subject to change.
