 Case Number:  22STCV16191    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



NOEL VAN WAGNER, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
WESTLAKE PROPERTIES, INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 22STCV16191 




Hearing Date:


September 4, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR
  APPROVAL OF SETTLEMENT OF LABOR CODE §2698, et seq.
  PRIVATE ATTORNEYS GENERAL ACT (“PAGA”) CLAIMS
 



            
Background
On
May 16, 2022, Plaintiffs Noel Van Wagner and Veronica Andrade (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant Westlake Properties, Inc. 
The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) whistleblower retaliation, (2)
failure to provide meal periods, (3) failure to provide rest periods, (4)
failure to reimburse employment-related expenses, (5) failure to pay overtime
wages, (6) failure to provide accurate wage statements, (7) failure to pay
wages on time, (8) failure to provide employment records, 
(9) unfair
business practices, and (10) violations of the Labor Code under the Private
Attorneys General Act. 
Plaintiffs
indicate that the parties have entered into a PAGA Settlement and Release
Agreement in this action. (Lofton Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. B.) 
Plaintiffs
now move for an order approving the settlement. The motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion
A
superior court must “review and approve any settlement of any civil action
filed pursuant to this part.” (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd.
(s)(2).) 
The
Court notes that though there is no statutory or common law standard for
approval of a PAGA settlement, the standard used for approval of class action
settlements is instructive.
“[A] presumption of fairness exists where: (1) the
settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation and
discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act intelligently;
(3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation; and (4) the percentage of
objectors is small.” ((Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.) The
last factor, small percentage of objectors, is inapplicable to PAGA claims. ((See Arias v. Superior
Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 984-985 [rejecting the argument that
representative actions under PAGA violate the due process rights of “nonparty
aggrieved employees who are not given notice of, and an opportunity to be
heard”].) Additional factors that are useful to consider include the
strength of a plaintiff’s case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely
duration of further litigation, the amount offered in settlement, the extent of
discovery completed, and the experience and views of counsel. ((See Kullar v. Foot
Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 128.)
The Court notes a few defects with the motion for approval of PAGA
settlement. 
First, it appears that the “Covered Period” specified in the PAGA Settlement and Release Agreement (herein, the
“Settlement Agreement”) exceeds the one-year statute of limitations by 38 days.
The statute of limitations for PAGA claims is one year. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 340, subd. (a).) The Complaint in this action was filed on
May 16, 2022. One year prior to this date is May 16, 2021. After the filing of
the LWDA notice, the statute of limitations is tolled for a maximum of 65 days.
(Lab. Code, § 2699.3, subd. (a)(2)(A).) Therefore,
adding an additional 65 days to the limitations period results in a cut-off
date of March 12, 2021. However, the Settlement Agreement defines the “Covered
Period” here as “the period between February
2, 2021 and the Effective Date.” (Lofton
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. B, § I(4), emphasis added.)
Second, the “Covered Employees” are not
defined in accordance with Labor Code section 2699,
subdivision (c)(1), which provides in pertinent part that “[f]or purposes of this part, ‘aggrieved
employee’ means any person who was employed by the alleged violator and
personally suffered each of the violations alleged during the period prescribed
under Section 340 of the Code of Civil Procedure…” The Settlement Agreement here defines “Covered
Employees” as “all current and former non-exempt Spa Relais employees of
Defendant in California at any time between February 2, 2021 and the Effective
Date.” (Lofton Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. B, § I(2).) 
Third, Sections I(18)
and V(41) of the Settlement Agreement refer to “Aggrieved Persons.” However,
“Aggrieved Persons” does not appear to be a defined term in the Settlement
Agreement. In addition, Section I(18) refers to a “PAGA Period,” but this also
does not appear to be a defined term in the Settlement Agreement. 
Fourth, pursuant to Labor Code section 2699,
subdivision (s)(3), “[a] copy of the superior court’s judgment in any civil
action filed pursuant to this part and any other order in that action that
either provides for or denies an award of civil penalties under this code shall
be submitted to the agency within 10 days after entry of the judgment or order.”
Plaintiffs’ proposed order does not appear to contain any provision concerning
the submittal of the order to the LWDA. 
Fifth, the proposed order
provides, inter alia, that “[o]n July 29, 2024 Plaintiffs filed
an unopposed Motion for Approval of Settlement of Labor
Code Section 2698, et. seq., Private Attorneys General Act (‘PAGA’) Claims
and supporting documentation.” (Proposed Order, p. 1:26-28, emphasis added.) However,
the motion was filed on July 30, 2024. 
Sixth, the proposed order
provides that “California Labor Code section 2699(l)(2)
requires that the ‘superior court shall review and approve any settlement of
any civil action filed pursuant to’ the PAGA.” (Proposed Order, p. 2:5-6.)
However, it appears that such provision is now contained in Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (s)(2).
Seventh, the proposed order
provides that “[t]he Court further considered the range of settlement amounts
and awards of penalties approved by other courts when considering the value of
this settlement under the PAGA, as well as the defenses to the claims
presented.” (Proposed Order, p. 2:20-22.) However, it does not appear that
Plaintiffs provided any evidence on such points. 
Eighth, paragraphs 4 and 5 of
the proposed order reference Labor Code section 2699,
subdivision (g)(1). It appears that these paragraphs of the order should
refer to Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (k)(1),
which provides in pertinent part that “[a]ny employee who prevails in any
action shall be entitled to an award of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs…” 
Ninth, the proposed order
provides that “[a]s of the Effective Date, the Plaintiffs and all Covered Employees
are bound by the release of Private Attorneys General Act claims contained in
the Settlement Agreement.” (Proposed Order at p. 3:15-16.) However, the Settlement Agreement does not appear to
contain any provision specifying when the release will be effective.
            Conclusion
            Based on the foregoing, the Court denies
Plaintiffs’ motion for approval of settlement of Private Attorneys General Act
claims without prejudice.   
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  September 4, 2024                         ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court