 Case Number:  21NWCV00291    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  C PADILLA v. MENDOZA, ET AL.
CASE
NO.:  21NWCV00291
HEARING:
 9/11/24 @ 9:30 A.M. 
 
#2
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion to Terminate Stay is specially set for
hearing on November 14, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
 
Background
 
This lawsuit involves parties who reside in
California and entered into a contract about managing properties in
Mexico.  
 
On May 10, 2021, Plaintiff Marcel Padilla (“Plaintiff”)
filed the Complaint against Defendants Hermenegildo Espinoza Mendoza
(“Hermenegildo”), Jose Luis Espinoza Mendoza (“Jose”), and Alejandra Romero
Oceguera (“Alejandra”), alleging that Defendants breached an oral contract
entered in the City of Downey, California. Hermenegildo is Plaintiff’s
half-brother, Jose is Hermenegildo’s father and Alejandra is Hermenegildo’s
wife and Plaintiff’s sister-in-law. In February 2008, Plaintiff became
seriously ill. In the spring of 2008, Hermenegildo and Jose approached
Plaintiff in Downey, California, to propose that Hermenegildo would manage
Plaintiff’s businesses and properties in Mexico. They verbally agreed to the
following: 
 
·       
Hermenegildo would manage the Plaintiff's
600-acre ranch located in the municipality of Tocumbo in Michoacan, Mexico and
known as the Hacienda Suyapa de los Mendoza ("Los Mendoza").   
·       
Hermenegildo would find a buyer for a piece
of real property, known as "El Encinal", (also located in the
municipality of Tocurnbo), and arrange for the sale of El Encinal in the amount
of $ 300,000.00 US Dollars. 
·       
Hermenegildo, as a trustee of the Estate of
Plaintiff's mother Matilde Mendoza Dias, would distribute certain inheritance
and real properties.  
·       
Plaintiff's personal property, which
Plaintiff valued at approximately $200,000.00 US Dollars, was to be kept safe
by Hermenegildo until the Plaintiff had recovered from his illness. 
·       
Any profits generated by any of Plaintiff's
properties and businesses managed by Hermenegildo, were to be turned over to
Plaintiff at such time that Plaintiff had recovered from his illness. 
·       
Jose agreed to accept financial
responsibility for Hermenegildo's actions should Hermenegildo's actions cause
financial harm to Plaintiff. 
·       
In return for Hermenegildo and Jose
fulfilling their obligations, Plaintiff would pay Hermenegildo and Jose,
altogether, a total of fifty (50%) percent of the profits generated from the
businesses and property managed by Hermenegildo as stated above. 
·       
How Hermenegildo and Jose intended to divide
the 50% profit they would receive would be determined amongst themselves.
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the
contract by failing to disclose profits earned from the businesses,
fraudulently transferring the real properties, and disposing of Plaintiff’s
personal property.  The Complaint asserts
causes of action for: 1) Breach of Contract, 2) Promissory Estoppel, 3)
Intentional Misrepresentation, 4) Negligent Misrepresentation, 5) Unjust
Enrichment, 6) Conversion, 7) Conspiracy, 8) IIED, and 9) NIED.
 
On October 1, 2021, Defendants moved to
dismiss this lawsuit on the grounds of inconvenient forum pursuant to CCP §
418.10.  Defendants argued that the
matter should be heard in Mexico because a probate case was already pending
there and all matters involving the properties took place there.   In its
ruling dated January 26, 2022, the Court found, among other things, that there
was no evidence that alternative forum (Mexico) will not provide a remedy.  The Court stayed the instant action pending institution
and final determination of an action in Mexico. 
 
On July 26, 2023, the Court held a status
conference, and Plaintiff’s counsel stated that the court in Mexico dismissed
Plaintiff’s lawsuit for lack of jurisdiction. Counsel for Defendant was unable
to confirm this. The Court ordered Plaintiff to file a motion to lift stay. 
 
On February 1, 2024, Defendants filed a
motion for nonstatutory dismissal of the action for delay in prosecution.  
 
On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
to lift stay, arguing that the Mexican laws do not provide remedies for
Plaintiff. 
 
On March 20, 2024, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s motion to lift stay and Defendants’ motion for dismissal. The Court
ordered Plaintiff to show cause on today’s date why the action should not be
dismissed for lack of prosecution.   
 
On August 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Renewed
Motion to Terminate Stay.  Plaintiff maintains
that the stay should be terminated because he has no remedy in Mexico and the
parties are residents of California.  
 
Legal Standard
 
The other
forum's law need not be as favorable to plaintiff as local law. (Stangvik v.
Shiley, Inc., supra, 54 Cal.3d at 754 -- advantages of California procedural or
substantive law 'cannot be considered as a factor'.) The alternative forum's
law is irrelevant unless the remedy provided is so clearly inadequate or
unsatisfactory that it is no remedy at all. (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc., supra,
54 Cal.3d at 764.) The “no remedy at all” exception applies only in rare
circumstances, “such as where the alternative forum is a foreign country whose
courts are ruled by a dictatorship, so that there is no independent judiciary
or due process of law.” (Shiley, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (1992) 4 CA4th 126, 133134.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
asserts that in 2023, he hired a Mexican attorney, Claudia Alejandra Verduzco
Moreno, who filed a complaint on June 22, 2023 in the civil tribunal of Zamora,
Michoacan, Mexico.  On June 27, 2023, the
civil tribunal ruled that it did not have jurisdiction over the matter because
the defendants were not domiciled in the state of Michoacan, Mexico.  The ruling, translated from Spanish to
English, states, “this court is incompetent to hear it, since when claiming an
action of a personal nature, it must be the judge of the debtor’s domicile the
competent to hear said demand, since this is established by Article 165 of the
civil procedure code of the state …” (Davis Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff also
contends that all parties reside in California, with Plaintiff residing in Los
Angeles and Defendants residing in Stockton. 
Based thereon, the Court determines that Plaintiff has made a prima
facie showing that he has no legal remedy in Mexico for his claims, and that
California is the proper forum.  
 
Accordingly,
the Court specially sets a hearing on Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion to Terminate Stay
on Thursday, November 14, 2024, at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  Opposition and Reply briefs to be filed in
compliance with the new hearing date.