  Case Number:  19STCV05281    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 30, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: VACATED
                                                           
CASE:                         Vivera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Robert
C. Blaine, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV05281, consol. w/ 20STCV01610 & 19STCV19489            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Dr. Robert C. Blaine, Blaine Laboratories,
Inc., and Blaine Holding & Development, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Solutech
Pharmaceuticals, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/19/19: Complaint filed [lead case].
·        
03/04/19: Cross-Complaint filed [lead case].
·        
03/15/19: First Amended Complaint filed [lead
case].
·        
04/25/19: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by
Blaine Laboratories as to Paul Edalat et al. [lead case].
·        
05/10/19: Second Amended Complaint filed [lead
case].
·        
06/05/19: Complaint filed [19STCV19489].
·        
09/24/19: Cross-Complaint filed by Paul Edalat
as to Blaine Laboratories.
·        
01/14/20: Complaint filed [20STCV01610].
·        
04/12/21: Second Amended Cross-Complaint filed
by Blaine Laboratories as to Paul Edalat et al. [lead case].
·        
06/14/21: First Amended Complaint filed
[20STCV01610]
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This
is a breach of contract and misappropriation of trade secrets action involving
multiple consolidated and related actions and cross-actions. 
 
Defendants Dr. Robert C. Blaine,
Blaine Laboratories, Inc., and Blaine Holding & Development, LLC move for
summary judgment or summary adjudication of Solutech Pharmaceuticals, LLC’s claims.
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
            
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED with respect to the fourth cause of
action for conversion and otherwise DENIED.  
 
DISCUSSON:
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
            
Defendants Dr. Robert C. Blaine,
Blaine Laboratories, Inc., and Blaine Holding & Development, LLC move for
summary judgment of Solutech Pharmaceuticals, LLC’s claims.  
 
Because Defendants have not
demonstrated that they are entitled to summary adjudication of each cause of
action for the reasons stated below, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Defendants Dr. Robert C. Blaine,
Blaine Laboratories, Inc., and Blaine Holding & Development, LLC move in
the alternative for summary adjudication of  each of Solutech Pharmaceuticals, LLC’s
claims.  
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) Once the moving party has met that burden, section
437c shifts the burden to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto. If the opposing party cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the Court
must consider all the evidence set forth in the papers, except evidence to
which the Court has sustained an objection, as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment. (Ibid.)   
 
Second Cause of Action: False Designation of Origin;
False Advertising, and Unfair Competition (15 U.S.C § 1125(a).) 
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the second cause of action for false
designation of origin, false advertising, and unfair competition under 15
U.S.C. section 1125(a) on the grounds that Plaintiff abandoned its ownership of
the trademarks “Solutech,” “Solutech Pharmaceuticals,” “SIL-K,” “SIL-K PAD,”
and “NDC 70350-2615-01.” The operative First Amended Complaint alleges that
Defendants sold products bearing these trademarks without prior authorization
from Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 21, 38-44.) 
 
            Trademarks
are principally governed by the Lanham Act, codified at 15 U.S.C. section 1051 et
seq. The Lanham Act defines abandonment of a trademark as “[w]hen its use
has been discontinued with intent not to resume such use. Intent not to resume
may be inferred from circumstances. Nonuse for 3 consecutive years shall be
prima facie evidence of abandonment. “Use” of a mark means the bona fide use of
such mark made in the ordinary course of trade, and not made merely to reserve
a right in a mark.” (15 U.S.C § 1127.) “Because a finding of abandonment works
an involuntary forfeiture of rights, federal courts uniformly agree that
defendants asserting an abandonment defense face a ‘stringent,’ ‘heavy,’ or
‘strict’ burden of proof. (Cumulus Media Inc. v. Clear Channel Comm., Inc.
(11th Cir. 2002) 304 F.3d 1167, 1175.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that Plaintiff abandoned its trademarks because, by Plaintiff’s own
admission, it ceased manufacturing or distributing any of the branded
products—and, therefore, ceased using the marks in commerce—as of May 2018.
(Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts Issue 2 Nos. 2, 4-8.) Thus,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s cessation of using its marks in trade for
more than three years with no intent to resume is conclusive evidence of
abandonment. However, as Plaintiff argues in its opposition, Defendants
entirely neglect that Plaintiff commenced this action against these Defendants
on January 14, 2020, less than two years after it ceased manufacturing or
distributing the products. The Court is not persuaded that Plaintiff can be
considered as having abandoned its trademarks where it commences an action for,
inter alia, trademark infringement within the three-year period
described by the statute. The Court therefore finds that Defendants have failed
to demonstrate that Plaintiff cannot prevail on this cause of action based on
abandonment. The burden therefore does not shift to Plaintiff to demonstrate a
triable issue of fact in this respect. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the second cause of action is
DENIED.
 
//
 
First Cause of Action: Unfair Competition
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for unfair
competition on the same basis as the second cause of action. Accordingly, for
the reasons stated above, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED
with respect to the first cause of action.
 
Third Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief. 
 
Defendants move for summary
adjudication of the third cause of action for declaratory relief on the same
basis as the second cause of action. Accordingly, for the reasons stated above,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED with respect to the third
cause of action.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Conversion
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action for conversion on
the grounds that this cause of action lacks merit. 
 
            Defendants
contend that this claim is governed by Arizona law rather than California law
because the factual basis for the claim arises from a Supplier/Distributor
Agreement between the parties. (Declaration of Robert C. Blaine ISO Mot. Exh.
B. ¶ 11A.)  The First Amended Complaint
alleges that the parties had a Supplier/Distributor Agreement in which Defendants
would produce prescription silicone scar care products for Plaintiff. (FAC ¶
10.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants unilaterally terminated the Agreement “effective
immediately,” without the required 60 days written notice and retained 30,000
units of product that had been manufactured but not delivered before the notice
period expired. (FAC ¶¶ 17, 19; 52-59.) While the Agreement is referenced
extensively in Defendants’ Separate Statement (e.g., SSUMF Issue 4 Nos. 12-15),
the Separate Statement does not reference the provision to which Defendants
refer in claiming that the agreement is governed by Arizona law. Plaintiff does
not object to the application of Arizona law as pertaining to the issues raised
on this motion. The Court will therefore accept the parties’ choice of law as
set forth in the Agreement. (See Pitzer College v. Indian Harbor Ins. Co. (2019)
8 Cal.5th 93, 100.) 
 
            Conversion,
under Arizona law, is “an intentional exercise of dominion or control over a
chattel which so seriously interferes with the right of another to control it
that the actor may justly be required to pay the other the full value of the
chattel.” (Focal Point Inc. v. U-Haul Co. (App.1986) 155 Ariz. 318, 319.)
Defendants contend that Plaintiff did not have a right to control the products
in Defendants’ possession because Plaintiff had not satisfied its obligations
under the Agreement with respect to those products. Section 6A of the Agreement
provides:
 
Upon a written order of products the
purchased order or P.O., Distributor MUST PAY SUPPLIER 50% UP FRONT of the
total purchase order. The remaining 50% of the purchase price, MUST be paid
once the order of products are ready to be delivered to the Distributor. After
all payments have been received, only then will supplier release such order of
products to distributor.
 
(SSUMF Issue 4 No. 13; see also Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement of Disputed Material Fact No. 13.) At the time Defendants sent the
putative termination notice on June 4, 2018, Defendants had approximately
80,000 pads and 2,800 kits in their possession. (SSUMF Issue 4 Nos. 16-17.) Defendants
contend that Plaintiff never paid for those products. (SSUMF Issue 4 No. 17.) Defendants
have thus offered evidence that Plaintiff did not, in fact, have a possessory
right to the products alleged to be in Defendant's possession, and, therefore,
that Plaintiff cannot maintain a conversion claim for these products. The
burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue of fact in
this respect. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ position concedes that the pads
and kits in their possession rightfully belonged to Plaintiff. The Court is not
persuaded. In fact, Plaintiff’s supporting evidence indicates that it never placed
any order for those products. (SSDMF No. 17, Declaration of Mehran David
Kohenbash ISO Opp. ¶¶ 7, 12.) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has not
demonstrated a triable issue of fact with respect to the conversion claim.
Defendants are therefore entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of
action.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the fourth cause
of action for conversion. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action for breach of
contract on the grounds that Plaintiff’s claims in this regard are without
merit. 
 
            To prevail
on a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must prove the existence of a
contract, its breach, and resulting damages. (Thomas v. Montelucia Villas,
LLC (2013) 232 Ariz. 92, 96.) Where the terms of a contract are clear and
unambiguous, the court may determine the proper construction of those terms as
a matter of law. (Jeski v. Am. Exp. Co. (App. 1985) 147 Ariz. 19, 22.) 
 
            The First
Amended Complaint alleges that Defendants breached the Agreement by failing to
comply with the termination provision and by selling SIL-K PAD products bearing
Plaintiff’s name, logo, and National Drug Code identification number without
Plaintiff’s permission. (FAC ¶63.) Defendants contend that Plaintiff had not
complied with its obligations under the agreement to pay for the products in
its possession, and, in any event, Defendants properly exercised their right to
terminate the agreement pursuant to the termination clause. The termination clause
provides that either party may terminate the agreement “at any time, with or
without cause,” by providing the other party with “60 days written notice.”
(SSUMF Issue 5 No. 14; Blaine Decl. Exh. B. § 9.) Section 21 of the Agreement
states: 
 
Whenever notice is
required to be given under the terms of this Agreement to either party, it
shall be given to the other party by personal delivery, or by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested or by overnight courier or by
facsimile confirmed by first class mail and machine confirmation at the
addresses and/or facsimile numbers designated below. 
 
A.   
If to SUPPLIER, addressed as follows: 
 
Blaine
Labs 
11037
Lockport Place 
Sante
Fe Springs, CA 90670 
 
Email:
_________
 
B.    
If to DISTRIBUTOR, addressed as follows: 
 
Solutech
Pharmacuticals 
11001 North 99th Ave
#117 
Peoria, AZ 85345
 
Email: ____________
 
or
to such other or further address as either party may specify to the other, by
notice in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
 
(Blaine Decl. Exh. B. § 21.) 
 
            Defendants
state that they gave notice in conformity with the requirements of the
agreement. (SSUMF Issue 5 No. 16.) However, while the attached notice appears
to bear the correct address, it states that it was given “via email and US
mail,” not in any of the forms identified by section 21 of the agreement.
(Blaine Decl. Exh. E.) Moreover, as Plaintiff argues extensively, the letter
states that Blaine Laboratories “will be terminating [its] agreement with
Solutech Pharmaceuticals, effective immediately.” (Id.) Construed in the
light most favorable to Plaintiff, the plain language of this letter belies the
argument that Defendants gave 60 days’ notice of termination, if they gave any
notice at all. Defendants’ evidence therefore fails to support the position
that Defendants properly exercised their right to terminate the agreement, and,
for that reason alone, Defendants have not demonstrated the deficiency of this
cause of action. Defendants are therefore not entitled to summary adjudication on
this basis.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the fifth cause of action is
DENIED. 
 
//
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds that this cause
of action lacks merit.
 
            A party to
a contract has an implied obligation of good faith and fair dealing. (Rawlings
v. Apodaca (1986) 151 Ariz. 149, 726 P.2d 565, 569.) This covenant requires
that “neither party do anything that will injure the right of the other to
receive the benefits of their agreement.” (Nelson v. Phoenix Resort Corp.
(App.1994) 181 Ariz. 188, 197.) 
 
            Defendants
assert that they were not “unfair, inequitable, or unreasonable but acted in
good faith.” Defendants also argue that this cause of action fails alongside
the fifth cause of action for breach of contract. Neither contention is
persuasive. Bare assertions are not sufficient to carry Defendants’ burden on
summary adjudication. Further, as the Court has rejected Defendants’ challenge
to the fifth cause of action, that line of attack is deficient as to this
claim. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to the sixth cause of
action.
 
Ninth Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit
 
            Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the ninth cause of action for quantum meruit
on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot prevail on this claim.
 
            “Quantum
meruit damages are available when services are performed under an unenforceable
contract or when they are rendered in the absence of a contract.” (W. Corr.
Grp., Inc. v. Tierney (App.2004) 208 Ariz. 583, 590; see also Hedging
Concepts Inc. v. First All. Mortg. Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th
1410, 1419 [as modified on denial of reh’g February 22, 1996].) 
 
            Defendants
contend that Plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action for quantum meruit
because the dispute involves an express contract, and, even if the contract no
longer exists because of Defendants’ termination, Plaintiff is not entitled to
any benefits from the sale of the products because it abandoned its marks and
had no possessory interest in the products themselves. The Court disagrees for
several reasons.  First, Defendants
cannot simultaneously claim that there is no contract between the parties and
that Plaintiff cannot seek a remedy under a quantum meruit theory based on the
existence of a valid. Second, whether Defendants validly terminated the
contract is a triable issue of material fact which has not been resolved.
Third, and most crucially, the Court has rejected Defendants’ argument that
Plaintiff abandoned its trademarks. Therefore, Defendants have not established
that Plaintiff has no right or interest in the products as to which it would be
entitled to compensation.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to the ninth cause of
action for quantum meruit. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the fourth cause
of action for conversion and otherwise DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED with respect to the fourth cause of
action for conversion and otherwise DENIED.  
 
            Moving Parties
to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 30, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 