  Case Number:  22STCV29241    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    December 4, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      22STCV29241
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Daniel Luna
v. Los Angeles Rams, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendants, Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC (DOES
3), and Stadco LA, LLC (DOE 2)
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Daniel Luna and Irena Sulencka
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           December 16, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Demurrer¿ 
                                                (2)
Motion to Strike
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend.
                                                (2)
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is Mooted
¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
On September 8, 2022,
Plaintiffs, Daniel Luna and Irena Sulencka (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Los Angeles Rams, Hollywood Park Management Co.
II, LLC, KSE Sportsman Media, Inc., Stockbridge Capital Group, LLC, Apex
Security Group, Inc., Bryan Alexis Cifuentes, and DOES 1 through 100. On May
12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint. On  October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2)
Premises Liability; (3) Assault; (4) Battery; (5) Loss of Consortium; (6)
Public Employee Negligence; and (7) Mandatory Duty pursuant to Gov. Code §
815.6. 
 
Defendants, Hollywood
Park Management Company, LLC (DOE 3) and Stadco La, LLC (DOE 2) have now filed
a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the SAC. 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On
October 2, 2023, Defendants filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On November
15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed oppositions to both motions. On November 21, 2023, Defendants
filed a reply brief. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            Along
with Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike, Defendants requested this Court
take Judicial Notice of the following documents: 
 
1.     The
existence of the complaint in the matter styled Daniel Luna; and Irena Sulencka
vs. Los Angeles Rams; Hollywood Park Management Co. II, LLC; KSE Sportsman
Media, Inc.; Stockbridge Capital Group, LLC; Apex Security Group, Inc.; Bryan
Alexis Cifuentes, and Does 1 to 100, inclusive, Los Angeles Superior Court Case
number 22STCV29241, filed September 8, 2022. A true and correct copy is
attached hereto as Exhibit “A.” 
2.     The
existence of the First Amended Complaint in the matter styled Daniel Luna; and
Irena Sulencka vs. Los Angeles Rams, Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC;
STADCO LA, LLC; Apex Security Group, Inc.; Bryan Alexis Cifuentes; County of
Los Angeles; City of Inglewood, and Does 1 to 100, inclusive, Los Angeles
Superior Court Case number 22STCV29241, filed May 18, 2023. A true and correct
copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “B.” 
3.     The
existence of the Second Amended Complaint in the matter styled Daniel Luna; and
Irena Sulencka vs. Los Angeles Rams, Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC;
STADCO LA, LLC; Bryan Alexis Cifuentes; County Of Los Angeles; Contemporary
Services Corporation; and, and Does 1 to 100, inclusive, Los Angeles Superior
Court Case number 22STCV29241, filed October 2 2023. A true and correct copy is
attached hereto as Exhibit “C.”
 
This
Court GRANTS this request and takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Demurrer
 
A demurrer can be used only
to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or
from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of
action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if
it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿
 
Heightened Foreseeability Issue
 
Defendants’ Demurrer is
based on their argument that Plaintiffs’ must establish the existence of
"heightened foreseeability” in order to state a claim.
 
California law requires landowners to maintain land in their
possession and control in a reasonably safe condition.  (Ann M. v.
Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).) 
The liability of landowners for injuries to people on their property is
governed by general negligence principles.  (Pineda v. Ennabe (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1407 (Pineda).)   
A cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the
plaintiff to use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4)
damage to the plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)  The existence of a legal duty
is a question for the court to determine, and “foreseeability is a ‘crucial
factor’ in determining the existence and scope of a legal duty.”  (Delgado
v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 237, citing Ann M.,
supra, 6 Cal.4th at pp. 674, 676 (Delgado).) However, [A] high
degree of foreseeability is required in order
to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty of care includes the hiring of
security guards. . . . [T]he requisite degree of foreseeability rarely, if
ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent crime
on the landowner’s premises.  To hold otherwise would be to impose an
unfair burden upon landlords and, in effect, would force landlords to become
the insurers of public safety, contrary to well established policy in this
state.”  (Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 679, footnote
omitted.)  “Heightened foreseeability is satisfied by a
showing of prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a
reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in that location) and
does not require a showing of prior nearly identical criminal
incidents.  (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 245.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege
Defendants had a duty of reasonable care to patrol, monitor and enforce
policies related to alcohol consumption, drunkenness, un-ticketed fans on the
subject premises and provide and enforce security procedures and protocols.
(SAC, ¶ 28.) Plaintiffs also allege Defendants had a duty to provide adequate,
trained, and sufficient levels of security. (SAC, ¶ 29.) Additionally,
Plaintiffs assert Defendants had a duty to have on site holding cells, pens or
other designated areas for patrons and persons on the premises under the
influence of alcohol and/or acting in violation of the rules, regulations, and
policies. (SAC, ¶ 30.) Plaintiffs purport that Defendants had a duty to
reasonably screen patrons upon entry to the subject premises and to prohibit
patrons from attending the fame or eject patrons that exhibited signs of
intoxication or violent tendencies. (SAC, ¶ 35.) Plaintiffs contend these
duties arise because Defendants had knowledge of prior similar acts of violence
at NFL football games, including games played at SoFi Stadium and adjacent
parking areas. (SAC, ¶ 34.)
 
Defendants cite to Hanouchian
v. Steele (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 99, where sorority members at a California
university hosted an open party (a party that had unrestricted access by
nonmembers without invitation where alcohol was present) at their off-campus
residence. (Hanouchian, supra, 51 Cal.App.5th at 104.) Two men attacked
the plaintiff at the party, and subsequently, Plaintiff sued the sorority members
for negligence based on their failure to follow the university’s and the
fraternal organizations’ risk management protocols. (Id. at 103.) Such
protocols required sororities to limit the type and amount of alcohol served,
to provide security, to have an approved guest list, and to comply with risk
management policies, which precluded open parties (Id. at 103-104, 109.)
Moreover, the protocols were developed in response to prior incidents involving
violence and unlimited alcohol. The Hanouchian plaintiff claimed the
sorority members should have had security guards, vetted attendees, and abided
by the risk management policies. The Second District noted that providing
security guards and vetting attendees are “highly burdensome measures that
require a heightened degree of foreseeability.” (Id. at 109.) This Court
briefly notes that this recent precedent alone defeats Plaintiffs’ argument in
their opposition that a heightened degree of foreseeability was not required. 
 
Moving back to Hanouchian,
the Court of Appeals asserted that a defendant has no duty to take steps to
prevent or respond to third party crime based on constructive knowledge or
information that the defendant should have known (Id. at 112.) The Court
found that knowledge of prior incidents at fraternity parties established only
“general knowledge of the possibility of violent criminal conduct, and did not
suffice to make it highly foreseeable a criminal assault would occur at a
specific party. (Id. at 113.) The Second District found that although
Plaintiff alleged the sorority was aware of past similar incidents at the
university, Plaintiff did not allege the sorority was aware of prior similar
incidents at their own sorority party specifically, let alone that the sorority
had actual knowledge of the two violent men’s violent propensities that would
have warranted the men’s exclusions from the party. (Ibid.) The Court
continued to note that Plaintiff also failed to allege that the sorority was
aware of an imminent attack, or that they knew his would-be assailants had been
“partying heavily at the event and were looking to start a fight. (Ibid.)
The Court held that the sorority’s alleged knowledge of prior incidents at
other fraternity parties established only “general knowledge of the possibility
of violent criminal conduct” and did not suffice to make it highly foreseeable
that a criminal assault would occur at the sorority party. The Court reasoned
that this sort of “constructive knowledge” or imputation of foreseeability by
“common sense” is not sufficient to impose, as a legal duty, the burdensome
measures Plaintiff proposed. (Ibid.)
 
Here, as noted above,
Plaintiff seeks to impose a duty on Defendants to employ competent security
guards, have places to hold intoxicated individuals, and screen individuals,
not ones that are coming into their stadium, but those that are in the parking
lot of the stadium. This Court notes that these are burdensome requests and
would implicate a heightened level of foreseeability.  Notwithstanding that California is the home
state of three professional football teams, four professional baseball teams,
at least three men’s and one women’s professional soccer teams, and dozens of
collegiate football, baseball, and both men’s and women’s soccer teams all of
whom play in stadia with outdoor parking adjacent to each stadium, the
California Legislature has not imposed such duties on the owners or operators
of stadia in this state.  
 
In Plaintiffs’ opposition,
they seek to distinguish each of the cases relied on by Defendants. Namely,
Plaintiffs argue that Hanouchian can be distinguished because the Court
there found that Plaintiff’s allegations of defendant’s knowledge of past
violent incidences at other fraternity parties did not suffice to make
it highly foreseeable that an assault would occur at the sorority house. ((Hanouchian,
supra, 51 Cal.App.5th at 113.) Plaintiffs argue that here, they have
alleged Defendants had knowledge of prior similar acts of violence – not only
at NFL games generally – but at SoFi Stadium and adjacent parking areas. Although
Plaintiffs are correct, this Court notes that other factors were also discussed
in the Hanouchian Court’s analysis of facts and allegation not included
by the Plaintiff, such as: failure to allege the sorority had actual knowledge
of the two violent men’s violent propensities; failure to allege the sorority
was aware of an imminent attack; failure to allege the sorority know the
assailants had been “partying heavily” and looking for a fight. 
 
Here, the Court notes that
Plaintiff has included one of these allegations only, which is that Defendants
had knowledge of prior similar acts played at SoFi stadium and adjacent parking
lot areas. Although this Court accept these alleged facts as true, in the Court’s
view Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts to meet the heightened
foreseeability standard requirement. Plaintiffs do not allege “actual
knowledge” of the prior incident, but merely state “knowledge” in a conclusory
manner and have failed to allege actual knowledge on most of the other Hanouchian
elements. Because California precedent clearly indicates that actual
knowledge of a series of highly foreseeable elements is required, this Court
holds the Demurrer SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. While
amending the pleading, the Court invites Plaintiffs to analyze the standards
discussed above, and urges them to include more facts and allegations, if the
same can truthfully be so alleged, similar to those identified in Hanouchian
in future pleadings. 
 
As for Defendants’ argument
that Plaintiffs have failed to plead a special relationship, the Court
disagrees. However, the Court does SUSTAIN the demurrer as to the loss of
consortium cause of action as the causes of action for negligence and premises
liability against the demurrer defendants have been sustained. 
 
B.    Motion
to Strike 
¿ 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)¿ The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.¿ (Id., § 436(b).)¿ The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Id., § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id.,
§ 437.)¿ “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of
cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)
 
            Here,
Defendants’ Motion to Strike seeks to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorneys
fees. However, the Court notes, as does Plaintiffs in their opposition, that Plaintiffs’
prayer for attorneys’ fees against the defendants here, rests on the
allegations made in their negligence and premises liability causes of action.
Because both of these causes of action have been found to lack sufficient facts
to state causes of action, this Court finds that the Motion to Strike is
mooted. As noted above, Plaintiffs have twenty (20) days leave to amend. But if
Plaintiffs do amend per the Demurrer papwrmater discussed above, any prayer for
recovery of attorneys fees will require a contractual or statutory basis as
required under California law.
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’
Demurrer is SUSTAINED. Additionally, the Motion to Strike is mooted. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice. 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿