  Case Number:  24VECV01480    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Brandon
  Daniels,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 Alta Los Angeles Hospitals, Inc. dba
  Southern California Hospital at Van Nuys, et al.
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
24VECV01480                        107




 
 
COURT’S[TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:       Demurrer  
 



 
 
 
Defendant
Southern California Healthcare System, Inc. dba Southern California Hospital at
Van Nuys (“Defendant”) demurs to the complaint brought by Plaintiff Brandon
Daniels. The court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff alleges Defendant James Caldwell
sexually assaulted him while he was a patient at Defendant’s hospital.
(Complaint ¶¶ 13-17.) Plaintiff reported the incident to Defendant’s staff, and
asked employees for help, for police to be contacted, and to go to the
emergency room for examination. (Complaint ¶¶ 19-20.) Defendant’s staff did not
allow Plaintiff to leave but “made cruel comments in Plaintiff’s hearing that
the police would not care about what had happened to Plaintiff, and would not
rush over to help upon report of the incident.” (Complaint ¶ 20.) The next day,
police were dispatched to the hospital. (Complaint ¶ 22.) Plaintiff was
transported to a different hospital, “where he submitted to a sexual assault
examination and dried secretions were found on the hospital gown he had been
wearing at the time of the assault.” (Complaint ¶ 23.) 
 
On August 19, 2024, Defendant the instant demurrer. Plaintiff
filed an opposition on September 16, 2024, to which no reply was filed.
II.
PROCEDURAL MATTERS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Timeliness
of Filings¿ 
¿ 
Under California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.40, subdivision
(a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30 days after service of
the complaint. Under California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision
(b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set
for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days
before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least
five court days before the set hearing. Judges have discretion as to whether to
consider or strike an untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister v. County
of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281.)
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant filed a declaration of demurring party
in support of automatic extension. (Declaration for Automatic Extension.)  Defendant filed the instant demurrer on
August 19, 2024.  Thus, the demurrer was
timely.
 
Plaintiff filed its opposition on September 16, 2024. The hearing
is set for September 30, 2024. Nine court days before September 30, 2024, is
September 16, 2024. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s opposition is timely.
 
B.   
The
Meet & Confer Requirement¿ 
¿ 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41,
subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the
filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in
the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve
the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the
opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good faith.
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿ 
 
Defendant filed a declaration by counsel indicating the parties
met and conferred but were unable to reach an agreement. (Hirota ¶ 4.) 
¿ 
The
Court finds the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.
¿ 
III.
LEGAL STANDARD 
¿¿ 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains “[a]¿statement¿of
the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint
ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”
(Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿
 
IV.
DISCUSSION 
 

Second Cause of Action for
     Dependent Adult Abuse

 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged any purported misconduct was
authorized or ratified by an officer, director or managing agent. (Demurrer at
p. 3.) 
 
Under
the Welfare and Institutions Code § 15610.23(a), a “Dependent Adult” includes
“any person between the ages of 18 and 64 years old who is admitted as an
inpatient to a 24-hour health facility as defined in sections 1250, 1250.2, and
1250.3 of the Health and Safety Code. Section 15610.06 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code defines “abuse of an elder or dependent adult” as “(1)
Physical abuse, neglect, financial abuse, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or
other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering [; or]
(2) The deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary
to avoid physical harm or suffering.” Physical abuse includes sexual assault.
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.63.)  
 
To
obtain exemplary damages from an employer, the Plaintiff must allege facts
showing: (1) “the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others”; (2) the employer “authorized or ratified the wrongful
conduct for which the damages are awarded” or (3) an officer, director, or
managing agent of the company “was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
3294(a).) “[T]o establish that an individual is a managing agent, a plaintiff
seeking punitive damages must show that ‘the employee exercised substantial
discretionary authority over significant aspects of a corporation’s business.”
(CRST, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1273.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant is a “healthcare facility that was owned, operated,
managed, staffed and offered to the public, including, but not limited to
Plaintiff, as defined in California Health and Safety Code, Section 1250.”  (Complaint ¶ 10.) Plaintiff further alleges
he was a dependent adult because he was admitted as an inpatient to Defendant’s
hospital after suffering a mental breakdown. (Complaint ¶¶ 12-13.) Plaintiff
also alleges that after he was sexually assaulted while under Defendant’s care,
Defendant’s staff made cruel comments, failed to call police, and failed to
take Plaintiff to the emergency room for examination. (Complaint ¶¶ at 14-16, 19-20.)
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that, because of Defendant’s staff’s conduct, he
has suffered “physical and mental pain and suffering, severe emotional
distress, [and] physical injuries.” (Complaint ¶ 88.) Accordingly, Plaintiff
has sufficiently plead a cause of action for dependent elder abuse.
 
An
employer may be responsible for exemplary damages if the employer “authorized
or ratified the wrongful conduct for which damages are awarded.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 3294(a).) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant and Defendants Does 1 through 50 were
“responsible for the ownership, operation, control, management, maintenance
and/or supervision of SCH Van Nuys.” (Complaint ¶ 11.) Plaintiff further
alleges “Plaintiff made repeated requests for help, for the police to be
contacted and to go to the emergency room for examination. However, the staff
at [Defendant’s hospital] under the supervision of acting supervisor DOE 1,
refused to comply stating that it was not a part of their procedure.” (Complaint
¶ 19.) This indicates the employer authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
by creating and enforcing a procedure which prevented its employees from
seeking help for Plaintiff.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded that Defendant authorized or ratified its
employees’ conduct.
 
To
obtain remedies available under section 15657, the Plaintiff “must demonstrate
by clear and convincing evidence that [the Defendant] is guilty of something
more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious conduct.” (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31.)
Recklessness “has been described as a ‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high
degree of probability’ that an injury will occur.” (Id.) “Recklessness,
unlike negligence, involves more than ‘inadvertence, incompetence,
unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions, but rather rises to the level
of a ‘conscious choice of a course of action . . . with knowledge of the
serious danger to others involved in it.” (Id.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant’s employees failed to call the police or
take him to the emergency room because “it was not a part of their procedure.”
(Complaint ¶ 19.) A procedure preventing hospital employees from calling the
police or taking a sexual assault victim to the emergency room could be
interpreted as rising to the level of a “conscious choice of a course of action
. . . with knowledge of the serious danger to others involved in it.” 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff plead sufficient facts to sustain his second cause of action,
including Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. (Complaint ¶ 40.)  
 

Sixth Cause of Action for
     Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress

 
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress requires: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct
by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering of
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Hughes v.
Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.) A defendant’s conduct is “outrageous”
when it is so “extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized society.” (Id. At 1051.) Behavior may be considered outrageous
if a defendant: (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to
damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to
injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably
with recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress. (McDaniel v. Gile (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 363, 372.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that after he was sexually assaulted, Defendant’s employees
failed to call the police or take him to the emergency room and then made
“cruel comments in Plaintiff’s hearing that the police would not care about
what had happened to Plaintiff, and would not rush over to help upon report of
the incident.” (Complaint ¶¶ 19-20, 71.) Plaintiff further alleges that the SCH
Defendants “acted with reckless disregard of the probability that Plaintiff,
who was already in a vulnerable state and was at SCH Van Nuys under the care of
SCH Defendants particularly due to the deteriorated condition of his mental and
emotional health, would suffer emotional distress as a result of the actions of
SCH Defendants.” (Complaint ¶ 72.) 
 
Defendant’s
employees’ following hospital policy and not calling police or taking Plaintiff
to be examined may not be considered extreme and outrageous conduct, but
Defendant’s employees’ “cruel comments” within Plaintiff’s hearing could be
interpreted as extreme and outrageous conduct with either the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress.  Further, Plaintiff alleges
that, “as a result of the outrageous conduct of SCH Defendants,” he “suffered
injuries and damages including, but not limited to . . . severe emotional
distress.” (Complaint ¶ 75.) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff pleaded sufficient facts to sustain his sixth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 

Vicarious Liability for
     Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress

 
Defendant
argues that “the Complaint is devoid of any allegations establishing any
ratification of the allegedly offending conduct by an officer, director or
other managing agent of Defendant, as required to sustain an action for direct
or vicarious liability of a corporate entity.” (Demurrer at p. 8.) 
 
“An
employer may be liable for an employee’s willful and malicious actions under
principles of ratification.” (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies, Inc. (2006)
145 Cal.App.4th 790, 810.) “The failure to discharge an employee after
knowledge of his or her wrongful acts may be evidence supporting ratification.”
(Id) Alternatively, an employer may be held liable under the doctrine of
respondeat superior. (Id. at p. 812.) “[A]n employer is vicariously
liable for his employee’s torts committed within the scope of the employment .
. . A risk arises out of the employment when ‘in the context of the particular
enterprise an employee’s conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would
seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the
employer’s business.” (Id.) “[I]f an employee’s tort is personal in
nature, mere presence at the place of employment and attendance to occupational
duties prior to or subsequent to the offense will not give rise to a cause of
action against the employer under the doctrine of respondeat superior.” (Id.)
Finally, “[a]n employer may be liable to a third person for the employer’s
negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or unfit.” (Id.
at p. 815.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing Defendant ratified its employees’
comments, or that Defendant was negligent in hiring its employees who made the
comments. But Defendant’s employees’ comments could be seen as occurring within
the scope of their employment because Defendant’s employees were caring for
Defendant while he was admitted to Defendant’s hospital. (Complaint ¶ 71) 
 
As
such, Plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded facts to support his cause of action
for vicarious liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 

Punitive Damages Claim

 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff has not plead sufficient facts to support a punitive damages
award. (Demurrer at p. 8.)
 
Plaintiff
may recover punitive damages when the Plaintiff proves, by clear and convincing
evidence, the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ.
Code 3294(a).) 
Malice
is defined as: “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.)  Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights.” (Id.) “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a),
based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Id.) 
 
Here,
as noted above, as it relates to the intentional infliction of emotional
distress claim, Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing Defendant ratified its
employees’ comments or that Defendant had advance knowledge of its employees’
unfitness. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not sufficiently pleaded facts supporting viable punitive damages
claim for his intentional infliction of emotional distress causes of action.
 

 Leave
     to Amend 

 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is
any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action,
it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has
not had an opportunity to amend the complaint in response to the demurrer,
leave to amend is liberally allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the
complaint shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment.” (City of
Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally
allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even
without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303-304.)¿ 
¿ 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
 
Dated:  September 30, 2024                                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court