  Case Number:  21GDCV01055    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  E CONFIDENTIAL, COURT
PRIVILEGED DOCUMENT
Case No: 21GDCV01055
Hearing Date: 01/05/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: 
Case Names: 

First Amended Complaint (FAC): MARK GERAGOS, an individual; PAULETTE
GERAGOS, an individual, v. ROBERT FRIEDLAND, an individual; CAREEN A.
FRIEDLAND, an individual; and DOES 1-10, inclusive
 
First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC): ROBERT FRIEDLAND, an
individual, and CAREEN A. FRIEDLAND, an individual, v. MARK GERAGOS, an
individual; PAULETTE GERAGOS, an individual, ALL PERSONS UNKNOWN, CLAIMING ANY
LEGAL OR EQUITABLE RIGHT, TITLE, ESTATE, LIEN OR INTERST IN THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED
IN THE CROSS-COMPLAINT ADVERSE TO CROSS-COMPLAINANTS’ TITLE, OR ANY CLOUD UPON
CROSS-COMPLAINAINTS’ TITLE THERETO, AND ROES 1-20 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTION
TO BIFURCATE]
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendants, Robert Friedland and Careen A.
Friedland move Ex Parte to set a hearing
to Bifurcate the First Amended Complaint’s First and Second Causes of Action
and the First Amended Cross Complaint’s First Cause of Action, all three of
which relate to the ownership and use of the area depicted in the First Amended
Complaint as Exhibit C from the First Amended Complaint. The First Amended
Cross Complaint’s Second Cause of Action for Nuisance and Third Cause of Action
for Trespass would be tried, if necessary, following the trial on the causes of
action in the First Amended Complaint’s two Causes of Action and the First
Cause of Action of the First Amended Cross Complaint. 
 
The Application suggests that the Motion be set on the
date of the currently scheduled Status Conference, December 13, 2023. 
 
This Ex Parte Application is based on this
Notice, the attached [Proposed] Notice of Motion and Motion and its Memorandum
of Points and Authorities, the Declaration of Bruce Gridley re Notice of this
Ex Parte Application and such other factual and legal arguments as may be
asserted at the hearing in this matter.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendants/Cross-Complainants,
Robert Friedland and Careen A. Friedland
Responding Party: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants, Mark Geragos and
Paulette Geragos
Moving Papers: Ex Parte Application to Bifurcate
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300(c)):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
BACKGROUND
On 10/18/2021, Plaintiffs,
Mark Geragos and Paulette Geragos, filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) for
Quiet Title and Prescriptive Easement against Defendants Robert Friedland and
Careen A. Friedland.
On 09/18/2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants,
Robert Friedland and Careen A. Friedland, filed a Verified First Amended
Cross-Complaint (FACC) for Quiet Title, Nuisance, and Trespass.
 
The instant actions involve a dispute between
landowners with adjacent properties.
 
On 11/17/2023, this Court denied
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP motion.
 
On 11/30/2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
filed an Ex Parte Application to Bifurcate. The Court ruled as follows:
 
The matter is called for hearing. 
 
On Ex Parte, with agreement of counsel, court
orders as follows: 
 
The Ex Parte Application to Bifurcate filed by
Robert Friedland, an individual, Careen A. Friedland, an individual on
11/30/2023 is Granted.
 
Hearing on Motion to Bifurcate is scheduled for
01/05/24 at 08:30 AM in Department E at Glendale Courthouse. 
 
Status Conference is continued to 01/05/24 at
08:30 AM in Department E at Glendale Courthouse. 
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
(12/05/2023 Min. Order.)
 
As to the instant motion to bifurcate that is on
hearing for 01/05/2024, Defendants/Cross-Complainants did not file an
additional motion to bifurcate separate from their ex parte application to
bifurcate that was filed on 11/30/2023. It appears as if the ex parte application
to bifurcate filed on 11/30/2023 is also the instant motion to bifurcate that
is being heard on 01/05/2024.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD – BIFURCATION
Trial
courts have wide discretion in deciding the sequence of issues for trial. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1048; Evid. Code, § 320; Grappo
v. Coventry Fin. Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504 [“trial courts have
broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests of judicial
economy”].)
C.C.P. § 598 provides as follows: 
The court may,
when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of
pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held,
or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may
make such an order at any time. Where trial of the issue of liability as to all
causes of action precedes the trial of other issues or parts thereof, and the
decision of the court, or the verdict of the jury upon such issue so tried is
in favor of any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, judgment in
favor of such party shall thereupon be entered and no trial of other issues in
the action as against such party shall be had unless such judgment shall be
reversed upon appeal or otherwise set aside or vacated. If the decision of the
court, or the verdict of the jury upon the issue of liability so tried shall be
against any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, or if the decision
of the court or the verdict of the jury upon any other issue or part thereof so
tried does not result in a judgment being entered pursuant to this chapter,
then the trial of the other issues or parts thereof shall thereafter be had at
such time, and if a jury trial, before the same or another jury, as ordered by
the court either upon its own motion or upon the motion of any party, and
judgment shall be entered in the same manner and with the same effect as if all
the issues in the case had been tried at one time.
(CCP §598.)
 
C.C.P. § 1048(b) provides, as follows, “ The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of this state or of the United States.
“The major objective of bifurcated trials is to
expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.” (Foreman &
Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)  
Bifurcation frequently occurs when the determination
of one issue, such as an affirmative defense, renders other issues moot.
(See, e.g., Buran Equipment v. H& C Investment Co. (1983)
142 Cal.App.3d 338, 343-344.) Trial courts also often bifurcate
equitable and legal issues, resolving the issues of equity first in order to
promote judicial economy. (Darbun Enters, Inc. v. San Fernando
Community Hosp. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 399, 408-409.) 
ANALYSIS
The
instant motion seeks to bifurcate the first (quiet title) and second (quiet
title – prescriptive easement) causes of action in the FAC along with the FACC’s
first (quiet title) cause of action from the FACC’s second (nuisance) and third
(trespass) causes of action.
In moving papers, Defendants begin their argument by
discussing the prior Anti-SLAPP motion, the litigation privilege of Civil Code
§47(b), and compulsory cross-complaints. 
Defendants also argue that bifurcation is appropriate
because:
A bifurcation of
the two (Plaintiffs’ and Cross Complainants’) Quiet Title Causes of Action and
the Plaintiffs’ Prescriptive Easement Cause of Action would also facilitate an
expeditious determination of the Cross Complaint’s Trespass Cause of Action, as
it is viable only if the Geragoses do not have a prescriptive easement to use
the Friedlands’ land. For the First Amended Cross Complaint’s Third Cause of
Action for Trespass, the outcome is solely dependent on the determination of
rights of occupancy and use of the land alleged in Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint as Quiet Title and Prescriptive Easement. With regard to the Nuisance
Cause of Action, that claim relates primarily to the removal of survey stakes
and the entrance onto the Friedlands’ property of the Geragoses’ dogs. While
the prescriptive easement determination is not fully dispositive of the
Nuisance Cause of Action, that determination would likely be influential to the
parties as to the importance of pursuing the nuisance damages which could be
claimed.
 
(Ex Parte App. p.4.)
 
The Court notes that
Defendants’ moving papers are, for the most part, unclear, and it is difficult
to glean from the papers Defendants’ argument as to the appropriateness of bifurcation.
 
In Opposition, in
addition to pointing out what the Plaintiffs believe to be procedural
deficiencies, Plaintiffs argue:
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
file a motion to bifurcate. They are requesting this Court permit two separate
trials to proceed on the exact same set of facts, for the same properties at
issue, the same parties, and for which the same witnesses will be called. There
is no justification for subjecting parties, witnesses, counsel, and the Court
to two separate trials. The relief sought is especially concerning because many
of the witnesses over whom the Friedlands have “control” (e.g., their daughter,
their gardener) have mysteriously become “unavailable” when convenient to the
Friedlands at various times during the litigation. They have become available
when the Friedlands believe some benefit can come of their testimony, then
again unavailable when not convenient (e.g., Ashley Friedland, Santos Avlies). 
 
While the
Friedlands contend the purpose of the motion is judicial economy, they fail to
explain how having two separate trials on the same substantive issues and facts
will accomplish that goal. Indeed, logic dictates it will do the opposite,
requiring duplicative testimony, calling the exact same set of witnesses twice,
calling the parties twice, laying the foundation and authenticating documents
and records twice, and restating / re-establishing the same set of facts and
history. In fact, it will result in serious inconsistencies as the same facts
will need to be developed in both trials for all causes of action, much of
which will be through witness testimony. 
 
If granted, the
motion would unduly complicate trial proceedings, excessively lengthen the time
required for trial, and substantially add to the expense of trial. Furthermore,
if granted, the motion will likely create the unneeded expense and time of calling
witnesses multiple times, as well as the duplication of evidence for both
trials. As such, Geragos respectfully requests the Court deny the motion to
bifurcate in its entirety, requiring all causes of action to proceed
concurrently.
 
(Pl. Mot. p. 2.)
 
Overall, the Opposition argues that
bifurcation is inappropriate because the causes of action are all inextricably
intertwined, will require development of the same set of facts at trial by way
of the same documents, witnesses, and other evidence, and two trials would
waste time and judicial resources along with frustrating the legislative intent
of the statutes authorizing bifurcation.
 
In Reply, Movants’ arguments continue to
be difficult to comprehend and are, ultimately, unpersuasive.
 
This is, to take a step back once again, a
neighbor dispute.  This is not a complex
construction case or a tangled multi-party securities or fraud case. 
 
Reasonable observers might come to the
conclusion that this neighbor dispute has already been overlitigated:  The Case was filed in August of 2021, and since
that time there have been numerous motions, ex parte proceedings, etc.
As an example, the Court recently denied an anti-SLAPP motion in this neighbor
dispute.
 
The Court has seen no persuasive argument
as to why the Court should bifurcate this matter.  As to the sequence of matters, in the Court’s
view, jury instructions would make clear that the jury would not proceed to
consider damages as to either party unless liability had been established.  
 
That does not seem to be a novel process,
and the issues in this case are not (in the Court’s view) so complex, novel, or
involved as to require bifurcated proceedings. 
 
This is a case about whether a dog was
walked on a neighbor’s property without authorization, whether stakes were
pulled up by a neighbor without authorization, and other accusations of the
like.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’
motion to bifurcate is DENIED. 
 
The Court does not deny the motion on
procedural grounds. The Opposition argued that this motion should be denied on
procedural grounds based on CRC 3.1112(a), CCP § 1010, and CRC 3.1110. The Opposition
also argued that the notice does not identify any statute on which the moving
papers are based, but the rule cited by Opposition, CRC 3.1110, does not state
the movant must identify the statute the movant is moving under. CRC 3.1110
simply states the notice of motion must state the grounds for issuance of the
order. Further, the Opposition does not cite case law that it is appropriate to
deny a motion on the procedural grounds cited by the Opposition.