 Case Number:  23GDCV02072    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:¿01/05/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV02072
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: NORTH AMERICAN TEXTILE CO., LLC, a
California Limited Liability Company v. HMS MFG CO., a Michigan corporation;
and DOES 1 through 25, inclusive
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO
QUASH SERVICE AND STAY OR DISMISS FOR LACK OF JURISDICTION OR, ALTERNATIVELY,
INCONVENIENT FORUM

¿¿¿
Moving Party:¿  Specially Appearing Defendant, HMS Mfg. Co.
Responding Party: Plaintiff, North American Textile
Co., LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿¿¿
Specially Appearing Defendant, HMS Mfg. Co. moves this Court for an order
quashing the summons issued in this case on the grounds that this Court is not
the proper jurisdiction for this action because the purchase orders that are the basis of the contract between the parties provide
that Michigan courts and Michigan law are the proper forum for the litigation
of any issues that arise between the parties regarding the sale of Plaintiff’s
products, and on the grounds of inconvenient forum, in that Defendant will rely
on witnesses that live and reside in States other than California to defend
itself in this matter, while Plaintiff both contracted with a Michigan
corporation, and also has offices in multiple States in this Country, as well as
facilities in other countries.
This Motion is filed pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure Section 418.10. The Motion will be based on this Notice of
Motion, and on the Memorandum of Points and Authorities and the Declaration of
Janet Sofy filed herewith, together with such evidence as presented therein,
upon all of the papers and records on file in this action, and upon such other
and further oral and documentary evidence as may be presented at the hearing. And
as may be raised in the Reply to any Opposition to this Motion.
 
Procedural
16/21 Day Lapse
(CCP §12c and §1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Ok
 
Moving Papers: Notice; Memo; Sofy Declaration; 
 
Opposition Papers: Opposition; Arslanian Declaration; 
 
Reply: Substitution of Attorney; Reply; Notice of Order to
be admitted pro hac vice
 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, North American
Textile Co., LLC, filed a Complaint on 09/29/2023 alleging four causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Account Stated, (3)Open Book Account,
and (4) Quantum Meruit. 
Plaintiff alleges this
action arises from Defendant entering into written and oral agreements with
Plaintiff, wherein Defendant agreed to purchase RFID stickers from Plaintiff.
(Compl. ¶5.) Plaintiff alleges that per the agreement, Defendant would place
orders with Plaintiff after which Plaintiff would design, manufacture, and
deliver the final products to Defendant. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
failed and refused to perform in accordance with the terms and conditions of
the agreements and that there is presently due and owing from Defendant to
Plaintiff the sum of $290,835.00 plus interest. (Compl ¶12.)
ANALYSIS
Timeliness
CCP § 418.10(a)(1) provides: “A defendant, on or
before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that
the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . .
[t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the
court over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10(a)(1).) 
Defendant states that the instant Complaint was mailed
to Defendant on October 6, 2023 from California and that because the service
was made by mail to an out-of-state entity, pursuant to CCP §415.40, the filing
of this motion is made before the last day of its time to plead.
The Court notes that Defendant’s explanation as to how
the instant motion is timely is unclear because Defendant doesn’t explicitly
state or explain how the instant motion is timely. 
CCP §415.40 states, “A summons may be served on a
person outside this state in any manner provided by this article or by sending
a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, requiring a return receipt. Service of a
summons by this form of mail is deemed complete on the 10th day after such
mailing.”
Since Defendant was served by mail at an address
outside California, presumably Defendant is arguing that service of Defendant
was deemed complete on October 16, 2023. 
“ Except as otherwise required by statute, a
summons shall be directed to the defendant, signed by the clerk and issued
under the seal of the court in which the action is pending, and it shall
contain: (3) A direction that the defendant file with the court a written
pleading in response to the complaint within 30 days after summons is served on
him or her.” (CCP §412.20(a)(3).)
The instant motion appears to have been served on
November 13, 2023, therefore, to this Court this motion appears untimely
because it was not filed until November 17, 2023. It appears that if
service is deemed complete on October 16, 2023, then the 30th day to
respond would be November 14, 2023, and 412.20(a)(3) mentions the date of
filing, not the date of serving. 
However, since the Opposition does not assert any
arguments that this motion is untimely, the Court finds the instant motion
timely.
Forum Selection Clause
“The
procedure for enforcing a forum selection clause is a motion to stay or dismiss
for forum non conveniens.” (Olinick v. BMG Entertainment (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 1286, 1294 citing Berg v. MTC Electronic Technologies (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358.)
Defendant argues that quashing the summons in this
case is appropriate on the grounds that this Court is not the proper
jurisdiction for this action because the Purchase Orders that are the basis of
the contract between the parties provide that Michigan courts and Michigan law
are the proper forum for the litigation of any issues that arise between the
parties regarding the sale of Plaintiff’s products, and on the grounds of
inconvenient forum, in that Defendant will rely on witnesses that live and
reside in States other than California to defend itself in this matter, while
Plaintiff both contracted with a Michigan corporation, and also has offices in
multiple States in this Country, as well as facilities in other countries.
As explained below, the Court does not find
Defendant’s argument convincing.
Defendant cites Paragraph 15 of its Purchase Orders
which provides that resultant litigation would take place in Michigan and not
in California. Defendant argues that the Purchase Orders attached as Exhibit A
in the Sofy Declaration are the Purchase Orders that are the contracts between
the parties to this action. Further, Defendant cites Olnick v. BMG
Entertainment (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1286, Berg v. MTC Electronic Technologies
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 349, and Nedlloyd Lines B.V. v. Superior Court
(1992) 3 Cal.4th 459 to argue that forum-selection clauses are enforceable, and
that since the parties plainly and in clear language chose Michigan as the
proper forum for adjudication of the disputes arising from the contract, the
instant forum selection clause if enforceable.
The Opposition points out that the Purchase Orders
that Defendant attached in moving Exhibit A of the Sofy Declaration are not
signed by Plaintiff. 
Further, in Opposition, Plaintiff argues that it is not
the Purchase Orders that form the contract(s) in which this lawsuit it based,
but it is the Pro Forma Invoices/Order Acknowledgements which were the
operative agreements in the instant lawsuit.
In Opposition, in Exhibit A of the Arslanaian
Declaration, Plaintiff attaches documents that have the typed words “Proforma
Invoice” crossed out with a blue pen and “Order Acknowledgement,” written by
pen in blue above the typed words “Proforma Invoice.” [Hereinafter referred to
as Order Acknowledgements.]
In the Arslanian Declaration, Plaintiff argues that
HMS acknowledged the orders and by its authorized agents signature, it
expressly agreed to the terms and conditions of NATCO. (Arslanaian Decl. ¶6.)
Plaintiff argues that by Defendant signing the Order
Acknowledgments, Defendant expressly accepted the terms and conditions of
Plaintiff’s agreements which provide for a mandatory forum selection clause in
California, thus Plaintiff argues that Defendant expressly agreed to the
jurisdiction of California courts.
Here, the Court finds Plaintiff’s argument convincing,
but it also finds it necessary to further clarify a few issues.
The Court notes that in Plaintiff’s Complaint in ¶5,
Plaintiff alleges that it entered into written and oral agreements with Defendant.
While ¶5 of the Complaint refers to Plaintiff’s invoices, Plaintiff does not
make it entirely clear in its Complaint what the written contract(s) or oral
contract(s) are that provide a basis for its breach of contract claims. It
appears that Plaintiff is basing the breach of contract claims on the invoices
that are attached to its Complaint; however, it is unclear. As Defendant did
not demur, these issues are not before the Court at the moment. 
The reason the Court makes this clarification is
because in Opposition, Plaintiff appears to be arguing that the Order
Acknowledgements are the basis for its breach-of-contract claims. The Order
Acknowledgements in Opposition appear to be similar to the Invoices in the
Complaint, except the Order Acknowledgments appear to have signatures. Further,
the Court notes that it is not stating what is or is not the contract(s) in
this lawsuit. The Court is noting this because the basis for its ruling to deny
this motion is that the Plaintiff at the very least attached signed Order
Acknowledgements, and Defendant in Reply did not argue that it did not sign the
signed Order Acknowledgements that Plaintiff submitted.
Beneath the signatures by the Defendant in the Order
Acknowledgements, the following language can be found:
Purchaser is
responsible for inspecting the goods within ten (10) calendar days of delivery
to assure that specifications have been met prior to utilizing and/or
incorporating NATCO products for its own purposes “Delivery” shall be satisfied
in accordance with Paragraph 8 of the complete terms and conditions of this
agreement. If NATCO products fail to meet specifications, Purchaser may return
the non-conforming products for replacement or credit within 10 calendar days
of delivery, only with written approval by an officer of NATCO. In no event
will NATCO be responsible for incidental, consequential, or other damages,
including but not limited to, lost profits, goodwill, additional freight or any
other compensatory damages and attorney’s fees other than credit or
replacement.
 
DISCLAIMER: THERE
ARE NO WARRANTIES THAT EXTEND BEYOND THE DESCRIPTION OF THE GOODS PROVIDED ON
THE FACE OF THIS CONTRACT. SELLER DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTY OF ANY OTHER KIND,
INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY THAT THE GOODS ARE MERCHANTIBLE OR FIT FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. Replacement of the defective goods constitutes NATCO’s sole liability
and the exclusive remedy for any claim relating to the goods. NATCO will not be
liable for incidental or consequential damages even if NATCO’s attempt to
repair the defect fails but In such a case the Purchaser will be entitled to a
refund of monies paid to NATCO under this contract.
 
 
In no event shall
NATCO’s total liability with respect to any contract exceed the purchase price
of the products upon which liability is based. To view the Limited Liability
clause of this agreement in its entirety refer to Paragraph 15 of the complete
terms and conditions. To view the Limited Warranty clause of this agreement in
its entirety, refer to Paragraph 20 of the complete terms and conditions.
 
To view the
complete terms and conditions of this agreement visit
www.natcoglobal.com/legal.
 
(Arslanian Decl.
Ex. A.)
 
While the signed Order
Acknowledgements do not have the forum selection clauses on the signed Order
Acknowledgments themselves, the Order Acknowledgments cite to the website that
allegedly has the complete terms and conditions of the agreement. 
 
Plaintiff points to ¶1 of
NATCO Terms and Conditions that can be found on the website which states:
 
1.     
PURCHASER's Acceptance of Agreement.
PURCHASER has read and understands the terms of this sales agreement (the
"Agreement") and, by ordering goods from North American Textile
Company, LLC, a California limited liability company (hereinafter referred to
as "NATCO"), PURCHASER accepts all of the terms and conditions of
this Agreement, which shall apply to all purchases of goods by PURCHASER from
NATCO. Any additional terms not contained herein shall not be considered as
part of this Agreement, unless expressly assented to in writing by an officer
of NATCO or set forth on the ProForma Invoice or an official document prepared
by NATCO.
 
(Arslanian Decl. Ex. B,
¶1.)
 
Further, Plaintiff points
to ¶18 of NATCO Terms and Conditions that can be found on the website which
states:
 
18. Governing Law.
This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of California (including without limitation Division
2 of the California Uniform Commercial Code), without regard to its conflicts
of law principles. In the event of any dispute, claim or controversy arising
out of or otherwise relating to this Agreement or regarding the interpretation
or enforcement hereof, the matter shall be resolved exclusively by the State
Courts of the State of California in Los Angeles County, California, or the
U.S. District Courts for the Central District of California. PURCHASER hereby
consents to the jurisdiction of the State of California with respect to all
claims, disputes, contracts, interpretations, or remedies of every kind and
actions arising out of or relating to this Agreement.
 
(Id.)
 
Further, Plaintiff refers
to a portion of ¶19 which states in relevant part, “the terms of this agreement
shall control regardless of whether or when PURCHASER has submitted its own
offer, counteroffer, contract, confirmation, acknowledgment or other writing.”
(Id.)
 
As stated in Olinick:
 
“Although not even a
‘mandatory’ forum selection clause can completely eliminate a court's
discretion to make appropriate rulings regarding choice of forum, the modern
trend is to enforce mandatory forum selection clauses unless they are unfair or
unreasonable. [Citations.] ... [¶] If there is no mandatory forum selection
clause, a forum non conveniens motion ‘requires the weighing of a gamut of
factors of public and private convenience....’ [Citation.] However if
there is a mandatory forum selection clause, the test is simply whether
application of the clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the clause is
usually given effect. Claims that the previously chosen forum is unfair or
inconvenient are generally rejected. [Citation.] A court will usually honor a
mandatory forum selection clause without extensive analysis of factors relating
to convenience. [Citation.] ‘ “Mere inconvenience or additional expense is not
the test of unreasonableness ...” ’ of a mandatory forum selection clause.
[Citation.]''
 
(Olnick v. BMG
Entertainment (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1294.)
 
Here, the Court plans to
DENY Defendant’s motion. 
 
Plaintiff appears to
point to mandatory forum-selection clauses that Defendant agreed to by signing
the Order Acknowledgments. While Defendant argues that the Purchase Orders
contained the mandatory forum-selection clauses, Defendant’s Purchase Orders
were not signed. Therefore, the Court is not saying what is or is not the
contract(s) at issue in the case, but at the very least, the Court can tell that
Defendant’s Purchase Orders with forum-selection clauses are not signed, whereas
the Order Acknowledgments submitted by Plaintiff are signed by Defendant.
 
In Reply, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s forum-selection clause says nothing about California or
jurisdiction of disputes; however, that is incorrect as Plaintiff pointed the
Court to ¶18 of Plaintiff’s Terms and Conditions. 
 
Further, although the
Reply attempts to argue that the forum-selection clause was hidden because it
was not on the actual signed document and instead was instead found on a
website that was cited on the signed document, the Court does not find this
argument persuasive. First, the Defendant cites no appropriate authority that
this cannot be done by Plaintiff. In Reply, Defendant cites Szetela v.
Discover Bank (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1094 and appears to be arguing that the
forum-selection clause was hidden, unreferenced, and in contradiction to the
Purchase Orders. However, this argument is unavailing because the Purchase
Orders are not signed and the citation to Szetela is inapposite. Szetela
pertains to an arbitration clause, not a forum-selection clause. Further, even
if Szetela was on point, Defendant did not address both substantive and
procedural unconscionability. 
 
Inconvenient Forum
 
Although moving and reply
papers also argue that California is a legally inconvenient forum for a myriad
of reasons, the Court does not find these arguments availing. 
 
“However if there is a
mandatory forum selection clause, the test is simply whether application of the
clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the clause is
usually given effect. Claims that the previously chosen forum is unfair or
inconvenient are generally rejected. [Citation.] A court will usually honor a
mandatory forum selection clause without extensive analysis of factors relating
to convenience. [Citation.] ‘ “Mere inconvenience or additional expense is not
the test of unreasonableness ...” ’ of a mandatory forum selection clause.
[Citation.]''” (Olnick v. BMG Entertainment (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1286,
1294.)
 
Since Defendant agreed to
a mandatory forum selection clause, and since the Court does not find it unfair
or unreasonable, Defendant’s motion is DENIED. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s
motion to quash service of summons on the grounds that jurisdiction is not
proper in California but instead proper in Michigan because of Defendant’s
forum selection clause is DENIED. 
 
The agreements submitted
by Defendant were not signed. Plaintiff submitted signed Order Acknowledgements
that were signed by Defendant that contained a forum-selection clause. Although
the forum-selection clause was not directly on the signed document, the signed
document referred to the website where the complete terms and conditions of the
agreement could be found, which contained a forum-selection clause. 
 
Further, Defendant cited
not authority which stated that Plaintiff’s forum-selection clauses were
legally inappropriate. Further, the Reply did not argue that Defendant did not
sign Plaintiff’s Order Acknowledgments. The Court is not commenting on what is
or is not the contract(s) that form the basis of Plaintiff’s Complaint. The
Court is simply stating that based on the evidence before it, Plaintiff, and
not Defendant, appeared to have the valid forum-selection clause.
 
 
 
 
 
 