 Case Number:  23GDCV01007    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 01/05/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV01007
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: JUSTIN NOVEL, an individual; v. PORSCHE CARS NORTH AMERICA, INC., a
Delaware Corporation, and DOES 1-10 inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Moving Party: Defendant, Porsche Cars North America,
Inc. (Defendant or Porsche)
Responding Party: Plaintiff, 
Moving Papers: Notice; Memorandum; Proposed Order;
Proof of Service; Request for Judicial Notice; Michel Declaration
Opposing Papers: No Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
CCP §1290.4 is not applicable.
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant,
Porsche Cars North America, Inc., moves this Court for an order to compel
arbitration of this controversy and to stay the above-captioned action.
 
This Motion to Compel
Arbitration (“Motion”) is made pursuant to the arbitration notice and
provisions set forth in the “Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement - Closed-End –
California” (With Arbitration Provision) (“Lease Agreement”) agreed to by
Plaintiff Justin Novel (“Plaintiff”), as well as the Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”) 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq., the California Arbitration Act
("CAA"), and California Code of Civil Procedure section 1280, et
seq. Said authority requires Plaintiff to submit to arbitration any controversy
upon determination that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.
Accordingly, Defendant respectfully requests that this Court order this matter
to binding arbitration pursuant to the arbitration provision in the Lease
Agreement. On the aforementioned date and time, Defendant will also move, and
does hereby move the Court, pursuant to 9 U.S.C. § 3 and California Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281.4, to stay the above-captioned lawsuit until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the Court specifies.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Justin Novel,
filed a Complaint on 05/16/2023 against Porsche Cars North America, Inc., a
Delaware Corporation. The Complaint alleges three causes of action: (1) Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act
Section 1793.2. 
 
The instant motion
pertains to whether or not Defendant, Porsche Cars North America, Inc., a
nonsignatory to the “Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement – Closed End – California”
(Lease Agreement), can compel arbitration even though Plaintiff, Justin Novel,
and non-party Beverly Hills Porsche, were the two entities that signed the
Lease Agreement that contained the arbitration provision.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION
CCP
§1281.2, governing orders to arbitrate controversies, provides in pertinent
part:
On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)  
The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)  
Grounds
exist for recission of the agreement.
 
(CCP §1281.2(a)-(b).
 
Under
the Federal Arbitration Act, arbitration agreements “shall be valid,
irrevocable and enforceable, save upon such grounds that exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of a contract.” 
(9 U.S.C. section 2.) 
 
There
is a strong public policy in favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts
concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of
arbitration. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9
(“courts will ‘indulge every intendment to give effect to such proceedings.’”)
(quotation omitted)). (See also AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Porsche
attaches as Exhibit A to the Michel Declaration, a “Motor Vehicle Lease
Agreement – Closed End – California” (Lease Agreement). This Lease Agreement is
executed between Lessee, Justin Novel, and Lessor, Beverly Hills Porsche (a
non-party to the instant lawsuit).
The Lease Agreement contains an arbitration provision
that provides in relevant part: 
29.
ARBITRATION. This Section does not apply to any dispute in which the amount in
controversy is within the Jurisdiction limits of, and is filed in, a small
claims court, and you and we retain rights to self-help remedies, such as
repossession. You agree that if a dispute of any kind arises out of this
agreement, either you or we can choose to have that dispute resolved by binding
arbitration, if arbitration is chosen by any party, neither you nor we will
have the right to litigate that claim in court or to have a jury trial on that
claim, or to engage in pre-arbitration discovery, except as provided for in the
arbitration rules. In addition, you will not have the right to participate as a
representative or member of any class of claimants pertaining to any claim
subject to arbitration. The arbitrator’s decision will generally be final and
binding. Other rights that you would have if you went to court may also not be
available in arbitration. It is Important that you read this entire arbitration
provision carefully before accepting the terms of this agreement. 
 
Any
claim, dispute or controversy (whether in contract, regulatory, tort, or
otherwise, whether pre-existing, present or future and including
constitutional, statutory, common law, intentional tort and equitable claims)
arising from or relating to (a) the credit or services offered or provided to
you, (b) the actions of you, us or third parties or (c) its validity of this
arbitration provision (individually and collectively, a "Claim")
must, after an election by you or us, be resolved by binding arbitration in
accordance with tills arbitration provision and the Commercial Arbitration
Rules of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") in effect when
the Claim is filed (or, in the event this arbitrator or these arbitration rules
are no longer available, then a comparable substitute arbitration procedure
and/or arbitration organization that does business on a nationwide basis).
There shall be no authority for any Claims to be arbitrated on a class action
basis. An arbitration can only decide our or your Claim and may hot consolidate
or join the claims of other persons who may have similar claims. You may obtain
rules and forms by contacting the AAA at 800-778-7879 orwww.adr.org. Any
arbitration hearing that you attend will take place in the federal judicial district
where you reside. At your request, we will advance the filing and hearing fees
for any Claim you may file against us; the arbitrator will decide whether we or
you will ultimately pay those fees. The arbitrator shall apply applicable
substantive law consistent with the Federal Arbitration Act and applicable
statutes of limitations, and shall honor claims of privilege recognized at law.
 
Judgment
upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction. This arbitration provision shall survive repayment of your
extension of credit and termination of your account: This arbitration provision
shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1, et seq. If any
provision of this Section is ruled invalid or unenforceable, this Section shall
be rendered null and void in its entirety.
 
(Michel
Decl. ¶2, Ex. B.)
 
 
On
the first page of the Lease Agreement, “You” is defined as the Lessee and any
Co-Lessee; and “we,” “us,” and “our” is defined as the Lessor and USB Leasing
LT or its successors and assigns (“Assignee”), to whom this Motor Vehicle Lease
Agreement will be assigned.
 
Here,
the Lessee is Plaintiff, Justin Novel, and the Lessor is Beverly Hills Porsche,
who is not a party to the instant lawsuit.

Porsche
moves to compel arbitration under the Lease Agreement despite the fact that it
is a non-signatory to the Lease Agreement. Porsche moves to compel arbitration
under the theory of equitable estoppel. Further, Porsche argues that this Court
should follow Felisilda instead of Ochoa because Felisilda is
better reasoned than Ochoa.
Here, the Court does not find Movant’s argument to be
availing. Although no Opposition was submitted, the Court notes the following
from Rosenthal:
Instead, when a
petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence
of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must
determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement
is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because the existence of the agreement is
a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the
burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence. If the
party opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the
execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or
revocation (see § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b))—that party bears the
burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.
 
(Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
The Court finds that Movant did not prove
the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence
because Movant submitted a Lease Agreement that was not signed by the moving Defendant.
 
Further, although no Opposition was
submitted, the Court is aware of several cases that don’t support Movant’s
arguments. One example of those cases would be the Ochoa case that
Movant cites. [The Court notes that the Ochoa case is also known as the Ford
Motor Warranty Cases.]
 
Therefore, this Court does not find Porsche’s
arguments on equitable estoppel availing in light of: (1) Ford Motor
Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, rev. granted, (Ford Motor
Warranty Cases) (2) Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 958, rev. granted, (Montemayor) and (3) Kielar v.
Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, rev. granted. 
Although Porsche cites to Felisilda v. FCA US LLC
(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, this Court notes it is following Ford Motor
Warranty Cases, rev. granted. “Of course, the rule under discussion has no
application where there is more than one appellate court decision, and such
appellate decisions are in conflict. In such a situation, the court exercising
inferior jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting
decisions.” (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.)
This Court finds that the Ford Motor Warranty Cases
are better reasoned and the instant set of facts distinguishable from Felisilda.
Ford Motor Warranty Cases and Montemayor adequately and
extensively explain why Movant’s arguments on equitable estoppel are
inapplicable and distinguishable in the instant scenario. Movant here, Porsche,
is not a party to the Lease Agreement in the instant case. 
Moreover, Ford Motor and Montemayor are
Second District cases, while Felisilda is a Third District case.
[This Court notes that Ford Motor Warranty Cases,
Montemayor, and Kielar v. Superior Court all state, “Review
granted. See Cal Rules of Court 8.1105 and 8.1115 (and corresponding Comment,
par. 2, concerning rule 8.1115(e)(3).”]
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
Request for Judicial Notice by Defendant
Under
Evidence Code §452:  
Judicial notice
may be taken of the following matters to the extent that they are not embraced
within Section 451:
(a) The
decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the United States
and the resolutions and private acts of the Congress of the United States and
of the Legislature of this state.
(b) Regulations
and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United
States or any public entity in the United States.
(c) Official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States.
(d) Records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States.
(e) Rules of
court of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United
States or of any state of the United States.
(f) The law
of an organization of nations and of foreign nations and public entities in
foreign nations.
(g) Facts and
propositions that are of such common knowledge within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be the subject of
dispute.
(h) Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.
 
(Ibid..)
 
Under Evidence Code 453:
 
The trial court
shall take judicial notice of any matter specified in Section 452 if a party
requests it and:
(a) Gives
each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or
otherwise, to enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the request; and
(b) Furnishes
the court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial notice of
the matter.
 
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of: 
1. Plaintiff Justin Novel’s Complaint in this action,
a true and correct copy which is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 