 Case Number:  22STCV15044    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARTHA MALDONADO LUNA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  BARAAT MOLLER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV15044  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 11, 2023   I.  Background Plaintiff, Martha Maldonado Luna (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants, Baraat Moller and Curtis Dailey (“Defendants”) for damages arising from an automobile accident.   At this time, Defendants move to compel non-party Heights Surgical Institute (“Heights Surgical”) to produce its billing person most knowledgeable (“PMK”) and produce documents pursuant to a deposition subpoena served on Heights Surgical, and for monetary sanctions. The motion is unopposed.  II. Legal Standard Procedural Per CRC 3.1346, when moving to compel a non-party to comply with a deposition subpoena, all moving papers must be served on the non-party by personal service. Defendants’ proof of service shows Heights Surgical was personally served with the motion. Therefore, the Court will consider the motion on the merits.  Deposition Subpoena (Non-Party) The service of a deposition notice, pursuant to CCP § 2025.240, is effective to require any party deponent to attend, testify, and produce materials for inspection at a deposition.  (CCP § 2025.280(a).)  To require the attendance and testimony of a non-party deponent, as well as his or her production of any document or tangible thing for inspection and copying, the party seeking discovery must serve on that deponent a deposition subpoena, pursuant CCP § 2020.010, et seq.  (CCP §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); See also Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1350 [discovery from nonparties is governed by CCP §§ 2020.010, et seq., and is primarily carried out by way of subpoena].)   Defendants assert Plaintiff claims $147,500 in medical treatment at Heights Surgical for injuries arising from this automobile accident case. On April 24, 2023, Defendants subpoenaed Heights Surgical’s PMK of billing practices and procedures. On May 14, 2023, counsel for Heights Surgical confirmed that the deposition would move forward as noticed. However, Heights Surgical’s counsel requested the deposition be rescheduled to June 7, 2023. Defense counsel advised that date would not work and requested Heights Surgical to provide alternative dates, but Heights Surgical did not respond. On September 14, 2023, defense counsel emailed Heights Surgical’s counsel requesting alternative deposition dates, and no dates or contact has been made as of the date of the motion’s filing.  In this case, Defendants aver Heights Surgical’s billing PMK’s testimony is directly relevant to this action because Plaintiff received treatment at this facility and claims medical expenses arising from the incident. Further, counsel for Heights Surgical had agreed to the deposition, but failed to produce the billing PMK. There is no evidence of any objection filed to the deposition subpoena, nor has a motion to quash or opposition to this motion been filed. Therefore, the motion to compel compliance with the deposition subpoena is GRANTED. The billing PMK for Heights Surgical is ordered to appear for deposition at a date and time to be noticed by Defendants. Defendants must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service). Pursuant to CCP § 2025.310, at the election of Defendants, the deposition is to be completed remotely. Sanctions are mandatory.  (CCP § 2025.480(j).)  Defendants request sanctions in the amount of $780 against Heights Surgical.  Defendants are awarded two hours for preparing the motion and one hour for appearing at the hearing all at the reasonable rate of $180 per hour, for a total attorney’s fees award of $540. Further, Defendants are awarded the motion filing fee of $60 as costs. Sanctions are sought and imposed against Heights Surgical Institute. Heights Surgical Institute is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $600, within twenty (20) days.   Defendants are ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 8th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    