 Case Number:  23TRCV01143    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
ALLY
  BANK,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04143




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
NATIONAL
  TRANSPORTATION INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 15,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Ally Bank
Responding
Party:                  None
Application for Writ
of Possession
            
The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The application for writ of
possession is GRANTED.  See Order on
CD-120 to be submitted by plaintiff.
BACKGROUND
            On December 12, 2023, plaintiff Ally
Bank filed a complaint against defendants National Transportation Inc., John
Eldon Kindt, and Jim Gleich for (1) claim and delivery of personal property,
for pre-trial writ of possession, and order directing transfer of personal
property and restraining order, and (2) money due on a contract.  Plaintiff alleges that it is the holder of a
first priority security interest in a 2017 Ford Transit Wagon motor vehicle, which
defendant National Transportation Inc. purchased from plaintiff’s
assignor.  Plaintiff alleges that the
contract is in default in that defendant failed to make a payment due and owing
February 12, 2022, in the amount of $584.78 or any of the regular monthly
payments due thereafter.  There is
currently due, owing, and unpaid to plaintiff the sum of $28,535.86, together
with other charges as provided in the contract. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP §512.010 sets forth the
requirements in an application for writ of possession.  CCP §512.010(b) states: “The application
shall be executed under oath and shall include all of the following:   (1) A
showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's
claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
            (2)
A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the
manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the reason for the detention.
            (3)
A particular description of the property and a statement of its value.
            (4)
A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there.
            (5)
A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property
of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure.”
CCP §512.040(b) states:  “The writ will be issued if the court finds
that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other requirements for issuing
the writ are established.  The hearing is
not for the purpose of determining whether the claim is actually valid.  The determination of the actual validity of
the claim will be made in subsequent proceedings in the action and will not be
affected by the decision at the hearing on the application for the writ.” 
CCP §511.090 states:  A “claim has probable validity where it is
more likely than not that plaintiff will obtain judgment against defendant on
that claim.”
            Further, “[a]t the hearing, the
court shall make its determinations upon the basis of the pleadings and other
papers in the record; but, upon good cause shown, the court may receive and
consider additional evidence and authority produced at the hearing or may
continue the hearing for the production of such additional evidence, oral or
documentary, or the filing of other affidavits or points and authorities.”  CCP §512.050.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession
for subject 2017 Ford Transit Wagon motor vehicle, Vehicle Identification No. 1FBAX2CM2HKB26861,
with an average wholesale value of $26,550 and retail value of $31,875.
            The court finds that the application
complies with the requirements set forth in CCP §512.010.  See James Singleton decl.  Plaintiff has met its burden to establish the
probable validity of its claim. 
            Plaintiff is not required to post an
undertaking as defendants have no positive interest in the vehicle.  As of the date of the complaint, there is
due, owing, and unpaid the sum of $28,535.86, which exceeds the wholesale value.  Pursuant to CCP §515.020, the amount of
defendants’ undertaking is set at $28,535. 

            The application is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The application is GRANTED.
See Order on CD-120 to be submitted
by plaintiff.
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.