  Case Number:  22TRCV01573    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CYNTHIA
  A. BLANKS, as trustee,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01573




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DEVANAND
  SHARMA AKA FRANK MARTINI,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 15, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Cynthia A. Blanks, as trustee
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Devanand Sharma aka Frank Martini
Motion
to Order to Deposit in Court
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
            On December 22, 2022, plaintiff
Cynthia A. Blanks, as trustee of The Cynthia A. Blanks Revocable Trust #2 and
as trustee of The Seanjay Ramanand Sharma Revocable Trust filed a complaint
against Devanand Sharma aka Frank Martini (and nominal defendants 4200 West
Century Associates, 4229 West 101st Street Associates, and 4223
Associates) for (1) declaratory relief and (2) accounting. 
            On March 1, 2023, defendant
(self-represented) filed a cross-complaint against Cynthia A. Blanks, Seanjay
R. Sharma, Kamelia Yagadari, and Satanand Sharma for (1) breach of fiduciary
duty, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and dealing, (3) fraud, (4)
conversion, (5) constructive trust, (6) accounting, (7) quiet title action, (8)
methodone clinics purchased with defendant’s property, and (9) declaratory
relief.
            On September 19, 2023,
cross-defendant filed a FACC for (1) declaratory relief and (2) accounting.
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant
to CCP §572, plaintiff and cross-defendant Cynthia Blanks, in her capacity as
trustee, requests an order to deposit with the court all future rent payments
to nominal defendants pending resolution of the declaratory relief action. 
            The complaint alleges that
plaintiff Cindy Blanks was married to Satanand Sharma (“Stan Sharma”) who
passed away in 2016, and was the mother of Seanjay Ramanand Sharma (“Sean
Sharma”) who passed away in 2022.  Complaint,
¶10.  Defendant Martini was Stan Sharma’s
brother and Blanks’ brother-in-law, and Sean Sharma’s uncle.  Id., ¶11. 
Stan Sharma, Sean Sharma, and defendant were parties of each of the
above properties.  Stan Sharma’s interest
in each of the nominal defendants is held by The Blanks Trust.  Id., ¶12. 
The Blanks Trust, Sean Sharma, and Martini were parties in the nominal
defendants when Sean Sharma passed away in 2022.  Sean Sharma’s interest is now held by the
Sharma Trust.  Id., ¶13.  Blanks is trustee of both trusts.  Id., ¶¶12-13. 
Nominal defendants each own a single adjoining parcel of real
property.  A hotel, which is leased to a
third party, is located on all three adjoining parcels.  Id., ¶14.
            The complaint further alleges that
despite signing documents which confirm that each nominal defendant is owned by
three partners and that Martini holds no more than a 49% ownership interest in
each nominal defendant, Martini has recently taken the position that he owns
100% of the partnership interests in each of the nominal defendants.  Id., ¶21. 
Martini has refused to sign bank documents for the nominal defendants
that identify any other partners.  His
refusal to sign these bank documents has placed the nominal defendants at risk
of default on their loans.  Id.,
¶22.  Martini has also been collecting
all of the rents on the hotel.  He has
been paying himself with the rent payments rather than paying the mortgage for
the properties or paying the apportioned amounts of any profits from the rent
to his partners.  Id., ¶23.  
Under the first cause of action for
declaratory relief, plaintiff seeks a judicial determination that the Sharma
Trust has a 2% general partnership interest, and that the Blanks Trust and
Martini each has a 49% limited partnership interest in each of the nominal
defendants.  Id., ¶27.  Under the second cause of action for
accounting, plaintiff alleges that defendants owe a duty to provide an
accounting to plaintiff of the rents and profits that defendants have collected
on behalf of each of the nominal defendants. 
Id., ¶29.  Defendants have never
accounted for the rents and profits they received which were and are continuing
to be wrongfully withheld from the bank and defendants’ partners.  Id., ¶30. 
Due to defendants’ wrongful taking of rent and profits that should have
been used to pay the bank loans and/or paid to their partners, the bank loans
are in danger of default and defendants’ partners have been unable to use or
invest those rents and profits.  Id.,
¶31.
            Under CCP §572, “When it is admitted
by the pleadings, or shown upon the examination of a party to the action, that
he or she has in his or her possession, or under his or her control, any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation, is
held by him or her as trustee for another party, or which belongs or which is
due to another party or which should, under the circumstances of the case be
held by the court pending final disposition of the action, the court may order
the same, upon motion, to be deposited in court or delivered to such party,
upon those conditions that may be just, subject to the further direction of the
court.”
            Plaintiff
contends that defendant receives rent payments each month in the amount of
$40,000 from nonparty lessee 4200 Inglewood Entertainment LLC that belong to
nominal defendants, that the rent payments are the subject of the litigation,
and defendant is refusing to give the rent payments to the nominal defendants
or use those proceeds to pay necessary expenses of the property, such as taxes,
which is $386,195, and increasing. 
Plaintiff asserts that she is “rightfully concerned that Martini is
using the rent proceeds—which belong to the Nominal Defendants—to pay his personal
expenses, and that this money will be gone by the time the Court resolves this
declaratory relief action as to the partnership percentage held by each
partner.”  
            In
opposition, defendant argues that plaintiff is improperly using “this limited
procedure as a substitute for trial on the merits, a writ of attachment, or
summary adjudication” and produces no admissible evidence to support her
assertions.  Defendant also asserts that
plaintiff Banks does not have standing to seek relief because according to her
own documents, the general partner of 4223 was Agin Enterprises, LLC; the last
general partner of records for 4229 is Americal Management; and 4200’s last
general partner was Seanjay; and thus, two of the three putative general
partners are not represented in the motion or moving for relief.  Defendant also asserts that six years prior
to Stan Sharma’s death in 2016, he gave back his purported stake in the
entities to defendant Martini, “in exchange for payment of money that Stan
desperately needed to float his other enterprises.”  Defendant also argues that “many of the
corporate documents produced by Plaintiff are either forgeries or patently
altered documents.”  
            In
reply, plaintiff argues that she has established all three elements under CCP §572:  absent a court order, future rent payments to
nominal defendants will be in defendant’s possession or under his control; the
rent payments are “the subject of litigation”; and the rent payments belong to
nominal defendants, not defendant. 
Plaintiff also argues that she has standing as trustee of the general
partner (Seanjay Trust) of each nominal defendants, “which is unaffected by the
alleged quitclaim deeds for certain limited partner interests.  
            The
court rules as follows:  A subject of the
litigation is rent payments, but only to the extent that plaintiff is seeking
an accounting for rent that has been collected. There is no allegation as to
future rent payments.  See second cause
of action.
The
purported Operating Lease Agreement states that 4200 Inglewood Entertainment
LLC is the lessee and the three limited partnerships (which are the herein nominal
defendants) are collectively, “Lessor.”  Seanjay
Sharma is identified as the general partner of each nominal defendant on the
signature page of the lease agreement, but it is the three limited partnerships
that are the Lessor.  Article 3.1 states
that “Lessee shall pay to Lessor . . . at Lessor’s address set forth in Section
24.9 hereof or at such other place or to such other Person as Lessor from time
to time may designate in a Notice, all Rent, . . .”  The court notes that the copy provided of the
lease agreement is redacted as to the address of Lessor at section 24.9.  In any event, both parties acknowledge that
the lessee is delivering the rent payments to defendant (who is identified in
the lease agreement as general manager), and purportedly on behalf of nominal
defendants.  As to future rent payments,
they are not in defendant’s possession or control as they have not been
paid.  The court notes that if the court
orders that the rent payments be deposited with the court, the funds will be unavailable
to be used for taxes or rent, for example, pending completion of the
litigation.
The
motion is thus DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.