  Case Number:  22CHCV01324    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER WITH  MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 22CHCV01324    Demurrer with Motion to  Strike Filed: 8/28/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack  (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Nicole Youssef; and James Youssef (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs to Plaintiffs’ entire second amended complaint (“SAC”). Defendant also  seeks an order striking Plaintiffs’ references to punitive damages in the SAC.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled and the motion to strike is denied.  Defendant to file its answer to Plaintiffs’ SAC within 20 days.    REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE: Defendant’s  request for judicial notice is granted. Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice  is granted.   Defendant is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended  General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing  documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set  forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly  bookmarking declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Plaintiffs are  reminded that “except in a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no  opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule  3.1113(d).)   Failure to comply with these requirements in the future may  result in papers being rejected, matters being placed off calendar, matters  being continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance with these  requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition of  sanctions. // // // // BACKGROUND      On 8/30/23,  Defendant filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 11/20/23,  Plaintiffs filed their oppositions. On 11/28/23, Defendant filed its reply.   DEMURRER   Here, Defendant  demurs to Plaintiffs’ entire SAC on the basis that Plaintiffs fail¿to allege  facts sufficient to¿state¿either of the causes of action therein.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Defendant’s counsel declares that on 8/8/23, he sent  Plaintiffs’ counsel an email in an attempt to meet and confer regarding the issues  raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike. (Decl. of Andrew M.  Jacobson, ¶ 3.) On 8/9/23, counsel for the parties further met and conferred  telephonically, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Ibid.)  Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary  meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a).   B.     Legal  Malpractice   “An attorney will normally be held  liable for malpractice only to the client with whom the attorney stands in  privity of contract, and not to third parties.” (Borissoff v. Taylor &  Faust (2004) 33 Cal.4th 523, 529.) Generally, an attorney-client  relationship is created by an express or implied contract.  (Koo v.  Rubio's Restaurants, Inc. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 719, 729; Nichols v.  Keller (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1672, 1684.)  Regarding express  contracts, the existence of an attorney-client relationship is a question of  law.  (Meehan v. Hopps (1956) 144 Cal.App.2d 284, 287, 301.)   However, an implied-in-fact attorney-client relationship is based on the facts  and circumstances of each case.  (See Miller v. Metzinger (1979) 91  Cal.App.3d 31, 39; Hecht v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 560,  565-566.)      An implied attorney-client  relationship can arise by inference from the conduct of the parties—neither a  fee payment nor a formal agreement is required.  (E.g., Lister v. State  Bar (1990) 51 Cal.3d 1117, 1126.)  The parties' intent and conduct are  critical to the formation of an implied-in-fact attorney-client  relationship.  (Hecht, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at 565.)     Here, it is  undisputed that no express agreement for legal representation exists between  the Plaintiffs and Defendant. Defendant therefore argues that “Plaintiffs cannot  establish that EL&L owed Plaintiffs a duty ‘to use such skill, prudence and  diligence as members of the profession generally possess.’” (Dem. 10:16–18.)   Defendant  argues that no implied attorney-client relationship exists giving rise to  Defendant’s duty to Plaintiffs because “in this case, there are no allegations  or evidence showing that Plaintiffs’ father intended for anyone other than  himself and his wife to be represented by EL&L in the SoCalGas litigation.”  (Id. at 13:18–20.) “EL&L never communicated with Plaintiffs, never  obtained a signed retainer agreement from Plaintiffs, never received a request  for a retainer agreement for Plaintiffs and did absolutely nothing that would  induce Plaintiffs to believe that an attorney client relationship was formed.”  (Id. at 7:24–27.)   In the SAC,  Plaintiffs allege that their stepmother, Sandra Bui, was referred to  Defendant’s law firm by an attorney who she informed about Plaintiff Nicole  Youssef’s medical symptoms stemming from the subject gas leak. (SAC ¶ 5.)  Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant sent Ms. Bui an email making “it  appear that it would be communicating with a singular head of household rather  than each individual potential claimant.” (Pls.’ Opp. 6:7–8, citing SAC ¶ 9.) “Ms.  Bui and Plaintiffs each reasonably believed that Plaintiffs would be included  in the gas leak litigation in part because the Engstrom Firm had taken the  steps necessary to have their son/half-brother James Clark included in the gas  leak litigation and had informed Ms. Bui of that fact.” (Id. at 7:3–6,  citing SAC ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs further allege that their father, Tony Youssef, wrote  to Defendant: “If I need to fill out another one for my wife and/or kids please  provide client IDs for the missing questionnaire(s),” and Defendant  subsequently wrote to Ms. Bui: “If you hear nothing further from us, then it is  fine.” (SAC ¶¶ 19–20.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant repeatedly reassured  Ms. Bui and Tony Youssef that they were not required to take any further action  to assure that their household’s claims were pursued. (Id. at ¶¶ 22–28.)   Based on  the foregoing allegations, Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “at all times  relevant hereto, Plaintiffs were members of the Youssef/Bui household and were  expressly led by Defendant to believe that (1) communications from Defendant  would be sent to their parents, who should then relay the information to them;  (2) information concerning Plaintiffs [sic] claims would be sought by Defendant  via their parents; and (3) even if Plaintiffs did not directly receive  newsletter communications from Defendant, Defendant were still working on their  case.” (Pls.’ Opp. 11:26–12:5.) Therefore, Plaintiffs contend that “Defendant’s  conduct and/or communications always led the entire Youssef/Bui family to  believe that any recovery would be handled on a family-wide basis, that  Plaintiffs’ interests were being handled, and that Tony Youssef, Sandra Bui,  and Plaintiffs had done everything within their power in order to perfect each  of their claims.” (Id. at 12:10–14.)   In reply,  Defendant argues that “the evidence shows that Plaintiffs never formed any type  of attorney client relationship with EL&L and the Plaintiffs’ parents never  manifested a clear, certain, and undisputed intent for EL&L to represent  Plaintiffs.” (Def.’s Reply 3:11–13.) “Plaintiffs allege that they were led to  believe that any recovery would be on a family-wide basis. However, they fail  to allege any facts to support who or what led them to that illogical opinion.”  (Id. at 5:17–19.) The Court disagrees.   Based on the allegations in the SAC, the Court finds that Plaintiffs  have sufficiently alleged facts at the pleading stage to support their  contention that Defendant, through its communications with Plaintiff’s parents,  led them to believe that they were included in the gas leak litigation as a  household, inclusive of Plaintiffs, therefore Plaintiffs have sufficiently  alleged an implied attorney-client relationship between the parties. (SAC ¶¶  3–28.) Accordingly, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs that “at a minimum, the  factual allegations asserted by Plaintiffs in the SAC are sufficient to  conclude that Defendant’s conduct reasonably induced Plaintiffs to believe that  the relationship was formed.” (Pls.’ Opp. 13:14–16.) The Court notes  Defendant’s arguments offered in attacking the merits of Plaintiffs’ allegations  but declines to reach them at the demurrer stage.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently cured the  pleading defects set forth in the Court’s ruling on Defendant’s previous demurrer  and have alleged facts sufficient to support a cause of action for legal  malpractice. Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is  overruled.   C.    Fraudulent  Concealment   Plaintiffs’ second cause of action  alleges fraudulent concealment against Defendant. “‘[T]he elements of an action for fraud and  deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or  suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to  disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally  concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)  the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he  did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of  the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained  damage.’ [Citation]” (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC  (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.) Fraud causes of action must be pled with  specificity. The particularity requirement “necessitates pleading facts which  show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were  tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)    Here,  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged the requisite  elements of a duty to disclose nor justifiable reliance. “Because Plaintiffs  did not have attorney-client relationship with EL&L, EL&L was under no  duty to disclose any facts regarding the SoCalGas litigation.” (Dem. 14:20–22.)  Defendant further argues that “Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is uncertain as to  whether EL&L was under a duty to disclose any material facts and to whom in  which that duty ran, specially, their father or non-client Plaintiffs, and what  circumstances would show justifiable reliance.” (Id. at 15:17–19.)   As set  forth above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that an  implied attorney-client relationship was created between the parties which  would give rise to Defendant’s duty to disclose. Plaintiffs, as Tony Youssef  and Ms. Bui’s children, “were led to believe by the Engstrom Firm that the  entire family was fully represented by the Engstrom Firm, and they each relied  justifiably on the Engstrom Firm to include them in the gas leak litigation. At  no time up and until November 2022 did the Engstrom Firm ever indicate to the  Youssef/Bui family that the Plaintiffs were not represented by the Engstrom  Firm nor did the Engstrom Firm ever request that additional or expanded  retainer agreements be executed.” (SAC ¶ 64.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently cured the  pleading defects set forth in the Court’s ruling on Defendant’s previous demurrer  and have alleged facts sufficient to support a cause of action for fraudulent  concealment. Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is  overruled.   D.    Statute  of Limitations   Defendant  further argues that each of Plaintiffs’ causes of action are time-barred by the  applicable statute of limitations. “An action against an attorney for a  wrongful act or omission, other than for actual fraud, arising in the  performance of professional services shall be commenced within one year after  the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have  discovered, the facts constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years  from the date of the wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.” (Code  Civ. Proc. § 340.6, subd. (a).) However, the four year limitations period can  be tolled when the attorney willfully conceals known facts constituting the  wrongful act or omission. (Id. at subd. (a)(3).)   The statute  of limitations for an action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake is  three years, but “is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the  aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.” (Code Civ.  Proc. § 338, subd. (d).) “In order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed  accrual of a cause of action, ‘[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face  that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must  specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2)  the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.’” (Fox  v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808.)   An attorney  may be equitably estopped from asserting a statute of limitations defense to a  malpractice action, where the attorney’s advice was responsible for the client’s  tardy filing of the action. (Leasequip, Inc. v. Dapeer (2002) 103  Cal.App.4th 394, 403–405.)   Defendant  argues that “the Court should reject Plaintiffs [sic] alleged November 2022  discovery date as Plaintiffs’ [sic] fail to allege any reasonable diligence in  the SAC which would afford them the refuge of relying on the November 2022  discovery date.” (Dem. 18:18–20.) “The widespread public press coverage  combined with the filing of the November 4, 2016 lawsuit which was publicly  available, and over five years of no communication between Plaintiffs and  EL&L, are enough to alert a reasonable person to the fact that they are not  being represented by a law firm that they never even communicated with.” (Id.  at 21:7–10.)   Plaintiffs  argue in opposition that “at no time up and until November 2022 did Defendant  ever indicate to the Youssef/Bui household, including Plaintiffs that they were  not represented by Defendant or that any affirmative steps needed to be taken  for them to be represented. Defendant never requested that additional or  expanded retainer agreements be executed.” (Pls.’ Opp. 16:17–21.) “Despite  their knowledge of the Plaintiffs, no one in the Youssef household was timely  advised that (1) each family member living in the home must separately retain  counsel to participate in the settlement, (2) Plaintiffs were not actually  included by Defendant on the Underlying Complaint, or (3) that Plaintiffs would  not receive a settlement payment.” (Id. at 17:19–22.) Therefore,  Plaintiffs contend that “taken as a whole, the SAC sets forth why and how  Plaintiffs [sic] conduct amounts to ‘reasonable diligence’ so as to justify the  delayed discovery.” (Id. at 16:13–14.)   On reply,  Defendant argues that “contrary to Plaintiffs’ assertions, ignorance and age  are not an excuse. Even young adults understand concepts of litigation and the  choice of retaining a lawyer.” (Def.’s Reply 7:11–12.) The Court again finds Defendant’s  arguments to be inapposite at the demurrer stage. Based on the foregoing, the  Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged reasonable diligence in  their delayed discovery of Defendant’s alleged wrongdoing, by adding factual allegations  stating that Defendant repeatedly assured Plaintiffs’ parents that they were  not required to take any further action to assure that their household’s claims  were pursued. (SAC ¶¶ 22–28.) Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled on this  basis.   MOTION TO STRIKE   The court may, upon a motion, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn  or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order  of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the  face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)   A.    Punitive  Damages   Here,  Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ references to punitive damages from the  SAC. Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud,  or oppression by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or  despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the  rights or safety of others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning  Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression”  means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in  conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an  intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known  by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise  cause injury. (Ibid.)   Punitive  damages must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations,  devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that  parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.  Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   Here,  Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs failed to allege any facts showing that  EL&L acted with malice or an intent to harm Plaintiffs.” (MTS 8:26–27.) “Plaintiffs’  allegations are based solely on EL&L’s alleged legal malpractice and  professional negligence regarding EL&L’s alleged failure to file a lawsuit  on behalf of Plaintiffs and obtaining them claim numbers.” (Id. at  6:28–7:2.) “At best, Plaintiff alleges negligent conduct on the part of  EL&L with respect to information EL&L should have provided Plaintiffs’  parents regarding how individual claims will be handled in the SoCalGas  litigation.” (Id. at 9:8–11 [emphasis in original].)   In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue that “Defendant’s [sic] concealed and suppressed  material facts that ultimately caused Plaintiffs harm. … Defendant’s failures  resulted in Plaintiffs entirely being left out of the settlement.” (Pls.’ Opp. 3:22–23;  4:4.) “Defendant never notified Tony, Sandra or Plaintiffs that each family  member must file a separate claim, even though they had express knowledge of  Plaintiffs existence prior to the filing of the Underlying Complaint. They  overtly chose to do nothing. This alone is malicious and evidence of an intent  to harm Plaintiffs.” (Id. at 5:17–20.)   While the  Court disagrees that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged the requisite malice  that would warrant recovery of punitive damages, the Court nevertheless finds  that Plaintiffs have alleged a basis for punitive damages under the “fraud”  prong of Civil Code section 3294 in alleging that Defendant concealed the fact  that it failed to include Plaintiffs as claimants in the gas leak litigation.  The issue of Defendant’s intent to defraud is a question of fact that the Court  declines to address at the demurrer stage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205  Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061.) Accordingly, the motion to strike is denied.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is  overruled and the motion to strike is denied. Defendant to file its answer to  Plaintiffs’ SAC within 20 days.   The Court is not requesting oral argument on this  matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice  of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the  Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all  other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of  the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative ruling will  become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”         Notice may be given either by email at CHAdeptF51@LACourt.org or by  telephone at (818) 407-2233.  