 Case Number:  21STCV24228    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TED WAITT, Trustee
  of The Nightingale Trust dated November 1, 2017
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TYLER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, a
  California corporation; LANDRY DESIGN GROUP INCORPORATED, a California
  corporation; PLANNING PARTNERS LIMITED, a California corporation; MARK L.
  SMITH, an individual; JAMES WEST ROOFING & WATERPROOFING, business form
  unknown; CALIFORNIA ENERGY DESIGNS, INC., a California corporation; and DOES
  1 through 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.  
 


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV24228
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT AND CROSS-DEFENDANT JADA, INC.’s
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR ALTERNATIVELY SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date: December 6, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 




 
TYLER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, a
  California corporation,
 
                         Cross-Complainant,
 
 
JADA WINDOWS; HAMMERHEAD INTERNATIONAL; S&S
  WATERPROOFING_ STONELAND; E.C.M EXOTIC POOLS & SPA; CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASS,
  INC.; MAIDEN STONE; PLANNING PARTNERS LIMITED, a California corporation;
  JAMES WEST ROOFING & WATERPROOFING, business form unknown; CALIFORNIA
  ENERGY DESIGNS, INC., a California corporation; and ROES 1 through 100,
  inclusive,
 
                          Cross-Defendants. 
 


 


 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
and Cross-Defendant Jada, Inc. dba Sierra Woods (“Jada”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Tyler Development (“Tyler”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. No reply has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of alleged construction defects in a single-family residence
(the “Project”). On June 29, 2021, Plaintiff Ted Waitt Trustee of The
Nightingale Trust dated November 1, 2017 (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Tyler; Landry Design Group Incorporated; Planned Partners
Limited; Mark L. Smith; James West Roofing & Waterproofing; California
Energy Designs, Inc.; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive for: (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Professional Negligence; (4) Strict Products
Liability; (5) Breach of Express Warranty; (6) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Merchantability; (7) Breach of Implied Warranty Of Fitness For Particular
Purpose; and (8) Declaratory Relief.  
 
On
July 9, 2021, Defendant and Cross-Complainant Tyler filed a Cross-Complaint
against Cross-Defendants Jada Windows, Hammerhead International, S&S
Waterproofing, Stoneland, ECM Exotic Pools & Spa, Crystal Clear Glass,
Inc., Maiden Stone, Planning Partners Limited, James West Roofing &
Waterproofing, California Energy Designs, Inc. and ROES 1 through 100,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Equitable
Indemnity; (3) Contribution; (4) Express Indemnity; and (5) Declaratory Relief.

On
April 24, 2024, Jada filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or
Alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication (the “Motion”). On June 26, 2024, Tyler
filed an opposition to the Motion. No reply has been filed.                       
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial
notice of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States”. 
 
The
court, however, may not take judicial notice of the truth of the contents of
the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
            Although it is not required because they are pleadings filed in the
within action, pursuant to Jada’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of
the following:           
(1) 
Plaintiff’s June 29, 2021 Complaint filed in this
action;
(2) 
Tyler’s July 9, 2021 Cross-Complaint filed in this
action; and 
(3) 
Jada’s August 6, 2021 Answer to the Cross-Complaint.

 
DISCUSSION
            The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all
the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)¿¿¿ 
 
As
to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of
action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (CCP § 437c subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿ 
 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the
party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿¿ 
 
            Jada moves for summary judgment, or
in the alternative, summary adjudication, of Tyler’s first cause of action for
breach of contract, second cause of action for equitable indemnity, and third
cause of action for contribution.  The
Court notes that Jada is not moving for summary adjudication or judgment with
regard to the Complaint, as to which it is a defendant.
 
First Cause of Action, Breach of Contract
            Initially, Tyler concedes that it is neither seeking contractual remedies against
Jada nor has it any facts to support a breach of contract cause of action
against Jada. (Opp. p. 2:5-9.) 
            
Thus, Jada’s
motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of action for breach of
contract is GRANTED. 

 
Second and Third Causes of Action, Equitable Indemnity
and Contribution
The principle behind equitable indemnity and
contribution is to allocate loss among multiple tortfeasors on a comparative
fault basis. “The right depends on the principle that everyone is responsible
for the consequences of his or her own wrong…” (Fireman’s
Fund Ins Co. v. Haslam (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th
1347, 1353.) “Under the doctrine of equitable indemnity, one tortfeasor may
obtain partial indemnity from another tortfeasor on a comparative fault basis.
[citations omitted] Thus, liability for the injury is borne by each individual
tortfeasor in direct proportion to his or her respective fault.” (Id. at 1354)
 
 Therefore,
if Jada is jointly liable for Plaintiff’s damages, then Jada owes a duty to Tyler
to indemnify or contribute to the damages that Tyler may be compelled to pay to
Plaintiff. (Western Steamship
Lines, Inc. v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1994)
8 Cal. 4th 100, 114 [“there can be no indemnity without liability.”]; Herrero v. Atkinson (1964)
227 Cal. App. 2d 69, 73 [“Contribution distributes the loss equally among all
tortfeasors, each bearing his pro rata share.”].)
Jada. argues that Tyler cannot prevail on its
claims for equitable indemnity or contribution because none of Plaintiff’s
alleged defects include materials supplied or work performed by Jada.  Jada
asserts that Plaintiff’s claim is based upon defects with the window glass and
glazing that were installed at Plaintiff’s property. (UMF 34.) Jada argues that
it only provided door and window frames, which are not alleged to be the source
of Plaintiff’s defects. (UMF 22-23, 34.) 
 
Jada has not met its burden to show that the causes
of action for equitable indemnity and contribution cannot be established. Plaintiff
has, in fact, alleged that there were defects in Jada’s work.  Jada provided both window frames and door
frames to the Property.  (UMF 3.)  The Complaint alleges and Plaintiff’s
discovery responses establishes that the alleged defects in the Project include
the failure of the doors to seal properly. (UMF 47.)  
 
As such, the equitable indemnity and contribution
causes of action cannot be determined until Plaintiff’s claims against Jada and
Tyler are resolved. The doctrines of equitable indemnity and contribution apply
only among defendants who are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff. (BFGC
Architects Planners, Inc. v. Forcum/Mackey Construction, Inc. (2004) 119
Cal.App.4th 848, 852.) Plaintiff has asserted causes of action against both
Tyler and Jada.  
 
The
Court has not yet made a finding on the merits of Plaintiff’s claims. Jada’s duty to indemnify Tyler may
arise “when in equity and good conscience” the burden of judgment in
Plaintiff’s favor should be lifted from Tyler and imposed on Jada. (Fireman’s
Fund Ins Co., supra 29 Cal.App.4th at 1353)  Therefore, until there is a finding on the
merits of Plaintiff’s claims, there is necessarily a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Jada bears a proportion of fault for Plaintiff’s
construction defects and thus owe a duty to indemnify or contribute to the
damages Tyler may owe to Plaintiff.  
 
            Thus, Jada’s motion for summary adjudication as to the second and third
causes of action for equitable indemnity and contribution are DENIED. 
 
ORDER
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Jada’s motion for summary adjudication as to the
First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract. 
The Court DENIES Cross-Defendant Jada’s motion for summary adjudication
as to the Second Cause of Action for Equitable Indemnity and the Third Cause of
Action for Contribution. 
 
            
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 6th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 