  Case Number:  23SMCV04562    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Motsinger v. Cosby, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV04562


Complaint Filed:


9-27-23           




Hearing Date:


11-8-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


8


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER TO FAC WITHOUT MOTION
TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants William Cosby, Jr.
and Jemmin, Inc.
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Donna
Motsinger 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants
William Cosby, Jr. and Jemmin, Inc.’s Demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED.
Plaintiff has alleged all the necessary elements to revive her sexual assault
claim under CCP § 340.16(e).   
 
REASONING
As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E428.50Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)
 
Generally, Plaintiff is only
required to allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (See Committee on
Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212 [“the complaint should set forth the ultimate facts constituting the cause
of action, not the evidence by which plaintiff proposes to prove those facts”);
1 Cal. Affirmative Def. § 10:2 (2d ed.) [allegations of agency, course and
scope of employment, etc. qualify as ultimate facts].) Plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true on demurrer. (See Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage
Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924 [“For purposes of reviewing a demurrer, we
accept the truth of material facts properly pleaded in the operative
complaint”].)
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section
452 provides in full: “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant. (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238, quoting CCP § 452.) On a demurer “the
allegations of the complaint must be read in the light most favorable to the
plaintiff.” (Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 1547, 1557.)
 
I.               
Demurrer to the Complaint based on Statute of
Limitations—OVERRULED
 
Defendants William Cosby, Jr.
(“Cosby”) and Jemmin, Inc (“Jemmin”) (collectively “Defendants) argue that
Plaintiff Donna Motsinger’s (“Motsinger”) claims are barred by the statute of
limitations because Motsinger fails to plead the necessary facts to revive the
claim under CCP § 340.16(e). Motsinger brings her claims under CCP
§ 340.16)(e), part of the Sexual Abuse and Cover Up Accountability Act
(the “Act”) (See Compl., ¶ 14 [“All claims brought against all parties by Ms.
Motsinger are revived under California Code of Civil Procedure § 340.16(e).”].)
 
CCP § 340.16(e) states the
following:
 
(e)(1) Notwithstanding any other law,
any claim seeking to recover damages suffered as a result of a sexual assault
that occurred on or after the plaintiff's 18th birthday that would otherwise be
barred before January 1, 2023, solely because the applicable statute of
limitations has or had expired, is hereby revived, and a cause of action may
proceed if already pending in court on January 1, 2023, or, if not filed by
that date, may be commenced between January 1, 2023, and December 31, 2023.
(2) This subdivision revives claims
brought by a plaintiff who alleges all of the following:
(A) The plaintiff was sexually
assaulted.
(B) One or more entities are legally
responsible for damages arising out of the sexual assault.
(C) The entity or entities,
including, but not limited to, their officers, directors, representatives,
employees, or agents, engaged in a cover up or attempted a cover up of a
previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of
such abuse.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd.
(e), emphasis added.)
 
CCP § 340.16(e) defines “legally
responsible,” as “the entity or entities are liable under any theory of
liability established by statute or common law, including, but not limited to,
negligence, intentional torts, and vicarious liability. (Code Civ. Proc., §
340.16, subd., (e)(4)(C).) 
 
CCP § 340.16(e) defines “[e]ntity”
as a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation,
association, or other legal entity. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd., (e)(4)(B).)

 
CCP § 340.16(e) defines “Cover up”
as “a concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault that
incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents information relating to a
sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff,
including, but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements or
confidentiality agreements.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd. (e)(4)(A).) “[N]othing
in the language of the statute requires that the alleged cover up involve a
previous instance of sexual assault by the same individual who later assaulted
the plaintiff. The statutory language requires only that the plaintiff allege a
cover up of a previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by “an
alleged perpetrator of such abuse.” (Jane Doe #21 (S.H.) v. CFR
Enterprises, Inc. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1199, 1212.)
 
 
Motsinger filed her claim on
9-27-23, thus within the filing timeframe to bring a claim under CCP § 340.16(e).  Motsinger alleges she was sexually assaulted
by Cosby. (FAC., ¶ 6.)  Motsinger alleges
that Cosby “was operating as a sole proprietor at all relevant times,” was at
the Circle Star Theatre “at the time of the sexual assault,” “was there for business
purposes,”  and  “Cosby's actions and inactions leading up to,
and at the time of the sexual assault were in his capacity as sole proprietor.”
 (Id., ¶ 8.) Motsinger
alleges that "Mr. Cosby was at the Circle Star for personal profit,
arranged the limousine for a business purpose, and arranged for sex (through
Ms. Motsinger) and drugs to be available to him for a business purpose. Mr.
Cosby treated all expenses associated with his performance that night as
business expenses, including the expenses to transport Ms. Motsinger through
the limousine and to provide . . . the wine that drugged her[.]" (Id.,
¶¶ 36, 51, 60.) 
 
Motsinger has therefore plead that
at least one entity is legally responsible for the damages arising out of the
sexual assault, by pleading Cosby was acting as a sole proprietor. “[A] sole
owner is a sole proprietorship and a sole proprietorship is not a legal entity
separate from its individual owner,” meaning that a sole proprietor is legally
responsible for all torts committed by the sole proprietor. (Twenty-Nine
Palms Enterprises Corp. v. Bardos (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1449.)
Additionally, Sole proprietorships are specifically mentioned in the entity
definitions under CCP § 340.16(e). The allegations of a sole proprietorship are
not made in bad faith as argued by Defendants since sole proprietorships are a
regularly occurring business structure within the entertainment business, or
Cosby’s industry, and are not required to have a DBA or separate business name.
(See Twenty-Nine Palms Enters. Corp. v. Bardos, 210 Cal.App.4th 1435,
1448.)
 
Additionally, Motsinger alleges an alternative
theory of entity responsibility that Jemmin, “the production company through
which Mr. Cosby worked at all relevant times . . . . and remains the chief
executive officer,” is legally responsible for damages arising out of the
assault. (FAC., ¶¶ 6-7, 9, 11-12.) Motsinger alleges ‘Jemmin, Inc. was set up
for the sole purpose of satisfying Mr. Cosby's business and related pursuits
including all wants and needs of Mr. Cosby at relevant performances – including
drugs and sex from people like Ms. Motsinger.” (Id., ¶ 12.) Motsinger
alleges "Mr. Cosby also ratified his conduct on behalf of Jemmin, Inc., by
pursuing the sexual assault while exercising his CEO responsibilities, knowing
of such assaults and refusing to investigate himself or terminate himself . . .
Were the law to allow Jemmin, Inc., to get a free pass for investigating the
conduct of its CEO and refusing to terminate its CEO for such conduct, the law
would allow Mr. Cosby to abuse the privileges and benefits of a corporation for
his personal gratification." (Id., at ¶33).  Defendant Circle Star Theater Corp. (“Circle
Star”) “had the power to control the activities backstage where Ms. Motsinger
was drugged by Mr. Cosby and had the power to ensure the safety of guests and
invitees against the sexual assault at the hands of its performers” and thus is
legally responsible for the damages arising out of the assault. (Id.., ¶¶
10, 40–42.) Motsinger alleges Jemmin “engaged in a cover up” through their
director and employee Cosby, by using drugs to erase Motsinger’s ”memory of the
assault,” thus preventing “information relating to a sexual assault from
becoming public or being disclosed by the plaintiff.” (FAC., ¶ 16.)
Additionally, Motsinger alleges Jemmin’s employees, Cosby’s limousine driver
and security detail, “had or should have had notice of Mr. Cosby’s cover up
attempts and facilitated the cover ups by failing to report Mr. Cosby’s prior
assaults.” (Ibid.) 
 
Motsinger successfully alleges a
negligence claim as to Jemmin to reach the “legally responsible” definition of
CCP § 340.16(e)(4)(C). “The elements of a cause of action for negligence are
well established. They are ‘(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach
of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause
of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th
913, 917.)  “In a case involving harm
caused by a third party, a person may have an affirmative duty to protect the
victim of another's harm if that person is in what the law calls a “special
relationship” with either the victim or the person who created the harm,” which
can arise out of an “employer and employee” relationship.” (Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 215.) The analysis of whether a corporate
defendant has a legal duty to protect a plaintiff from sexual abuse at the
hands of its own employee, or agent is a two-step process which includes: (1)
the court must decide whether there exists a special relationship between the
parties giving rise to an affirmative duty to protect; and (2) if a special
relationship between parties exists the Court then analyzes the Rowland Factors which include: “the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff,
the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of
the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the
moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing
future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the
community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for
breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk
involved.” (Id., at pp, 209, 217.)
 
“A special relationship between the defendant and the victim is one
that ‘gives the victim a right to expect’ protection from the defendant, while
a special relationship between the defendant and the dangerous third party is
one that ‘entails an ability to control [the third party's] conduct.” (Safechuck v. MJJ Productions, Inc. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 675, 691–692, reh'g denied (Sept. 6, 2023), review
denied (Nov. 15, 2023).) “Any
director, employee or other agent of defendants who knew of or suspected abuse
could have done something to protect plaintiffs’ welfare: issued warnings, gone
to police, confronted [Defendant].” (Ibid., at p. 695.) “[A] corporation that
facilitates the sexual abuse of children by one of its employees is not excused
from an affirmative duty to protect those children merely because it is solely
owned by the perpetrator of the abuse.” (Ibid., at p. 680.)
 
Motsinger pleads that “Jemmin had a
special relationship with its chief executive officer, sole shareholder,
director, and key employee Defendant Bill Cosby to protect against the sexual
assault of third party Ms. Motsinger.” (FAC, ¶ 38.) Motsinger further defines
the special relationship by stating:
 
Jemmin, Inc. was the corporation that
furnished the services of Bill Cosby at all relevant times as a recording
entertainer, owned copyrights and collected royalties on the exploitation of
those recordings. Defendant Bill Cosby was the chief executive officer and a
director of the board of directors of Jemmin, Inc. Therefore, Jemmin, Inc. had
a duty to take reasonable steps to control the conduct of Defendant Bill Cosby
and prevent sexual assaults of third parties at the hand of Defendant Bill
Cosby, particularly in the context of entertainment services Mr. Cosby rendered
on the night of Ms. Motsinger's sexual assault.to protect Motsinger against the
alleged sexual assault 
. . . . 
Jemmin, Inc.'s agents or employees,
including drivers and security personnel for Mr. Cosby, frequently transported
women both to, and from, locations where Mr. Cosby sexually assaulted them. In
such role, agents and/or employees of Jemmin, Inc., witnessed the sexual abuse
of Mr. Cosby's victims or circumstances suggesting sexual abuse, including
multiple instances of Mr. Cosby providing drugs to women who later became
unconscious and had to be carried to vehicles, multiple instances of women
becoming unconscious in Mr. Cosby's presence only for him to carry them to an
isolated area and spend the night with them, and instances of Mr. Cosby
inappropriately touching or groping women unconscious in his limousine who
could not give consent.
 
(FAC, ¶ 38, subd. (a).)
 
Motsinger alleges that Jemmin had
the ability to control Cosby’s conduct. (FAC, ¶ 12, 38, subd. (c).)
Additionally, Motsinger alleges sufficient facts to satisfy the Rowland Factors.
A foreseeability of harm exists where a company is alleged to have allowed a
known sexual predator agent/owner of the company to be alone with “unconscious women,”
and a connection allegedly exists between Jemmin’s conduct in failing to warn
or intervene with the eventual alleged sexual assault. (See e.g. Safechuck
v. MJJ Productions, Inc. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 675, 691–695.)  While Safechuck concerned the protection
of children, the same analysis is applicable to the abuse of “unconscious women.”

 
Motsinger alleges Jemmin breached its
duty of care to protect her, and that she was harmed as a direct and proximate
result of Jemmin’s negligence. (Id., ¶¶ 39, 43) Thus, Motsinger has
alleged the required elements of a negligence to satisfy the “legally
responsible” definition under CCP § 340.16(e)(4)(C).
 
Motsinger sufficiently alleges a
coverup under CCP § 340.16(e)(2)(C) by alleging that Cosby either in his
capacity as an officer, director, or agent of Jemmin, or as a sole proprietor,
engaged in a concerted effort to coverup, or hide evidence relating to past
sexual assaults committed by him, through the use of "quaaludes and/or
other amnesia-inducing sedatives" to cause victims to fall unconscious and
erase their memory, thereby preventing information relating to the sexual
assaults from becoming public. (See FAC, ¶ 16–18.) Motsinger pleads the
existence of the alleged Defendants coverup of past sexual assaulte: 
 
Defendant Cosby additionally had a
custom and practice of having staff and employees, including employees of
Jemmin, Inc., such as drivers, security personnel, and house staff in Jemmin,
Inc.'s and/or Bill Cosby as a sole proprietor's employ, sign confidentiality or
nondisclosure agreements to work for Jemmin, Inc., and/or Bill Cosby. Through
the use of confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements, Jemmin, Inc., and
Bill Cosby, engaged in a concerted effort to hide evidence relating to Bill
Cosby's prior sexual assaults, many of which are described above, which
officers, directors, agents, and/or employees of Jemmin, Inc., and/or Bill
Cosby, had notice were occurring, and prevent said officers, directors, agents,
and/or employees from going public, or disclosing the information to
individuals such as Ms. Motsinger.
(FAC, ¶¶ 17(h), 19.)
 
Defendants argue Motsinger fails to
allege facts demonstrating that Jemmin would be vicariously liable for Cosby’s
alleged torts. However, Motsinger alleges Jemmin authorized and ratified the
acts via Cosby, as the Chief Executive Officer of Jemmin. (See FAC., ¶¶ 33, 35,
50, 59; see also C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th
1094, 1110, as modified on denial of reh'g (Feb. 3, 2009) [“As an
alternate theory to respondeat superior, an employer may be liable for an
employee's act where the employer either authorized the tortious act or
subsequently ratified an originally unauthorized tort.”].) Defendant argues
that a CEO of a company, like Cosby here, cannot ratify their own conduct. The
authority relied on by Defendant cited authority is not binding on this Court,
is not persuasive, and is distinguishable. Neither Mo. Pub. Entity Risk
Mgmt. Fund v. Investors Ins. Co. of Am., 338 F.Supp. 2d 1046 (W.D. Mo.
2004) or Waltz v. Dunning, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 178660 (N.D. Ala. 2014),
involve closely held corporations where the CEO/Owner is the only officer. 
 
Moreover, Motsinger has included
allegations in the FAC that Cosby was a sole proprietor, as analyzed above,
which meets the entity requirements of CCP § 340.16(e)(4)(B). Even if Cosby
cannot legally ratify his own behavior as a CEO/Sole Owner of Jemmin, he is liable
for his actions as a sole proprietor of his sole proprietorship. Additionally,
the fact that the legislature included “sole proprietorships” within the
statute demonstrates the legislature’s liberal attitude towards the meaning of
“entity” within the statute, as sole proprietorships have very limited, or
barely any, formalities compared to LLC’s and Corporations. (See Friedman, et
al., California Practice Guide: Corporations ¶ 2:3 (2024) [Other than complying
with any applicable licensing requirements, "[n]o formalities are required
to engage in business as a sole proprietor."] 
 
Defendants argue that the cover up is
not properly alleged because Motsinger does not specifically allege that Jemmin
“attempted to hide evidence, through the use of nondisclosure agreements,
confidentiality agreements, or otherwise.” (Demurrer, p.10.) However, the
statute does not state nondisclosure or confidentiality agreements alone are
the only way to allege a cover up. Motsinger alleges sufficient facts to
support multiple means of an alleged cover up by Jemmin under CCP
§ 340.16(e)(4)(A.)
 
The Court notes Defendants repeatedly
argues the allegations in the complaint are made in bad faith because the facts
alleged are not true. As noted by Defendants, however, there are other remedies
for such pleadings filed in “bad faith.” Here, the Court must accept the facts
alleged in the FAC to be true however improbable they may be. Del E.
Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604. (“As
a general rule in testing a pleading against a demurrer the facts alleged in
the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be.”) 

