 Case Number:  BC604858    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  T BC604858 RELIANT V COOPER [Tentative] Orders: COURT'S OSC WHY THE COURT  SHOULD NOT STRIKE THE ORDER GRANTING SUPERIOR LIFE LEAVE TO INTERVENE FOR  FAILURE TO INTERVENE AS REQUIRED BY CCP SECTION 387(E):   Superior Life filed no written  response to the OSC.  The 9/13/2023 order  granting leave for Superior Life to intervene is stricken for violation by  Superior Life of CCP section 387(e).  All  pleadings filed by Superior Life Finance since 9/13/2023 are stricken on the  grounds that the complaint in intervention was never filed, nor was it served  on the parties sued. Superior Life has no standing in this case.  FUTURE ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE  RE MONETARY SANCTIONS: The court sets an OSC on  _______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. T why monetary sanctions of $5,000 should  not be issued against Superior Life Finance and its counsel of record -  Benjamin Fliegel (SBN 277940), Daniel Ahn (SBN235023), and REED SMITH LLP, jointly  and severally - pursuant to CCP section 128.7, for presenting papers for an  improper purpose including harassment, causing unnecessary delay, and  needlessly increasing the cost of litigation, and on the basis that leave to  intervene was falsely requested by Superior Life Finance and its counsel as a  way of inserting Superior Life into the case for the purposes of delay and  harassment, including filing an appeal and attempt to stay the action.  Among other things, Superior Life was granted  leave to intervene on 9/13/2023 but because it had not filed and served its  complaint in intervention as required by CCP section 387(e)[("If leave to  intervene is granted by the court, the intervenor shall...Separately file the  complaint in intervention...")], the court ordered Superior Life to file  its complaint in intervention by 1/23/2024 and it failed to do so.  Although counsel filed papers on  9/6/2023 attaching a copy of the complaint in intervention, the complaint in  intervention was never filed.  The moving  papers indicated that Superior Life has claims against the Receiver to  reimburse premium payments made on the rescinded property pursuant to Section  1692, as well as claims for unjust enrichment and equitable subrogation against  the Receiver, as well as damages.  A copy  of the proposed complaint in intervention alleging these causes of action was  attached to the Declaration of Benjamin Fliegel. The proposed complaint in  intervention seeks statutory recission relief pursuant to Civil Code section  1692, restitution and equitable subrogation against RELIANT LIFE SHARES, LLC, a  California Limited Liability Company, CHRISTOPHER CONWAY in his capacity as  Court-Appointed Receiver for Reliant Life Shares, LLC, and RELIANT LIFE SHARES  SERIES STATUTORY TRUST.   The complaint  in intervention has never been filed.   Superior Life has never filed a proper appearance, nor served the  proposed defendants in intervention. The Declaration of Steve Stanton,  a manager at Superior Life, states that "thus, it is imperative that the  Court modify the recission order to recognize Superior Life's first priority  security interest in the transferred policies before they are sold by the  Receiver by requiring the Receiver to pay Superior Life its rescission remedies  before they are exhausted and disbursed."   Despite advising the court in support of its application to intervene  that it was "imperative" that the recission remedies be addressed  urgently, as of four months later, no complaint in intervention was filed. Instead of intervening, it called  itself a party in intervention, went forward with an ex parte application and  then filed an appeal attempting to stop the progress of the case. When asked by the court on  12/28/2023 why the complaint in intervention had not been filed, counsel for  Superior Life -Mr. Ahn - indicated that "a final decision whether to file  the complaint in intervention has not been made."  This indicates, among other things, that  there may be fraud upon the court because it represented that it would file the  complaint in intervention if leave was granted, then did not file the complaint  but continued to participate in the case as if it had.  If sanctions are awarded, this will require a  mandatory report to the State Bar of California. Papers filed in opposition to the  OSC shall be served and filed no later than 20 calendar days before the  hearing. Papers filed in response to the  opposition to the OSC shall be served and filed no later than 10 calendar days  before the hearing. Clerk of the court will give  notice. MOTION BY THE REEDS TO  INTERVENE:   The court is inclined to deny for  the reasons set forth in the opposition filed by Receiver Christopher  Conway.  The Reeds' rights may be pursued  and protected in the Federal action and there is no information to the  contrary.  It is unclear exactly what  counsel for the Reeds proposes to do if their clients are joined in the case.  It appears that the premise of allowing the Reeds to intervene would be to  allow their counsel to be somehow involved in the direction of the  Receiver.  Counsel for the Reeds are more  than welcome to share ideas and resources with Receiver and his counsel;  intervention is not necessary to do so. HEARING ON MOTION FOR ORDER  TO COMPEL RECEIVER TO COMMENCE PREMIUM COLLECTION AND PAY PREMIUMS, REVERT TO  LIMITED RECEIVERSHIP, AND TO PRODUCE COMMUNICATIONS WITH JUDGMENT CREDITORS AND  ALL COUNSEL THAT SOUGHT RECEIVER'S APPOINTMENT: Deny.  However, the court is inclined to set an OSC  why the Receiver should be continued to allow to serve as the Receiver in this  matter as there has been no substitution of Trustee as ordered by the court.  If the court determines that the Receiver is  not acting in the best interest of Reliant, then the court will entertain  suggestions for the substitution of the Receiver.  This will be discussed further at the  hearing.  