 Case Number:  LC107621    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  T LC107621 GOLF PROJECTS LINDERO, INC.
VS. LAKE LINDERO
Tentative ruling: Plaintiff’s ex parte
application to continue hearing on the Motion for Sanctions.  The court orders electronic service of
papers concerning this motion.
The court grants the request to continue the
hearing on the Motion for Sanctions which is now set for hearing on 2/13/2024
to allow for continuing settlement discussions between plaintiff and
defendant.  The new hearing date will be
4/24/2024 at 8:30 a.m.
The court does not issue any ruling on the
substance of the motion. The court disregards any substantive arguments in the ex parte application or in the objections.  The court expects counsel to be cooperative and not petty.
The court orders that any pleadings concerning
this motion must also be served on Myers Widders through its counsel Hinshaw
& Culbertson.  Failure to serve any
documents pertaining to this motion on Hinshaw & Culbertson shall result in
the court not considering those unserved papers.  Hinshaw & Culbertson shall be included on
any future stipulations concerning the motion. 
Monetary sanctions as attorney fees claimed by GPL against LLHOA, Allan,
and their counsel Myers Widders has been granted leaving only the allocation to
be determined at the hearing on 4/24/2024. The court did not order sanctions
against attorney Jill Friedman. 
Briefs are limited to 15 pages and shall
include a Table of Contents and Table of Authorities. Declarations are limited
to 15 pages in total per brief. No exhibits may be attached. No additional
pages will be granted.  The only briefs
allowed are:
LLHOA, Myer Widders and Michael Allan’s separate
briefs regarding the amount of allocation shall be served by and filed no later
than 4/9/2024.
GPL’s brief in rebuttal to all of the responses
shall be served and filed in a single pleading no later than 4/19/2024.  
Finally, the court notes that the papers by
Myers Widders states: “On January 19, 2024, the same day the Stipulation was
filed, Ilana Makovoz, counsel for GPL, contacted Desmond Hinds of Hinshaw &
Culbertson, seeking Myers Widders’ signature on the Stipulation for the
first time.” (Emphasis added.) 
However, GPL attaches an email dated January 10, 2024 to Mr.
Hinds which states the following:  “From:
michael@labrumlaw.com Subject: Fw:
Stipulation to Continue Monetary Sanctions Date: January 10, 2024 at 12:09 PM To:
dhinds@hinshawlaw.com Cc: Ilana
Makovoz im@makovoz.com, gary@salomonslaw.com
Good afternoon Desmond: We are going to stipulate to continue the monetary
sanctions briefing/hearing as the parties are engaged in settlement discussions.
I assume you are not opposed so please sign and return the attached
stipulation. I will let you know what the new date is once the Court signs off.
Let me know if you have any questions/concerns. Thank you for your time! Best
regards, Michael Labrum, Esq.”  Attorney
Filomena Meyer is advised to assure that her facts are straight in future pleadings.