 Case Number:  23GDCV01391    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LIDA ZOHRABIANS, by and through her Successor-in-Interest,
   NAHID MINASKANIAN, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CENTRAL
   CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL OF GLENDALE INC. dba CHANDLER CONVALESCENT, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23GDCV01391
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

November
   13, 2023




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On July 5, 2023, this action was filed
by Anahid Minaskanian (“Plaintiff”), individually, and as successor-in-interest
to Lida Zohrabians (“Zohrabians”), against Central Convalescent Hospital of
Glendale Inc. dba Chandler Convalescent Hospital (“CCH”) (erroneously sued as “Central
Convalescent Hospital of Glendale Inc. dba Chandler Convalescent Hospital –
Glendale” and “Chestnut Ridge Post Acute LLC dba Chandler Convalescent Hospital
– Glendale”), and Renew Health Consulting Services, LLC (“Renew Health”).
Vartan Vartanians and Mary Boudaghians were named as nominal defendants. Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for elder abuse and neglect, violation of Health &
Safety Code section 1430(b), negligence, and wrongful death. 
On
August 11, 2023, CCH and Renew Health (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this
petition to compel arbitration and stay action. 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief and objection on October 30, 2023. 
Defendants
filed a reply brief on November 3, 2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking
arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and
any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether parties
have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see
also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
943, 947.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff objects to Exhibits A and B
to the Declaration of Denise A. Isfeld on the grounds that they lack
foundation, call for legal conclusions, and are improper opinions. Exhibit A is
a copy of the arbitration agreement and Exhibit B is a copy of the Physician’s
Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (“POLST”) from Zohrabian’s records. The objection
to Exhibit A is overruled. “For purposes of a petition to compel arbitration,
it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document
authentication.” (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 218. “A plain reading of the statute indicates that as a
preliminary matter the court is only required to make a finding of the
agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity.” (Id.
at p. 219.) “Once the petitioners had alleged that the agreement exists, the
burden shifted to respondents to prove the falsity of the purported agreement.”
(Ibid.)
The POLST, however, is not an
arbitration agreement. Therefore, the objection on the grounds that the
document lacks foundation is sustained.  
B.  
Whether
a Valid Arbitration Agreement Exists
“The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.” (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 581, 586 .) Here, Defendants argue that Zohrabian’s daughter, Mary Boudaghians
(“Boudaghians”) signed an arbitration agreement on Zohrabian’s behalf. The
agreement, attached as Exhibit to defense counsel’s declaration, states that it
is to be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) and encompasses “any
dispute” between Zohrabian and CCH or ReNew Health, including “any action for
injury or death arising from negligence, intentional tort and/or statutory
causes of action (including all California Welfare and Institutions Code
sections and Health and Safety Code section 1430).” The agreement is also
“binding on all parties, including [Zohrabian]’s representatives, executors,
family members, and heirs who bring any claim individually or in a
representative capacity.” Based on this language, the claims asserted by
Plaintiff, either on her own behalf as Zohrabian’s heir or on behalf of
Zohrabian in a representative capacity, fall within the scope of the
arbitration agreement.  
Defendants argue that Zohrabian is
bound to the arbitration agreement that Boudaghians signed because Boudaghians also
signed Zohrabian’s POLST and represented that she was Zohrabian’s “legally
recognized decisionmaker.” Defendants argue that “[i]t would be counter
intuitive to contend that [Boudaghians] had the power to decide if [Zohrabian]
lived or died but not the power to execute an Arbitration Agreement on [Zohrabian]’s
behalf.” (Motion, p. 7.) However, this contention was expressly rejected by the
Second Appellate District in Logan v. Country Oaks Partners, LLC (2022)
82 Cal.App.5th 365. In Logan, the court of appeals distinguished between
the authority granted to an individual through an advance directive and the
authority to execute optional arbitration agreements, such as the one at issue
in this case. (Logan, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 375; Motion,
Ifeld Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.) Furthermore, it is well-settled that conduct by an
agent alone is not sufficient to establish agency; rather, both words and
conduct by principal and agent are necessary to create an agency relationship.
(See Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at pp. 587-588 [“an agency
cannot be created by the conduct of the agent alone; rather conduct by the
principal is essential to create the agency”].) Defendants provide no evidence
of any conduct by Zohrabians to demonstrate that Boudaghians was her actual or
ostensible agent. The POLST is inadmissible for the reasons stated above, but
even if it were admissible, it alone is not proof that Boudaghians was actually
Zohrabian’s “legally recognized decisionmaker.” 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants fail
to allege the existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ petition to compel
arbitration is DENIED. 
Dated
this 13th
day of November, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 