 Case Number:  23PSCV01873    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  K Counsel for Plaintiff Mary Carmen Almanza by and through
her conservator, Rosemary 
Almanza’s (i.e., Gharibian Law, APC) Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel is GRANTED, 
effective upon the
filing of a proof of
service showing service of the signed
order upon the 
Client at the
Client’s last known address.
Background   
Plaintiff Mary Carmen Almanza by and
through her conservator, Rosemary Almanza (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff was a resident
at La Posada In San Dimas. Plaintiff sustained injuries fell twice during her
residency and sustained injuries.
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against La Posada Board and Care, Inc. dba La Posada In San
Dimas (“Defendant”) and Does 1-40 for:
1.                 
Elder Abuse/Neglect
2.                 
Negligence/Willful Misconduct
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a “Notice of Death of
Plaintiff and Abatement of Case.”
A Status Conference is set for June 12, 2024.
Discussion
Gharibian Law, APC (“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff (“Client”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
Attorney Art Gharibian (“Gharibian”) represents that there is a conflict
of interest between Client and Firm. Gharibian asks that the court conduct an in
camera hearing outside the presence of all other parties, in the event the
court desires further information.
Gharibian also represents that there has been a breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship with Client, such that withdrawal from
representation is permissible pursuant to California Rule of Professional
Conduct, 3-700(c) and that, while he has asked Client to sign a substitution of
attorney form, Client has not responded to his request.
Gharibian states that he has served the Client by mail at the Client’s
last known address with copies of the motion papers served with this
declaration and that he has confirmed, within the past 30 days, that the
address is current, by telephone.
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have been
sufficiently met.
Accordingly, the
motion is granted, effective upon the filing of a proof
of service showing service of the signed order upon
the Client at the Client’s last known address.