 Case Number:  23NWCV01576    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  C PORTILLO, et al. v. GENERAL MOTORS, LLC
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01576
HEARING:  11/13/24
 
#5
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend.  
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED in part and GRANTED
in part with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a Song-Beverly action. On May 22, 2023, Plaintiffs
Elizabeth Portillo, Blanca Ramirez, and Jay Portillo (Plaintiffs) filed this
action against Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant). Plaintiffs filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on February 2, 2024 alleging causes of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivisions (a)(3), (b) and
(d); breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; and fraudulent
inducement – concealment.
 
On March 4, 2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiffs’ fifth
cause of action and filed a motion to strike punitive damages and the fifth
cause of action from the FAC. Plaintiffs filed oppositions on October 30, 2024.
Defendant replied on November 5, 2024.
          
          Factual
Allegations
 
The FAC alleges the following: On April 30, 2021, Plaintiffs
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant regarding a 2021 Chevrolet
Silverado 1500 (the Subject Vehicle), which Defendant manufactured and
distributed. (FAC, ¶ 6.) The warranty contract contained several warranties
including a bumper-to-bumper warranty, a powertrain warranty, and an emission
warranty. (FAC, ¶ 7.) Several defects and nonconformities manifested in the
Subject Vehicle during the express warranty period including transmission defects,
engine defects, and electrical defects. (FAC, ¶ 11.) 
 
On six occasions, between November 2021 and July 2022,
Plaintiffs presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair
facility with various concerns. These concerns included electrical issues,
suspension issues, transmission jerking, engine issues, and catalytic converter
issues. (FAC, ¶¶ 23-28.) On each occasion, the authorized repair facility
performed the warranty repairs and represented to Plaintiffs that the Subject
Vehicle had been repaired. (FAC, ¶¶ 23-28.) The Subject Vehicle continued to
have issues. 
 
Plaintiffs state the value of the Subject vehicle is
worthless. (FAC, ¶ 13.) Defendant failed to promptly replace the Subject
Vehicle or promptly make restitution in compliance with the Song-Beverly Act.
(FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs allege Defendant knew of these defects and nonconformities
before the parties executed the warranty agreement and failed to disclose these
issues to Plaintiffs beforehand. 
 
Legal Standard
 
          Demurrer
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “‘treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .’” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
          Motion to
Strike
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or objections to
pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer
for damages, etc.). (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435-437.) A motion to strike lies only
where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleadings or by way of
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) A party may file a motion to strike
in whole or in part within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, however,
if a party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to the
complaint, the time to answer is extended. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435, subd. (b)(1),
435, subd. (c).)
 
 
 
          Meet and
Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving
party must engage in a specified meet and confer process with the party who
filed the pleading at issue for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached as to the filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer/motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).) If the parties are unable to come to an agreement, a
declaration setting forth such meet and confer efforts must accompany the
demurrer and motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel, Ryan Kay, declares he attempted
to meet and confer telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel to discuss the
issues with the FAC. (Declaration of Ryan Kay, ¶ 2.) Kay states he was
unsuccessful in his attempts. (Ibid.) Kay also notes that he did meet
and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the original complaint, but that
the FAC contains the same deficiencies from the original complaint. (Ibid.)
 
Thus, the meet and confer requirement is met.
 
Analysis
 
Demurrer – Fifth Cause of Action
 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for fraudulent
inducement – concealment on that grounds that FAC fails to state facts
sufficient and specific enough to constitute a cause of action. Specifically,
the FAC fails to allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to
disclose: Plaintiffs do not claim they spoke to Defendant’s personnel before
deciding to purchase the Subject Vehicle; Plaintiffs do not allege Defendant
had knowledge of the alleged defects or that Defendant intended to defraud
Plaintiffs; and Plaintiffs lack privity with Defendant. (Demurrer, p. 5:22-25.)
The FAC alleges conclusory statements. (FAC, ¶ 45.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that in cases claiming
fraud through nondisclosure—where the concealment is based on providing false
or incomplete statements—the complaint need only set forth the substance of the
statements at issue. (Opposition, p. 2:5-9.) Plaintiffs also state the
specificity requirement is “relaxed when it is apparent from the allegations
that the defendant necessarily possesses knowledge of the facts.” (Opposition,
p. 2:9-12.) Plaintiffs also assert that California law does not require a transactional
relationship for a manufacturer to have a duty to disclose material facts. Regardless,
Plaintiffs argue the FAC alleges a transactional relationship giving rise to
Defendant’s duty to disclose the transmission defects by stating: Plaintiffs
and Defendant entered into a warranty contract; Defendants had superior
knowledge of the true extent of the transmission defect; Defendants actively
concealed this information with the intent to induce Plaintiff to purchase the
Subject Vehicle. (Opposition, p. 5:1-6.) 
 
 
          Fraudulent
Inducement
 
To plead a claim for fraudulent concealment, the plaintiff must plead
“(1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a
duty to disclose the fact; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff
by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was
unaware of the fact and would have acted differently if the concealed or
suppressed fact was known; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the material fact.” (Rattagan v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 40.) A fraud claim must be alleged with
specificity, even at the pleading stage. (Id. at p. 43.)[1]
 
“A plaintiff may assert a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment based on conduct occurring in the course of a contractual
relationship, if the elements of the claim can be established independently of
the parties’ contractual rights and obligations and the tortious conduct
exposes the plaintiff to a risk of harm beyond the reasonable contemplation of
the parties when they entered into the contract.” (Id. at p. 13.) 
 
          Economic
Loss Rule
 
The economic loss rule bars tort recovery for breach of a
contact duty, unless: (1) the plaintiff “demonstrate[s] the defendant’s
injury-causing conduct violated a duty that is independent of the duties and
rights assumed by the parties when they entered the contract”; and (2) “the
defendant’s conduct must have caused injury to persons or property that was not
reasonably contemplated by the parties when the contract was formed.” (Rattagan,
supra, 17 Cal.5th at pp. 20-21.)
 
The economic loss rule does not apply where the conduct
giving rise to a fraudulent inducement claim is distinct from the alleged
subsequent conduct in breaching a warranty contract. (See Dhital, supra,
84 Cal.App.5th at p. 841 [“[H]ere, plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement claim
alleges presale conduct by Nissan (concealment) that is distinct from Nissan’s alleged subsequent
conduct in breaching its warranty obligations.”].)
 
Extent of the
Contractual Relationship
 
To determine whether the economic loss rule bars a tortious claim, the
court must: (1) ascertain the full scope of the parties’ contractual agreement;
(2) determine whether the plaintiff has adequately plead an independent duty to
refrain from tortious conduct exists; and (3) determine whether the plaintiff
can establish all elements of the tort independent of the rights and duties
assumed by the parties under the contract. (Id. at p. 38.)
 
Here, the FAC’s factual allegations focus on Defendant’s pre-contractual
conduct and knowledge of these defects before Plaintiffs signed the warranty
agreement. The FAC alleges fraudulent inducement based upon Defendant’s failure
to disclose defects and nonconformities in the Subject Vehicle. The FAC alleges
the parties entered into a warranty agreement for the Subject Vehicle which
included a bumper-to-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, and an emission
warranty. (FAC, ¶¶ 6-7.) The FAC states Defendant knew of the alleged defects
and nonconformities and made misrepresentations to Plaintiffs prior to entering
into the agreement.
 
Thus, the Court finds that the economic loss rule does not bar
Plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement claim.
 
          Duty to disclose
 
An independent duty to disclose a material fact may arise when (1)
imposed by statute; (2) “ the defendant is acting as plaintiff’s fiduciary
or is in some other confidential relationship with plaintiff that imposes a disclosure
duty under the circumstances”; (3) the material fact is known or accessible
only to the defendant, and the defendant knows the facts are not known or
reasonably discoverable to the plaintiff; (4) the defendant “makes
representations but fails to disclose other facts that materially qualify
the facts disclosed or render the disclosure misleading”; or (5) the “defendant
actively conceals discovery of material fact from plaintiff (i.e., active
concealment).” (Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 40.)
 
Circumstances 3, 4, and 5 arise when the plaintiff and defendant have a
preexisting transactional relationship such as “‘between seller and buyer.’
(Citation)” (Ibid.; see also LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 337 [“All of these relationships are created by transactions
between parties from which a duty to disclose facts material to the transaction
arises under certain circumstances.”].) The transactional relationship must
arise from the “direct dealings” between the parties rather than the public at
large. (Ibid.; see also Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294.)
 
The Court finds the FAC fails to sufficiently plead facts giving rise to
a duty to disclose under a theory of fraud because the FAC does not allege a
transactional relationship between Plaintiffs and Defendant. The FAC does not
allege a transactional buyer-seller relationship, where Plaintiffs purchased
the Subject Vehicle directly from Defendant. The FAC states the parties
executed a warranty agreement. The FAC alleges Defendant had a duty to disclose
the defective nature of the Subject Vehicle, the transmission issues, its
safety consequences, and the associated repair costs because Defendant had
prior knowledge of material defects with the 8-speed transmission prior to
Plaintiffs’ purchase of the Subject Vehicle. (FAC, ¶ 77(a)-(c).) Although the
FAC includes specific dates on which Defendant acknowledged and discussed the
issues with the transmission, the FAC does not allege the basis of the duty to
disclose: a direct transactional relationship between Plaintiffs as buyers of
the Subject Vehicle from Defendant as seller. The FAC also fails to allege
facts showing that only Defendant had access to the knowledge of the defects.
Thus, the FAC does not sufficiently allege a transactional relationship giving
rise to a duty to disclose. Without alleging this duty, the FAC fails to allege
a claim for fraudulent inducement.  
 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for
fraudulent inducement is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
          Motion to Strike –
Punitive Damages
 
Defendant moves to strike punitive damages from the FAC on the grounds
that claims based upon contractual breaches do not give rise to punitive
damages. Defendant argues that the FAC’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent
inducement fails to state facts describing Defendant’s state of mind or motive
to cause harm. (Motion to Strike, p. 4:25-28.) Defendant also notes Plaintiffs’
failure to allege what specific representations Defendant made about the
Subject Vehicle and its transmission, and whether Defendant’s agent made any
such representations. (Motion to Strike, p. 4:15-22.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to punitive damages
for the fraudulent inducement cause of action because the FAC alleges specific
conduct, outside the warranty contract, giving rise to punitive damages.
Plaintiffs also argue the economic loss doctrine does not apply here because
Plaintiffs base their fraudulent inducement claim on Defendant’s conduct before
the parties signed the warranty contract. 
 
                   Punitive
Damages
 
“The Song–Beverly Act authorizes
civil penalties of up to two times the amount of actual damages for violations.” (Romo
v. FFG Ins. Co. (C.D. Cal. 2005) 397 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1240 [citing Civ. Code,
§ 1794, subds. (c)-(d).].) “While these civil penalties are not punitive
damages per se, the California courts have, on numerous occasions, analogized
the two because both are intended to punish and deter defendants rather than
compensate plaintiffs.” (Ibid. [citing Suman v. Superior Court (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 1309, 1317.].) Plaintiffs need only allege causes of action for
breach of warranty under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
The statutory elements for
punitive damages require that a defendant is guilty of “fraud, oppression, or
malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Fraud” is “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).) “When a statute recognizes a cause of action for
violation of a right, all forms of relief granted to civil litigants generally,
including appropriate punitive damages, are available unless a contrary
legislative intent appears.” (Commodore Home Systems, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 211, 215 [authorizing punitive damages in an FEHA action].) 
 
The court finds that the FAC sufficiently alleges breaches of warranty under
the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action to support claims for
Song-Beverly civil penalties. 
 
However, because the court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the
fraudulent inducement claim, Plaintiffs’ one tort claim, Plaintiffs cannot pray
for punitive damages on that cause of action.
 
Therefore, the motion to strike as to punitive damages for the fifth
cause of action is GRANTED in part with 20 days leave to amend.  The motion to strike for “punitive” damages
for the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action is DENIED in part. 
 


