 Case Number:  23NWCV01978    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  C MARTIN RAMIREZ-LUCERO v. SOUTHWEST PROCESSORS, INC., ET AL.
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV01978
HEARING:
  11/13/24 @ 9:30 A.M. 
 
#6
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.               
Defendant Southwest Processors, Inc.’s motion to compel further
responses to Employment Form Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED. No
sanctions.   
 
II.             
Defendant Southwest Processors, Inc.’s motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED. No sanctions. 
 
III.           
Defendant Southwest Processors, Inc.’s motion to compel further
responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is GRANTED. No
sanctions.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 2, 2021, Plaintiff Martin Ramirez-Lucero
was working for Defendant Southwest Processors, Inc., and a disagreement
occurred between Plaintiff and Defendant Jose Ricardo Juarez, another employee
of Defendant Southwest Processors, Inc. Defendant Juarez allegedly assaulted
and battered Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff sues both defendants for the
following: (1) negligence; (2) assault; and (3) battery. Defendant Southwest
Processors, Inc. crossclaims against PriorityWorkforce, Inc., a staffing
agency. (XC, ¶ 2.) 
 
Defendant Southwest Processors, Inc. moves to
compel further responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) Special
Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production of Documents (Set One). 
 
The gist of Defendant Southwest Processors,
Inc.’s argument is that Plaintiff has not responded or produced documents
relating to his workers’ compensation case against his staffing agency,
PriorityWorkforce, regarding the same alleged incident and injuries. Defendant further
argues that Plaintiff misapplies the collateral source rule. 
 
TIMELINESS
 
Notice of the motion to compel further must
be provided within 45 days of service of the response or on or before any
specific later date to which the parties have agreed. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (c).) This 45-day deadline runs from the date the verified
response is served and is extended for service by mail in accordance with Code
of Civil Procedure sections 1010.6, subdivision (a)(4) and 1013, subdivision
(a). Failure to timely move to compel within the specified period constitutes a
waiver of any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).) 
 
The 45-day rule to bring a motion to compel
is mandatory and jurisdictional “in the sense that it renders court without
authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them.” (Sexton v.
Super. Ct. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Counsel agreed to extend Plaintiff’s time to
move to compel further responses to all discovery to September 24, 2024. (Decl.
Vanderpool, ¶ 11, Ex. 7.) 
 
Defendant filed the instant motions on
September 24, 2024. Thus, the motions are timely. 
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  A meet and confer declaration in support of a
motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.) 
 
For purposes of determining whether a motion
to compel discovery was preceded by a reasonable and good faith effort to meet
and confer, such a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
entails something more than bickering with opposing counsel; rather, the law
requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views,
consult, and deliberate. (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277,
1294.) 
 
The Court finds that the parties met and
conferred in good faith. (Decl. Vanderpool, ¶¶ 6 to 9.) 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
An order compelling discovery must rest on a
showing that the discovery is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence….’"  (Cadiz Land Co. v.
Rail Cycle (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 74, 117.) The burden rests upon the party
seeking the discovery to provide evidence from which the court may determine
these conditions are met. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Super. Ct.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) If a timely motion to compel has been
filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or
failure to fully answer the interrogatories. (Coy v. Super. Ct. (Wolcher)
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Employment Form Interrogatories, Set One
 
Defendant
moves to compel further responses to Employment Form Interrogatories (“EFI”)
Nos. 200.3, 208.1, and 209.1. 

 
·       EFI No. 200.3: Do you
contend that the EMPLOYMENT relationship was governed by any agreement -- written,
oral, or implied? If so: (a) state all facts upon which you base this
contention; (b) state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON
who has knowledge of those facts; and (c) identify all DOCUMENTS that support
your contention.
 
“An order compelling
discovery must rest on a showing that the discovery is reasonably calculated to
lead to admissible evidence….’"  (Cadiz
Land Co. v. Rail Cycle (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 74, 117.) The burden rests
upon the party seeking the discovery to provide evidence from which the court
may determine these conditions are met. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) If a
timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party
to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the interrogatories. (Coy
v. Super. Ct. (Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that he should not be
compelled to answer an Employment Form Interrogatory because this is not an
employment case, it is a personal injury case. 
Defendant argues that the request is reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence because Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendant owed him duties as his employer and breached them; therefore, an
employment agreement likely governs the scope of those duties.  The Court finds that the request is within
the proper scope of discovery because it relates to the scope of duty Defendant
may owe to Plaintiff.  
 
The motion to compel further the response to Employment Form Interrogatory No. 200.3 is GRANTED.  
 

 
·       EFI No. 208.1: Did the
EMPLOYEE file a claim, complaint, or charge with any governmental agency that
involved any of the material allegations made in the PLEADINGS? If so, for each
claim, complaint, or charge: (a) state the date on which it was filed; (b)
state the name and ADDRESS of the agency with which it was filed; (c) state the
number assigned to the claim, complaint, or charge by the agency; (d) state the
nature of each claim, complaint, or charge made; (e) state the date on which
the EMPLOYER was notified of the claim, complaint, or charge; (f) state the
name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of all PERSONS within the governmental
agency with whom the EMPLOYER has had any contact or communication regarding
the claim, complaint, or charge; (g) state whether a right to sue notice was
issued and, if so, when; and (h) state whether any findings or conclusions
regarding the complaint or charge have been made, and, if so, the date and
description of the agency’s findings or conclusions.
 
Defendant
argues that the interrogatory seeks facts regarding other claims Plaintiff has
made about the same events alleged in his Complaint.  Plaintiff repeats the same arguments
referenced above.  The Court determines
that the request is within the proper scope of discovery because it relates to
the same events as alleged in the Complaint. 

 
The motion to compel further response to Employment Form Interrogatory No. 208.1 is GRANTED.  

 
·       EFI No. 209.1: Except
for this action, in the past 10 years has the EMPLOYEE filed a civil action
against any employer regarding the EMPLOYEE’S employment?  If so, for each civil action: (a) state the
name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each employer against whom the action
was filed; (b) state the court, names of the parties, and case number of the
civil action; (c) state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of any attorney
representing the EMPLOYEE; and (d) state whether the action has been resolved
or is pending.
 
Defendant
argues that information regarding civil cases Plaintiff has brought may reveal
information about Plaintiff’s prior work injury and may be relevant to
Plaintiff’s credibility as a witness or Plaintiff’s biases.  Plaintiff repeats the same arguments
referenced above.  The Court determines
that the request is within the proper scope of discovery because it relates to
prior work injuries Plaintiff may have suffered.  
 
The motion to compel further the response to Employment Form Interrogatory No. 209.1 is GRANTED.  
 
Special
Interrogatories, Set One 
 
Special
Interrogatory (“SI”) Nos. 47 through 50 are generally about compensation
Plaintiff received from other people for the injuries he suffered, including
PriorityWorkforce, Inc. 
 
·       SI No. 47: If YOU have
received compensation from any PERSON for the injuries alleged in YOUR
COMPLAINT, state all reasons regarding why YOU received such compensation.
·       SI No. 48: If YOU have
received compensation from any PERSON for the injuries alleged in YOUR
COMPLAINT, IDENTIFY each PERSON who has compensated YOU.
·       SI No. 49: For each
PERSON YOU IDENTIFIED in response to Propounding Party's Special Interrogatory
No. 48, state the amount of each payment YOU received from each PERSON.
·       SI No. 50: For each
PERSON YOU IDENTIFIED in response to Propounding Party's Special Interrogatory
No. 48, IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that contain evidence of each payment YOU
received from each PERSON.
 
Plaintiff
argues that under the collateral source rule a plaintiff’s recovery should not
be diminished by benefits received from other sources, such as insurance
payments or discounted rates negotiated by medical providers with insurers.
Plaintiff also argues that Howell does not apply where the plaintiff
initially incurs the provider’s customary medical charges but later obtains the
benefit of a reduction, write-off, or waiver. In addition, Plaintiff has
already provided medical and billing records in response to Defendant’s Request
for Production of Documents. 
 
Defendant
argues that evidence of payments and settlements may address the extent of
Plaintiff’s injury, the Plaintiff’s motive in bringing the lawsuit, or the
Plaintiff’s bias or credibility as a witness. Defendant also argues that the
collateral source rule does not apply because it relates to the admissibility
of evidence, and it does not apply to payments received by a joint tortfeasor
or its insurance company. Defendant further argues that PriorityWorkforce, Inc.
is a joint tortfeasor. 
 
The “collateral source
rule” provides that where the plaintiff obtains compensation from his own insurer or a source independent of the tortfeasor,
plaintiff's tort recovery is not reduced. (Krusi v. Bear, Stearns & Co.
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 664, 674.) As the California Supreme Court explains, the
rule’s purpose is to encourage citizens to purchase and maintain insurance for
personal injuries and for other eventualities. (Ibid.) The Supreme Court
distinguished payments from co-tortfeasors. (Ibid.) 
 
Determining whether PriorityWorkforce,
Inc. is a co-tortfeasor is beyond the scope of this ruling. (Krusi v. Bear,
Stearns & Co., supra, 144 Cal.App.3d at pg. 675.) Because it is difficult
to define at the discovery stage what evidence will be relevant at trial, the
party seeking discovery is entitled to substantial leeway. (Norton v. Super. Court (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761.) In addition, California courts have generally resolved
any doubt in favor of permitting discovery. (Ibid.) Courts have taken
the view that if it makes an error in ruling on a discovery motion, it is
better that it be made in favor of granting discovery of the nondiscoverable
rather than denying discovery of information vital to preparation or
presentation of the party's case or to efficacious settlement of the dispute. (Ibid.) The Court determines that the requests are
within the proper scope of discovery because they relate to the same injuries
alleged in the Complaint.  Any privacy
concerns Plaintiff may have can be addressed with a protective order.  

 
The motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 47 through 50 is GRANTED.  
 
Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One
 
Request for Production
of Documents (“RFP”) Nos. 10, 16, and 21 are generally about Plaintiff’s worker
compensation claims and payments made.  
 
·       RFP No. 10: All
DOCUMENTS, including communications and/or ESI, REFERRING or RELATING to any
claim for Workers’ Compensation, including but not limited to, with the
California Division of Workers’ Compensation (DWC), regarding injuries YOU
claim to have sustained as a result of the August 2, 2021 incident.
·       RFP No. 16: All
DOCUMENTS, including communications and/or ESI, sufficient to show any payments
made to YOU RELATING TO the injuries YOU allege in YOUR COMPLAINT.
·       RFP No. 21: All
DOCUMENTS, including communications and/or ESI, REFERRING or RELATING to any
claim for Workers' Compensation, including but not limited to, with the
California Division of Workers' Compensation (DWC), regarding injuries YOU
claim to have sustained in the past ten years.
 
Plaintiff argues that the requests for “all
documents” is overbroad and in violation of Plaintiff’s right to privacy and
the collateral source rule.  Defendant
argues that the request is narrowly tailored to documents relating to any
workers’ compensation claim Plaintiff has brought relating to the injures
allegedly caused by the August 2, 2021 incident.  For the reasons
stated above, the Court determines
that the requests are within the proper scope of discovery because they relate
to the same injuries alleged in the Complaint. 
Any privacy concerns Plaintiff may have can be addressed with a
protective order.  

 
The motion to compel further responses to Request
for Production Nos. 10, 16 and 21 are GRANTED. 

 
Sanctions
 
In a
motion to compel further discovery responses, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) 
 
The
Court finds that the parties faced an intractable dispute over the collateral
source rule and privacy concerns relating to the information sought.  The parties generally cooperated in the meet
and confer process.  Under the
circumstances here, the Court declines to impose sanctions.  