 Case Number:  23NWCV01391    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  C WILLIE SUTTON v. LIF
CONSULTING, ET AL.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01391
HEARING:  11/13/24
 
#10
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Cross-Defendant Wilber Ernesto Flores Vizcarra’s Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is DENIED without prejudice.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This action arises from an automobile collision which
occurred on December 15, 2022, in Los Angeles County, California. On May 8,
2023, Plaintiff Willie Sutton (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Lif Consulting dba Woodridge Transport (“Lif Consulting”), David
Richard Frame (“Frame”), and DOES 1-10 alleging a single cause of action for
negligence. 
 
On May 23, 2023, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Lif
Consulting and Frame (collective, the “Lif Parties”) filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendant Wilbur Ernesto Flores Vizcarra (“Vizcarra”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) comparative partial/implied
indemnity; and (3) declaratory relief. 
 
Also, on May 23, 2023, the Lif Parties filed a joint answer
to the complaint. 
 
On December 1, 2023, Cross-Defendant Vizcarra filed an
answer to the cross-complaint filed by the Lif Parties. 
 
Also, on December 1, 2023, Cross-Defendant Vizcarra filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff alleging causes of action for: (1) express
contractual indemnity; and (2) declaratory relief. 
 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an answer to
Cross-Defendant Vizcarra’s cross-complaint. 
 
On August 28, 2024, Cross-Defendant Vizcarra filed the
instant motion for determination of good faith settlement and seeks “an [o]rder
determining that the settlement agreement between the moving party and
Plaintiff . . . was entered into in good faith and . . . that this Court should
issue an order dismissing with prejudice all complaints and cross-complaints,
filed or anticipated, seeking indemnification and/or contribution from this
settling party.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:2-6.) 
 
On September 5, 2024, Cross-Defendant Vizcarra filed an ex
parte application for an order granting the motion for determination of
good faith settlement or, alternatively, shortening the time for hearing. The ex
parte application was opposed by the Lif Parties, and Cross-Defendant
Vizcarra replied. 
 
On September 9, 2024, the Court granted the ex parte application
and advanced the hearing on the motion to September 9, 2024, and continued the
hearing on the motion to November 13, 2024. (09/09/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) 
 
On October 30, 2024, the Lif Parties filed and served an
opposition to the motion for determination of good faith settlement. 
 
On November 5, 2024, Cross-Defendant Vizcarra filed and
served a reply brief. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more parties
are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a
hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the
plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors,
upon giving notice in the manner provided by subdivision (b) of Section 1005.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
“In the alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to
all parties and to the court, together with an application for determination of
good faith settlement and a proposed order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(2).) “The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis,
terms, and amount of the settlement.” (Ibid.) “The notice,
application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service.” (Ibid.) “Proof of
service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the
notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service,
a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good faith
settlement.” (Ibid.) “If none of the nonsettling parties files a
motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed
order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the
settlement.” (Ibid.) 
 
“The issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the
court on the basis of the affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
“A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall
bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against
the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) 
 
When determining whether a settlement was made in good faith, the
following factors are considered: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4)
a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling
defendants. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
 
“The ultimate determinant of good faith is whether the settlement is
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time of settlement
would estimate the settlor’s liability to be.” (City of Grand Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262 [citation omitted].) “[A]
good faith settlement does not call for perfect or even nearly perfect
apportionment of liability.” (Abbott Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987)
43 Cal.3d 858, 875 [internal quotations omitted].) “[O]nly when the good faith
nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to
consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors.” (City of Grand Terrace v.
Superior Court, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) 
 
Evidence in Support of the Motion
 
In support of the
motion, counsel for Cross-Defendant Vizcarra, Adam A. Chavez (“Chavez”),
provides a declaration. Mr. Chavez relevantly declares that: On December 15,
2022, a motor vehicle accident occurred on Interstate 5 in La Mirada,
California involving Cross-Defendant Vizcarra, Plaintiff, and
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Frame. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 3.) On March 29, 2023,
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Vizcarra entered into a “BODILY INJURY ONLY
RELEASE” agreement. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A.) Cross-Defendant Vizcarra has
agreed to pay $15,000.00 to settle Plaintiff’s claims in this matter, which is
the entirety of their policy limits. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 8.) Consequently, the
amount offered in settlement is a proportionate share of what a reasonable
person, at the time of settling, who estimate Cross-Defendant Vizcarra’s
liability to be given the nature of the damages alleged and liability
contentions. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 8.) The proposed settlement would be less than
recovery at trial, even for the same amount, should Plaintiff be entitled to
the substantial costs incurred as a result of the protracted litigation of this
matter. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 9.) There is no evidence of collusion between the
parties. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 10.) Counsel for Cross-Defendant Vizcarra and
Plaintiff reached a settlement pre-litigation. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 10.) 
 
Evidence in
Opposition to the Motion

 
In opposition to the motion, counsel for the Lif Parties,
Omar Subat (“Subat”), provides a declaration. Mr. Subat relevantly states that:
the investigating officer concluded that Cross-Defendant Vizcarra was cause of
the collision by driving at 65-70 miles per hour behind Plaintiff while under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage. (Subat Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A.) Counsel
states that neither Cross-Defendant Vizcarra nor Plaintiff have reliable
memories of what caused the subject collision. (Subat Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Exs. B,
C.) An eyewitness testified at deposition that he did not see any other vehicle
besides that of Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Vizcarra involved in the subject
collision. (Subat Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. E.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that he suffered from traumatic brain
injury symptoms and that he suffered from daily neck and back pain. (Subat
Decl., ¶ 8; Ex. F.) Plaintiff was advised by his doctors that he may need
surgeries for his neck and back. (Subat Decl., ¶ 8; Ex. F.) Counsel states that
Cross-Defendant Vizcarra’s proposed settlement of $15,000.00 does not reflect
anything close to his proportional liability for the significant claims made by
Plaintiff, including TBI and future neck and back surgery, all for an accident
which he bears sole responsibility for. (Subat Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
Analysis
 
The Court finds that not all of the Tech-Bilt factors
have been satisfied. Cross-Defendant Vizcarra has failed to provide a rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s recovery and Cross-Defendant Vizcarra’s
proportionate share of liability. Neither the motion nor the declaration of Mr.
Chavez sets forth facts to satisfy this factor. 
 
Moreover, given that the Lif Parties have presented evidence
that they were not involved in the accident and that Cross-Defendant Vizcarra
was the sole cause, the Court has doubts as to whether a settlement amount of
$15,000.00 is “within the reasonable range or ballpark” of Cross-Defendant
Vizcarra’s share of liability for Plaintiff’s injuries. (Mattco Forge, Inc.
v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351.)
Cross-Defendant Vizcarra has failed to present substantial evidence as to his
proportionate liability. (Id. at p. 1350.) Where there is no substantial
evidence to support the nature and extent of a settling defendant’s liability,
“a determination of good faith . . . is an abuse of discretion.” (Ibid.)  
 
Additionally, the Court notes that the declaration of Mr.
Chavez is silent on Cross-Defendant Vizcarra’s financial condition. Such factor
is relevant to determining whether a settlement was entered into in good faith.
(Mattco Forge, supra, 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.) Moreover, the
declaration of Mr. Chavez does not attest to the lack of fraud or tortious
conduct in reaching the settlement. (Ibid.) 
 
“In law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to
the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) The declaration of Mr. Chavez does
not sufficiently articulate all the required Tech-Bilt factors. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion for determination of good
faith settlement is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
 