 Case Number:  23NWCV01410    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  C CHABOLLA, et al. v. HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01410
HEARING:  11/13/24
 
#4
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s motion compel
arbitration is GRANTED.  The matter is
STAYED pending completion of arbitration. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law case. Plaintiffs Arturo Chabolla and
Miriam Vilchis Perez (Plaintiffs) filed this action May 9, 2023, alleging
causes of action against Defendant Hyundai Motor America (Defendant) for
violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, Breach of
Implied Warranty, and section 1793.2, in connection with a vehicle (a 2022
Hyundai Santa Fe) purchased on December 28, 2021. 
 
Defendant filed this motion to compel arbitration on June
20, 2024. Plaintiffs filed an opposition on October 30, 2024. Defendant filed a
reply on November 5, 2024. 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Parties may be
compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a
valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) the agreement covers
the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) “The party
seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the petition a
copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the¿respondent’s
signature. (Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544.) A party moving to compel arbitration
has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate
and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner
Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)
 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This
is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements
under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), which governs all agreements to
arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et
seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)
Unless the procedural provisions of the FAA are expressly incorporated into an
arbitration agreement, the California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs the
procedural rules for a motion to compel arbitration. (Victrola 89, LLC v.
Jaman Properties 8, LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345.)
 
Preliminary Issues
 
The Court notes that Defendant’s motion exceeds the 15-page
limit set forth in the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1113(d).) A memorandum that exceeds this page limit is treated the same as
having been filed late. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(g).) Nevertheless,
there being no objection to Defendant’s oversized opening memorandum, the Court
exercises its discretion to still consider the motion. (Juarez v. Wash Depot
Holdings, Inc. (2012) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) The Court admonishes
Defendant to comply with the California Rules of Court going forward.
 
The Court notes Defendant’s request for judicial notice of
Plaintiffs’ complaint filed May 9, 2023, on the basis that the court may take
judicial notice of its records under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(d). (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice No. 1, Exh. 1.) The court GRANTS
Defendant’s request.
 
The Court also notes that Defendant submitted an additional
declaration with its reply. Generally, new evidence is not permitted on reply
unless it fills in gaps in the evidence created by the opposing party’s
opposition and is not raising new substantive issues for the first time;
otherwise, a further hearing would be required to permit the opposing party to
respond. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.) Plaintiffs
oppose this additional declaration 
on the grounds that Defendant should have attached the declaration,
and the five judicial opinions attached to the declaration, to its moving
papers because all the cases were decided before Defendant filed its motion. Additionally,
Plaintiffs note that two of the cases (Los Angeles Superior Court cases) are
not persuasive. Further, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant provides no
extraordinary circumstances for allowing the declaration and attached cases.
(Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary Objections, p. ii.) The Court SUSTAINS Plaintiffs’
objection.
 
Existence of a Valid Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant has attached a copy of the Retail Installment
Sales Contract (the RISC) for Plaintiffs’ purchase of the subject vehicle.
(Declaration of Ali Ameripour [Ameripour Decl.], Exh. 2.) The RISC contains an
arbitration provision governing disputes arising thereunder (the Arbitration Provision).
(Ameripour Decl., Exh. 2, p. 2.). The Arbitration Agreement states that
 
1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO
HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY
TRIAL. 
 
2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU
WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS
MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS
ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS. 
 
3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN
ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT
YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including interpretation of this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between
you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of
or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle,
this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action. . . . 
 
Any arbitration under this Arbitration
Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et.
seq.) and not by any state law concerning arbitration. 
 
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant has also attached a copy of the 2022 Hyundai Owner’s
Handbook Warranty Information for the subject vehicle. (Ameripour Decl., Exh. 3.)
The warranty information also contains an alternative dispute provision
governing any claim or disputes regarding Hyundai vehicles purchased or leased
in California. (Ameripour Decl., Exh. 3, pp. 12-14.) The provision states that:

 
BINDING ARBITRATION FOR CALIFORNIA
VEHICLES ONLY 
 
PLEASE READ THIS SECTION IN ITS
ENTIRETY AS IT AFFECTS YOUR RIGHTS THIS SECTION DOES NOT PRECLUDE YOU FROM
FIRST PURSUING ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION THROUGH BBB AUTO LINE AS
DESCRIBED IN THE “ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION” PROVISION IN SECTION 3 OF THIS
HANDBOOK.
 
If you purchased or leased your Hyundai
vehicle in the State of California, you and we, Hyundai Motor America, each
agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between you and any of
our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle purchase,
advertising for the vehicle, use of your vehicle, the performance of the
vehicle, any service relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty,
representations in the warranty, or the duties contemplated under the warranty,
including without limitation claims related to false or misleading advertising,
unfair competition, breach of contract or warranty, the failure to conform a
vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims
for a refund or partial refund of your vehicle's purchase price (excluding
personal injury claims), but excluding claims brought under the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act, shall be resolved by binding arbitration at either your or our
election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of law. If either you
or we elect to resolve our dispute via arbitration (as opposed to in a court of
law), such binding arbitration shall be administered by and through JAMS
Mediation, Arbitration and ADR Services (JAMS) under its Streamlined
Arbitration Rules & Procedures, or the American Arbitration Association
(AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.
 
We will pay all fees for any
arbitration except for the initial filing fee of $250 SECTION 4 for JAMS or
$200 for AAA. The arbitration will be held in the city or county of your
residence. To learn more about arbitration, including the applicable rules and
how to commence arbitration, please contact:
 
JAMS at www.jamsadr.org; 800-352-5267;
or AAA at www.adr.org; 800-778-7879. 
 
This agreement to arbitrate is intended
to be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us
(including our affiliated companies) relating to or arising out of your vehicle
purchase, use or performance of your vehicle, or the vehicle warranty subject
to arbitration to the maximum extent permitted by law. The arbitrator (and not
a court) shall decide all issues of interpretation, scope, and application of
this agreement.
 
* * * * 
 
Notwithstanding the above, either you
or we may file a lawsuit in small claims court for any claims that otherwise
require binding arbitration, if the small claims court has jurisdiction. In
addition, either you or we may invoke any JAMS Streamlined Arbitration Rules
& Procedures or AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules that allow you or we to have
a small claims court decide any claims that otherwise require binding
arbitration. This agreement evidences a transaction involving interstate
commerce and shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§
1-16. Judgment upon any award in arbitration may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction.
 
IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR
VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS
BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY USING THE VEHICLE, OR REQUESTING OR ACCEPTING
BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER
WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE
TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR
PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.
 
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs allege claims under the Song-Beverly Act for
breach of express warranty, breach of implied warranty, and violation of
section 1793.2. Plaintiffs do not bring claims under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty
Act. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue they never agreed to
arbitrate any claims under the RISC. Plaintiffs state Defendant cannot use the
doctrine of equitable estoppel to argue Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly claims are
intertwined with the RISC thus making their claims arise under the RISC. Additionally,
Plaintiffs do not bring claims under the express terms of a sales contract, but
under a separate warranty agreement. Plaintiffs state they never agreed to
arbitrate claims under the warranty information attached as Defendant’s exhibit
3. Defendant fails to show mutual assent to the warranty information attached
to Defendant’s motion and fails to provide evidence, such as communications
between Defendant and Plaintiffs or notice of intent to arbitrate warranty
claims. Simply providing a copy of the warranty booklet, without Plaintiffs’
signature, is silence which is not enough to show mutual assent to an
arbitration agreement. 
 
In reply, Defendant argues mutual assent exists by pointing
to the allegations in Plaintiffs’ complaint. (Compl., ¶ 4 [“These causes of
action arise out of the warranty obligations of HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA in
connection with a motor vehicle for which HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA issued a
written warranty.].) Defendant notes that Plaintiff Perez admits seeing the
warranty information in the glove compartment box of the subject vehicle.
(Declaration of Miriam Vilchis Perez, ¶ 8.) Defendant also argues that because
Plaintiffs have accepted the benefits of the warranty information by bringing
their claims, they cannot then attempt “to avoid its application in defining
the forum in which her or her dispute should be resolved.” (Reply, p. 2:10-11
[quoting Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 496.].)
 
“[A] party is not
entitled to make use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause] as long
as it worked to [his or] her advantage, then attempt to avoid its application
in defining the forum in which [his or] her dispute… should be resolved.” (Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 496.) Plaintiff relies on the
existence of the warranty in order to maintain causes of action under the
Song-Beverly Warranty Act and breach of warranty claims. The doctrine of
equitable estoppel is meant to “prevent a party from playing fast and loose
with its commitment to arbitrate, honoring it when advantageous and
circumventing it to gain undue advantage.” (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana
Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705,
1714.) 
The Court determines
that Defendant has met its burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement in the Warranty which covers the subject of this
lawsuit.  
 
Plaintiff relies
upon Norcia v. Samsung Telcoms. Am., LLC (2017) 845 F.3d 1279 for the
proposition that “[a] seller is bound by an express warranties given to the
buyer … but a warranty does not impose binding obligations on the buyer.” (Id.,
at 1288.) According to Plaintiff, a buyer such as himself may reap the benefits
of a warranty (e.g., a product free of defects) while avoiding its obligations
(e.g., submitting to binding arbitration). 
Plaintiff’s reliance upon Norcia is misplaced.  The Plaintiff in Norcia did not bring
any claims for breach of warranty, and the court did not determine whether
Plaintiff was equitably estopped from refusing to arbitrate.  
 
Equitable estoppel
was applied in the context of an arbitration agreement in Boucher v.
Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, a case
relied upon by Defendant.  There, the
court stated the well-settled rule that “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and
intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (Id., at 271.).
It is immaterial that Plaintiff did not sign the warranty at issue in this case.  “The fundamental point is that a party may
not make use of a contract containing an arbitration clause and then attempt to
avoid the duty to arbitrate by defining the forum in which the dispute will be
resolved.” (Id, at 272.) Here, the Court determines that arbitration is compelled
under the arbitration agreement found in the warranty.  
 
Plaintiff does not
argue that the arbitration agreement is procedurally or substantively unconscionable.  
 
Given the discussion
above, the Court does not address Defendant’s argument that arbitration should
be compelled under the RISC.  
 
The motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED.  The matter is
STAYED pending completion of arbitration. 
