 Case Number:  22NWCV01091    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  C ELAINE M. SIMMONS,
ET AL. v. COLIMA PROFESSIONAL BUILDING, LLC, ET AL.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01091
HEARING:  11/13/24
 
#9
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiffs Elaine M. Simmons and Janet K. Cunningham’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 

 
Opposing party to give notice. 
 
This action arises from the alleged breach of a lease
agreement pertaining to property located at 9209 Colima Road in Whittier,
California. On October 24, 2022, Plaintiffs Elaine M. Simmons (“Simmons”) and
Janet K. Cunningham (“Cunningham”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Colima Professional Building (“CPB”), Victor Fahmy
Khalil (“Khalil”), and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive (collectively,
“Defendants”), alleging causes of action for: (1) specific performance; (2)
breach of contract; (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
and (4) declaratory relief.  
 
On May 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) specific performance; (2) breach of
contract; and (3) declaratory relief. 
 
On November 9, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend. (11/09/23 Minute
Order.) 
 
On November 27, 2023, the operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) was filed, which alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract;
and (2) declaratory relief. 
 
On December 28, 2023, Defendants filed a joint answer to the
SAC which alleges, among other affirmative defenses, an affirmative defense of
waiver/release. 
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed and served the instant
motion for summary adjudication of the claim for declaratory relief. Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication on the grounds “that the undisputed facts
establish that Defendants are obligated to participate in good faith in the
appraisal process and establishment of a new rental amount pursuant to the
terms of the lease regarding the property located at 9209 Colima Road,
Whittier, California, and shall be ordered to do so.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 1:6-9.)

On October 30, 2024, Defendants filed and served an
opposition to the motion. 
 
As of November 6, 2024, no reply brief has been filed. Any
reply brief was required to have been filed and served at least five court days
prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Evidentiary Objections 
 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ evidentiary objection number
1 to the declaration of Janet K. Cunningham in support of the motion on the
grounds of hearsay. 
 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ evidentiary objections
numbers 2, 3 ,4, and 5 to the declaration of Michael S. Magnuson in support of
the motion on the grounds of hearsay.
 
The Court OVERRULES Defendants’ evidentiary objection number
6 to the declaration of Michael S. Magnuson. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or
declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within
the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67.) 
 
“[A] plaintiff [moving for summary adjudication] bears the
burden of persuasion that each element of the cause of action in question has
been proved, and hence there is no defense thereto.” (Beebe v. Wonderful
Pistachios & Almonds LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 351, 370, internal
quotations omitted.) 
 
A plaintiff may “move for summary adjudication of a cause of
action, if the plaintiff asserts there is no defense to that cause of action.”
(Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226,
241.) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims
for damages . . . if the party contends that . . . there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, [or] that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).)  
 
A plaintiff moving for summary adjudication has met its
burden if it shows “that there is no defense to a cause of action” by showing
“each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Once the plaintiff
. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant . . . to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “The
defendant . . . shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists s
to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) 
 
Pertinent Allegations of the SAC 
 
The SAC alleges the following relevant facts: “Plaintiffs .
. . are individuals each owning and [sic] undivided 50% interest in certain
real property located at 9209 Colima Road, Whittier, California.” (SAC, ¶ 1.)
“On or about August 31, 1962, William L. Simmons, as owner, entered into a
written long-term lease with William G. Greschner Co. with respect to the real
property . . . .” (SAC, ¶ 6.) “The property and the Lease were subsequently
transferred to the Simmons Family Trust . . . plaintiffs herein, Elaine M.
Simmons and Janet K. Cunningham, each acquired a one-half interest in the
property and the Lease.” (SAC, ¶ 7.) “Defendant Khalil acquired lessee’s
interest in the Lease in or about November 1996. Mr. Khalil conveyed the
leasehold to his company, defendant Colima Professional Building, LLC, on or
about June 24, 2019.” (SAC, ¶ 8.) “The Lease is, and has since 1962, been in
full force and effect. The Lease establishes a procedure for adjusting the
annual rent every ten years based on six percent (6%) of the current appraised
value of the property.” (SAC, ¶ 9.) “Defendants are currently paying monthly
rent of $4,679.16. However, plaintiffs have informed and believe that the
actual value of the property (excluding improvements) is approximately
$6,000,000.00, and monthly rental, commencing January 1, 2023, should be about
$30,000.00.” (SAC, ¶ 10.) “By letters dated August 23, 2022, and September 14,
2022, plaintiff lessors gave notice to defendant lessees initiating the process
of setting a new rental amount which will go into effect as of January 1, 2023
. . . .” (SAC, ¶ 11.) “Plaintiff lessors received no response from defendants.”
(SAC, ¶ 11.) 
 
Concerning the second cause of action for declaratory
relief, Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s a result of defendants’ failure to comply
with the terms of the Lease an actual controversy exists between the parties as
to their right and obligations under the Lease in that plaintiffs contend that
they are entitled to a rent increase and defendants are required to comply with
provisions of the lease setting a new lease amount. Defendants deny that they
have any obligation to participate in setting a new rent amount or to pay an
increased monthly rent.” (SAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs seek a judicial determination
that: (1) the Lease between the parties is valid and enforceable as against
Defendants Khalil and Colima; (2) Defendants are in breach of the Lease as a
result of their failure to comply with provisions of the Lease establishing the
rental value of the property; and (3) Defendants be ordered to participate in
good faith in the appraisal process and establishment of a new rental amount
commencing as of January 1, 2023 and, alternatively, that Plaintiffs may
unilaterally obtain appraisal and establish a new rental amount. (SAC, ¶
21(a)-(c).) 
 
Analysis
 
A.  
Second Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief 
 
To state a cause of
action for declaratory relief, a plaintiff must show “(1) a proper subject of
declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the rights or obligations of a party.” (Lee v.
Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527, 546.) “The language of a contract is to
govern its interpretation, if the language is clear and explicit, and does not
involve an absurdity.” (Civ. Code § 1638.) “When a contract is reduced to
writing, the intention of the parties is to be ascertained from the writing
alone, if possible; subject, however, to other provisions of this Title.” (Civ.
Code § 1639.) “A contract must receive such an interpretation as will make it
lawful, operative, definite, reasonable, and capable of being carried into
effect, if it can be done without violating the intention of the parties.”
(Civ. Code § 1643.) 
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidence 
 
Plaintiffs present
the following undisputed material facts: On or about August 31, 1962, William
L. Simmons, an owner, entered into a written long-term lease with William G.
Greschner Co. with respect to the real property located at 9209 Colima Road,
Whittier, California. (Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts (PSUF) 1.) The property and the Lease were subsequently transferred to
the Simmons Family Trust. (PSUF 2.) On or about April 10, 2006, by distribution
from the trust, plaintiffs herein, Elaine M. Simmons and Janet K. Cunningham,
each acquired a one-half interest in the property and the Lease. (PSUF 2.) The
lease attached as Exhibit 1 to the Cunningham declaration is the lease that is
applicable and operative. (PSUF 4.) Defendant Khalil acquired lessee’s interest
in the Lease by assignment in or about June 1997. (PSUF 5.) The Lease
establishes a procedure for adjusting the annual rent every ten years based on
six percent of the current appraised value of the property. (PSUF 9.) The Lease
further provides that lessor and lessee are to try and agree to a new rental
amount during the period 30 days prior to each succeeding 10-year period and if
they are unable to agree, the new lease amount is set by an appraisal process.
(PSUF 10.) Defendants are currently paying monthly rent of $4,679.16. (PSUF
11.) Defendant Khalil has not made any rent adjustment at any time since he
acquired the leasehold interest in 1997. (PSUF 12.) Although he transferred
ownership of the leasehold interest to his LLC, Defendant Khalil acknowledges
that he is still personally obligated as lessee under the lease. (PSUF 27.) 
 
Plaintiffs also
present evidence that: Defendant Khalil transferred ownership of the building
located on the Colima real property to Defendant Colima, which is an entity
owned by Defendant Khalil. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. 4.) Defendant Khalil
failed to give notice to lessors of the intended assignment as required by the
Lease. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9 at p. 33:2.) Defendant Khalil has not
communicated with Plaintiffs at any time from January 1, 2019, to the present.
(Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9 at p. 15:1-4.) By letters from counsel dated August
23, 2022, and September 14, 2022, plaintiff lessors gave notice to defendant
lessees initiating the process of setting a new rental amount which would go
into effect as of January 1, 2023. (Magnuson Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; Exs. 5, 6.)
Plaintiff lessors received no response from Defendants to the August 23 and
September 14 letters. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 4.) There are currently close to about
15 tenants in the Colima Professional Building which is fully occupied.
(Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9 at p. 19:4-9.) Defendant Khalil testified that he
receives approximately $50,000 to $60,000 per month in rent. (Magnuson Decl., ¶
7; Ex. 9 at p. 36:13-17.) 
 
Defendant Khalil
believes that he has no obligation at this point to engage in any rent
adjustment and believes that he has no obligation to do anything unless someone
contacts him. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9 at p. 24:12-25.) Moreover, Defendant
Khalil states that he is under no obligation to initiate the process of
adjusting rent. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9 at p. 25:23-25.) Defendant Khalil
testified that if he is not contacted by the lessors then he has no obligation
to make a rent adjustment. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9 at p. 28:21.) Defendant
Khalil has not engaged in any process of negotiating with the lessors to
determine the value of the land. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9 at p. 31:6-10.) Defendant
Khalil has been sending payment to both Plaintiffs. (Magnuson Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. 9
at p. 43:14-21.) Defendant Khalil has never contacted Plaintiffs to attempt to
agree on the value of the land comprising the leased premises and has never
contacted Plaintiffs regarding an appraisal of the property. (Cunningham Decl.,
¶ 4.) 
 
Defendants’
Evidence
 
Defendant Khalil
presents a declaration in opposition to the motion. Defendant Khalil declares
the following: Plaintiffs have not individually contacted him at any time to
discuss a recalculation of the rent. (Khalil Decl., ¶ 4.) He has made sure that
payments for rent went out to Plaintiffs every month and he continues to do so
pursuant to the information that has been provided to him. (Khalil Decl., ¶ 5.)
He has looked for an appraiser to determine a fair price to purchase the land
which is the subject of this case. (Khalil Decl., ¶ 7.) He did not receive the
letters marked as Exhibit 5 or Exhibit 6 before August 31, 2022. (Khalil Decl.,
¶ 9.) Defendant Khalil indicates that he may not have fully understood the
questions asked during his deposition, but he did his best to answer the
questions as he understood the. (Khalil Decl., ¶ 11.) Defendant Khalil has not
been contacted at any time prior to 2022 to engage in an adjustment of the
rent. (Khalil Decl., ¶ 12.) The owners did not contact him in 2012 or in 2022
about a rental calculation. (Khalil Decl., ¶ 13.) 
 

Analysis
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs improperly attempt to
seek a judicial determination that there has been a breach of the lease. The
Court finds that Defendants’ contention is persuasive. Here, Plaintiffs seek a
judicial determination that: (1) the lease is valid and enforceable; and (2)
Defendants are in breach of the lease as a result of their failure to comply
with provisions of the lease establishing the rental value of the property.
(SAC, ¶ 21(a)-(b).) 
 
The lease provision at issue pertaining to establishing the
rental value states the following: 
 
“Thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the first
twenty (20) years of the term hereof, and thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of each successive 10-year period of the term of this lease and
thereafter, Lessee and Lessor shall attempt to agree on the value of the land
composing the leased premises (excluding any improvements made by Lessee) as of
the date of expiration of said 20-year period and as of the date of each
successive 10-year period thereafter, so that said value will conform to changed
economic and other conditions. In the event the parties hereto are unable to
reach an agreement concerning said value within the first fifteen (15) days of
said 30-day period, then the value of said leased premises shall be determined
by appraisal in accordance with the terms, covenants and conditions hereof. One
reputable appraiser shall forthwith be appointed by Lessor, one reputable
appraiser shall forthwith be appointed by Lessee, and the third reputable
appraiser shall be forthwith appointed by the two appraisers so selected. The
appraisal of the three appraisers shall be in writing and the average of the
three appraisals shall constitute for the purposes hereof the value of said
premises for the next succeeding 10 years of the term of this lease. The rental
[sic] payable for the first 10-year period of the term of this lease following
the expiration of the first 20 years of the term hereof shall be $1,600.00 per
month plus an additional amount per month equal to 1/12 of 6% of any appraised
value of the leased premises in excess of $320,000.00.” (Cunningham Decl., Ex.
1, Article V, section 2.) 
 
Further, as to notice, the lease provides that notices must
be delivered in person or by mail, return receipt requested. (Cunningham Decl.,
Ex. 1 at p. 7.) 
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 
 
The Court notes that the lease does require the parties to
attempt to agree on the value of the land for purposes of adjusting the rent
amount. The crux of the motion is that Defendant Khalil did not participate in
the process of agreeing on the value of the land and the subsequent necessary
appraisal process. 
 
However, based on the evidence presented by the parties, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have not presented any evidence as to any damages
they sustained from Defendant Khalil’s purported non-participation in the land
valuation process, or that they performed or were excused from performance. The
Court fails to see how Plaintiffs can seek a judicial determination that
Defendants breached the lease when Plaintiffs have not met their burden to
establish a breach of contract. The Court recognizes that the breach of
contract cause of action is not at issue in the instant motion; however, the
second cause of action for declaratory relief seeks a judicial determination,
in part, that Defendants breached the lease. It follows that there must be a
finding that the lease was breached before there can be a judicial
determination concerning a breach. 
 
Further, the Court finds that even if Plaintiffs had met
their burden to show that a breach of the lease occurred, there would be a
triable issue of fact on whether the land valuation process ever commenced
between Plaintiffs and Defendants, and therefore summary adjudication would be
inappropriate. 
 
Additionally, summary adjudication is inappropriate because
of Defendants’ waiver defense. “Acceptance of benefits under a lease is conduct
that supports a finding of waiver.” (Gould v. Corinthian Colleges, Inc. (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1179.) Here, in support of the opposition, Defendants
have presented evidence that Defendant Khalil has continued to pay rent.
(Khalil Decl., ¶ 5.) Thus, the Court finds that there is a triable issue of
fact concerning Defendants’ waiver defense articulated in their answer.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion for
summary adjudication. 
 
 