 Case Number:  23STCV09594    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants Rodeo Realty,
Inc. and Betty Galvan’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants
Rodeo Realty, Inc. (Rodeo) and Betty Galvan demur to the third through eighth causes of action alleged by plaintiff CoriAndre
Crane’s first amended complaint.
Summary
of Allegations
            Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
brings five causes of action against Rodeo and Galvan: the third cause of
action for fraudulent misrepresentation, the fourth for nondisclosure of
material facts, the sixth for unjust enrichment, the seventh for negligence,
and the eighth for unfair business practices.
The first amended complaint alleges that in January
2022, plaintiff agreed to purchase real property from defendants Abraham
Melchor Espinoza and Olivia Valentin.  (¶
12.)  The demurring defendants, Rodeo and
Galvan, were the sellers’ real estate agents. 
(¶ 13.)  The sellers’ real estate
transfer disclosure statement stated the sellers “were not aware of any significant
defects or malfunctions with the foundation, electrical system, plumbing system
or roof on the Property.”  (¶ 14.)  Plaintiff alleges Galvan and Rodeo “were
present while the Seller Defendants prepared these disclosures, ” they
“reviewed these disclosures before they were issued to Plaintiff,” and they
“graded these disclosures before they were issued to Plaintiff and approved
them to be sent.”  (¶ 13.) 
Plaintiff alleges, “In reality, there were major
defects and many of them were clearly visible per the inspection report on the
Property.  The entire foundation has
cracks and other issues that affect the structural integrity of the entire
Property.  There are electrical system
issues that prevent the use of multiple lights and outlets at the same time,
requiring significant repairs and upgrades of the Property.  There were plumbing issues that could result
in sewage backing up into drains in the bathrooms and kitchen.  The roof was in need of serious repair.  The HVAC system is deficient for the needs of
the Property.”  (¶ 15.)  She further alleges, “The January 28, 2022
inspection of the Property confirmed the above undisclosed defects.”  (¶ 17.) 
“Crane was never informed of these defects by the Seller Defendants, nor
the Sellers’ Agents, nor was she informed by her realtor, [Darrell] Burns, or
her broker, Savient … .  The defects were
also withheld by the Sellers’ Agents.” 
(¶ 18.)  
Plaintiff further alleges that her agent, Burns,
“email[ed] the January 28, 2022 inspection report to Crane without comment on
February 8, 2022.” (¶ 19.)  “Crane had no
idea of the importance of the inspection report emailed to her because Burns
failed to advise her.  Crane went ahead
and signed the final escrow papers at the direction of Burns.”  (¶ 21.) 
Finally, plaintiff alleges she “signed a ‘Contingency Removal’ on
February 10, 2022 pursuant to Burns’ instructions.  Burns failed to advise Crane as to the
importance of this document as well.  Burns
never advised or mentioned to Crane that signing this document meant that she
waived a pre-closing inspection.”  (¶
22.) 
3rd
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Misrepresentation 
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  Intentional
misrepresentation requires: “(a) misrepresentation; (b) defendant’s knowledge
of the statement’s falsity; (c) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce action in
reliance on the misrepresentation); (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.”  (Hunter v. Up-Right, Inc.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 1174, 1184.)  “[F]raud
must be pled specifically” by “pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotes omitted.)
            Plaintiff does not allege facts
showing Rodeo and Galvan made any misrepresentation to her.  The third cause of action itself does not
allege any conduct by Rodeo and Galvan as opposed to the other defendants.  (FAC, ¶¶ 40-42.)  The only affirmative misrepresentation
plaintiff alleges is the representation in the Real Estate Transfer Disclosure
Statement by the seller defendants, Espinoza and Valentin (¶¶ 13-14, Ex. A),
that “the Seller Defendants stated they were not aware of any significant
defects or malfunctions with the foundation, electrical system, plumbing system
or roof on the Property” (¶ 14).  
Rodeo and Glavan did not make those representations.  Only Espinoza and Valentin did.  The real estate transfer disclosure statement
expressly provides, “The following are representations made by the Seller and
are not the representations of the Agent(s), if any.”  (FAC, Ex. A, p. 5.)  The disclosure statement includes a separate
section labeled “III. Agent’s Inspection Disclosure,” which states “THE UNDERSIGNED,
BASED ON A REASONABLY COMPETENT AND DILIGENT VISUAL INSPECTION OF THE ACCESSIBLE
AREAS OF THE PROPERTY, STATES THE FOLLOWING: [unchecked box] See attached Agent
Visual Inspection Disclosure (AVID Form) [unchecked box] Agent notes no items
for disclosure.  [unchecked box] Agent
notes the following items: [blank space].”  (Id., p. 7.)  Under this incomplete section, Galvan signed
for Rodeo on the line for “Agent (Broker Representing Seller).”  (Ibid.)  Because Rodeo and Galvan did not check any of
the boxes, they made no affirmative representation whatsoever.  That they allegedly “reviewed,” “graded,” or
“approved” the sellers’ disclosures (FAC, ¶ 13) does not mean they personally
made the sellers’ representations.
            Plaintiff also does not allege
sufficient facts showing justifiable reliance. 
“[T]he reasonableness of the reliance is ordinarily
a question of fact. 
[Citations.]  However, whether a
party’s reliance was justified may be decided as a matter of law if reasonable
minds can come to only one conclusion based on the facts.”  (Guido v. Koopman (1991) 1
Cal.App.4th 837, 843.)  “ ‘[T]he right to
rely upon the representations, of course, does not exist where a purchaser
chooses to inspect the property before purchase, and, in making such
inspection, learns the true facts, for the obvious reason that he has not been
defrauded unless he has been misled, and he has not been misled where he has
acted with actual or imputed knowledge of the true facts.’ ”  (Blackman v. Howes (1947) 82
Cal.App.2d 275, 279-280.)
The
only reasonable conclusion is that plaintiff’s reliance was not justified.  As she alleges, “The January 28, 2022
inspection of the Property confirmed the above undisclosed defects.”  (FAC, ¶ 17.) 
She alleges she received the inspection report by email on February 8,
2022.  (Id., ¶ 19.)  And she alleges that—after receiving the
report—she “went ahead and signed the final escrow papers” (¶ 21) and “signed a
‘Contingency Removal’ on February 10” (¶ 22). 
She thus had received an email including an inspection that “confirmed”
the property’s “undisclosed defects.”  Relying
on false representations cannot be justified when the plaintiff had a copy of
the property inspection report showing the representations were false.  
Plaintiff’s
opposition argues she cannot be “imputed to know what was in the inspection
report” because “she never read” it. 
(Opp., p. 5.)  “[A]
buyer is not relieved of ‘the duty to exercise reasonable care to protect
himself or herself, including those facts … which are known to or within the
diligent attention and observation of the buyer’ (Civ. Code, § 2079.5); and a
buyer is held to be aware of obvious and patent conditions.”  (Furla v. Jon Douglas Co. (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 1069, 1079.)  Reading an inspection
report (or any other important document) is among the simplest and easiest
possible ways a buyer can protect herself. 
Not reading it constitutes failure to exercise reasonable care. 
Plaintiff
cites two cases for the proposition that defendants can be liable for violating
an “independent duty” of disclosure. 
(Opp., p. 2.)  Neither applies.  
First,
Moreno v. Sanchez (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 1415 is about statutes of
limitations.  It held that “causes of
action for breach of a home inspector’s duty of care should accrue in all
cases, not on the date of the inspection, but when the homeowner discovers, or
with the exercise of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the inspector’s
breach.”  (Id. at pp.
1428-1429.)  The statute of limitations
is not at issue here, and this is not an action against the home inspector for
breaching his duty of care.
Second,
Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th
1109 concerns equitable indemnity.  The
court held that “a realtor who is sued for negligent nondisclosure of defects
in real property” may “obtain equitable indemnity from a home inspection
company that allegedly breached its duty to the purchaser to discover and
disclose the same defects.”  (Id.
at pp. 1112-1113.)  Leko would only
apply to claims for indemnity from one defendant against another.  Regardless, the real estate agent did not
defend itself from the purchaser based on the purchaser’s purported knowledge
of defects revealed by an inspection. 
The realtor sued the inspector for not discovering the defects.
4th,
6th, 7th, and 8th Causes of Action
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for these causes of action.  These
claims all arise from defendants’ alleged failure to disclose the defects,
rather than affirmative misrepresentation.  (Both the demurrer and opposition address
these claims jointly.)  
Defendants’
alleged nondisclosure was not actionable under any of plaintiff’s legal theories
because plaintiff would have discovered the information withheld with
reasonable diligence.  “Actionable
nondisclosure relates to facts not discoverable by the plaintiffs.”  (Sweat v. Hollister (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 603, 608, disapproved on other grounds by Santisas v. Goodin
(1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 609, fn. 5.)  When
a seller or a seller’s agent “ ‘knows of facts materially affecting the value
or desirability of the property which are known or accessible only to him and
also knows that such facts are not known to, or within the reach of the
diligent attention and observation of the buyer, the seller is under a duty to
disclose them to the buyer.’ ”  (Holmes
v. Summer (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1518–1519.)  “[T]he information in question must be
unknown to, or outside ‘the diligent attention and observation of the buyer… .’
”  (Id. at p. 1520; accord Peake
v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 445 [“a seller’s agent has no
affirmative duty to disclose latent defects unless the agent ‘also knows
that such facts are not known to, or within the reach of the diligent attention
and observation of the buyer’”].)  
As
discussed above, plaintiff alleges she received a copy of an inspection report
that “confirmed” the property’s defects. 
That information was well within the reach of her diligent attention.  It was in her email inbox.  She failed to read it.  Rodeo and Galvan cannot be liable for not disclosing
information plaintiff would have learned by reading that report.
Motion
to Strike
            Defendants Rodeo Realty, Inc. (Rodeo) and Betty Galvan move
to strike several portions of plaintiff CoriAndre Crane’s first amended
complaint.  
A. Attorney Fees
Rodeo and Galvan move to strike plaintiff’s prayer for
attorney fees.  A plaintiff may only
recover attorney fees when authorized by contract, statute, or other law.  (CCP § 1033.5(a)(10).)  Plaintiff alleges no such basis for attorney
fees.  Her opposition makes no argument
in support of her prayer for attorney fees.
B. Punitive Damages
Rodeo
and Galvan move to strike portions of the first amended complaint related to
punitive damages.  Courts may strike such
allegations where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code
section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Conclusory allegations do not suffice.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts to state
any cause of action against Rodeo and Galvan. 
She therefore also does not allege sufficient facts to constitute
malice, oppression, or fraud under Civil Code section 3294.
Disposition
            Defendants Rodeo Realty, Inc. and Betty Galvan’s demurrer
to the third, fourth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action alleged by
plaintiff CoriAndre Crane is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.
            Defendants Rodeo Realty, Inc. and Betty Galvan’s motion
to strike portions of the first amended complaint is granted with 20
days’ leave to amend.  The court hereby strikes
the following portions of the first amended complaint against defendants Rodeo
Realty, Inc. and Betty Galvan: paragraphs 42, 51, 60, and 69; prayer, paragraph
3; and “reasonable attorneys’ fees” in prayer, paragraph 4.