 Case Number:  23STCV03266    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Stay All Proceedings
            Defendant BMW of North America, LLC moves to compel
arbitration of the complaint by plaintiff Fala Bar LLC and to stay this
action.  
Defendant is entitled to compel arbitration of this
action.  Plaintiff entered a lease
agreement with non-party dealership BMW of Vista.  The lease agreement
begins by identifying the parties: the “Lessor” is “BMW of Vista” and the
“Lessee” is “Fala Bar LLC.”  (Fetterolf
Decl. Ex. A, § 1.)  The agreement further
provides, “This Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement (‘Lease’) is entered into between
the lessee and co-lessee, (‘Lessee’) and the lessor (‘Lessor’) named
above.  Unless otherwise specified, ‘I,’
‘me’ and ‘my’ refer to the Lessee and ‘you’ and ‘your’ refer to the Lessor or
Lessor’s assignee.  …  ‘Assignee’ refers to BMW Financial Services
NA, LLC (‘BMW FS’) or, if this box is checked [X] to Financial Services Vehicle
Trust.  BMW FS will administer this Lease
on behalf of itself or any assignee.”  (Id.,
§ 2.)  
The
lease agreement’s arbitration clause provides, “Either you or I may choose to
have any despite between us decided by arbitration… .  [¶] ‘Claim’ broadly means any claim, dispute
or controversy … between me and you or your employees, officers, directors,
affiliates, successors or assigns, or between me and any third parties if I
assert a Claim against such third parties in connection with a Claim I assert
against you, which arises out of or relates to my credit application, lease… or
any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this Lease.) 
Any Claim shall, at your or my election, be resolved by neutral, binding
arbitration and not by a court action.” 
(Fetterolf Decl., Ex. A, § 38.) 
Defendant
BMW of North America, LLC may compel arbitration as a third-party beneficiary
of this agreement.  “[A] non-signatory
beneficiary of an arbitration clause is entitled to require arbitration.”  (Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 478.)  “A third party may
qualify as a contract beneficiary where the contracting parties must have
intended to benefit that individual, an intent which must appear in the terms
of the agreement.”  (Principal Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Vars, Pave, McCord & Freedman (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
1469, 1486.)  “The third party need not
be identified by name.  It is sufficient
if the claimant belongs to a class of persons for whose benefit it was made.”  (Ibid.)  
A
nonsignatory moving to compel arbitration as a third-party beneficiary is “obligated to prove that ‘express provisions of
the contract,’ considered in light of the ‘relevant circumstances,’ show that
(1) ‘the third party would in fact benefit from the contract;’ [and] (2) ‘a
motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the
third party.’ ”  (Ngo v. BMW of North
America, LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942, 946 (Ngo).)
The lease agreement defines “you” to include
the signatory dealership’s “assignee,” BMW Financial Services NA or Financial
Services Vehicle Trust.  (Fetterolf
Decl., Ex. A, § 2.)  The arbitration
clause provides for arbitration of disputes “between me and you or your
employees, officers, directors, affiliates, successors or assigns.”  (Id., § 38.)  By agreeing that “you” may elect arbitration,
plaintiff therefore agreed to arbitrate disputes between plaintiff and BMW
Financial Services NA or Financial Services Vehicle Trust and their
affiliates.  Defendant establishes that
it is an affiliate of both entities.  It provides
undisputed evidence that Financial Services Vehicle Trust is a “subsidiary” of
BMW Financial Services NA, LLC which is a “wholly-owned subsidiary of”
defendant BMW of North America, LLC.  (Grener
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Defendant also submits
evidence that BMW of North America, LLC is the sole managing member of BMW
Financial Services NA, LLC.  (Baker
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)
In Ngo, the Ninth Circuit Court of
Appeals distinguished a prior case, Hajibekyan v. BMW of North America, LLC
(9th Cir. 2021) 839 F. App’x 187, because there the “arbitration clause defined
arbitrable disputes as those between ‘me and you or your employees, officers,
directors, affiliates, successors, or assigns,’ and defined ‘you’ and ‘your’
to include the assignee of the contract.” 
(Ngo, supra, 23 F.4th at p. 947.) 
Ngo noted that in Hajibekyan, “BMW was an affiliate of the
assignee,” but in the present case, “arbitrable disputes do not include those
involving BMW Bank of North America's assignees and affiliates, only those
involving the dealership's assignees.” 
(Ibid.)  The arbitration
clause in Ngo made no reference to “affiliates” (id. at p. 945),
unlike this agreement between plaintiff and BMW of Vista.  Defendant thus shows it would in fact benefit
from the contract and that a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was
to provide a benefit to the BMW Financial Services NA, LLC and its affiliates,
including defendant.
Disposition
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s motion
to compel arbitration is granted. 
Plaintiff Fala Bar LLC is ordered to arbitrate this action with
defendant.  The court hereby stays
the entire action pending the resolution of the arbitration proceeding.