 Case Number:  22STCV10743    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 10/23/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV10743 KARINA BAUTISTA,
et al. vs RALPH'S FOOD 4 LESS 
Moving Party: Both Parties
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS DENIED
 
On March 29, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present slip-and-fall case. Trial is currently set for
November 21, 2024. The parties stipulate to a trial continuance and move the
court to continue the trial date based on the following reasons: the parties
have scheduled a mediation with Mitch Green, Esq. for January 23, 2025;
Plaintiff still needs to depose Defendant’s employee, Ryan Gomez; and, though
not entirely clear from the Motion, it appears that Defendant still seeks to perform
an Independent Medical Examination (IME) on Plaintiff.
This case was filed on
March 29, 2022, Discovery should have been completed by now in this
straightforward slip-and-fall case. The Court acknowledges the outstanding
discovery matters cited by the parties, but, except for the delayed deposition
of Mr. Gomez, no reason is provided why other discovery has not been completed
or cannot be completed prior to trial. 
With regard to mediation, the parties have known about the current trial
date since they last requested a continuance. 
The parties should have scheduled mediation consistent with that trial
date.  
The Court is supposed
to ensure that civil cases conclude in 2 years (see CRC 2.2). This case
appears to be an uncomplicated slip and fall case that has been at issue for more
than 2 years; minimal fact discovery remains to be completed and expert
discovery can be completed in the time remaining.  The Court will re-open fact discovery for the
deposition of Mr. Gomez and for Defendant to conduct an IME.  The Court will not, however, continue the
trial date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.