  Case Number:  20STCV00320    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for  Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict   Moving Party: Defendant  City of Los Angeles  Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia   SUBJECT:        Motion for a  New Trial on the Issue of Damages or, in the Alternative, Remittitur   Moving Party: Defendant  City of Los Angeles Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia                                      SUBJECT:        Motion to Tax  Costs   Moving Party: Defendant  City of Los Angeles Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia     The Motion for  Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict is DENIED.    The Motion for  New Trial is GRANTED.            It is  CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be  held, unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction in damages to a  total amount of $250,000.00.           It is  CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be  held, unless Plaintiff Alfred Garcia consents to a reduction in damages to a  total amount of $125,000.00.           Plaintiffs  shall each have thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of this Order  during which they may individually consent to their respective reduction of  damages set forth above. Failure to respond shall be deemed a rejection of the  reduction of damages, and a new trial limited to the issue of the rejecting  plaintiff’s damages shall be automatically granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5,  subd. (b).) If a plaintiff chooses to accept the reduction of damages, that  plaintiff shall concurrently serve and submit to the Court a proposed amended  judgment reflecting the modified judgment amount. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5,  subd. (c).)   The Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED  in part. Costs are TAXED by $4,870.00. Costs are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiffs  and against Defendant in the total amount of $94,595.66.   The Court schedules a Status Conference  for January 18, 2024 at 8:30 am to discuss the future status of this case,  including remitter, new trial or appeals.  The parties are to file a Joint Status  Conference Report five court days prior to the status conference hearing.      PRELIMINARY  COMMENTS:   On November 16, 2023, the Court  initially heard these three motions. The Court’s tentative order on these three  motions had been posted in advance of the hearing. At the hearing, the Court  adopted its tentative ruling as to the Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the  Verdict and the Motion to Tax Costs. The tentative ruling on these two motions is  repeated below. After a preliminary discussion of the Motion for New Trial, the  Court gave both Parties leave to file and serve simultaneous briefs on the  issue of a remittitur for Plaintiff Glick’s economic damages by November 27,  2023. The Court’s new tentative ruling as to the Motion for New Trial is  provided below.     BACKGROUND:   On January 3, 2020,  Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia filed their Complaint against  Defendant City of Los Angeles on causes of action for discrimination and  retaliation, both in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”).     From July 5 to 12,  2023, the Court held a jury trial in this matter. The Jury found in favor of  both Plaintiffs and against Defendant on both causes of action. For Plaintiff  Stephen Glick, the Jury found $8,621,358.00 in damages, which consisted of  $5,000,000.00 in past non-economic damages, $3,000,000.00 in future  non-economic damages, and $621,358.00 in future economic damages. For Plaintiff  Alfred Garcia, the Jury found $4,500,000.00 in damages, which consisted of  $3,000,000.00 in past non-economic damages and $1,500,000.00 in future  non-economic damages.    On September 20,  2023, the Court entered judgment in this matter.    On October 5, 2023,  Defendant filed: (1) Notice of Intent to Move for Judgment Notwithstanding the  Verdict; and (2) Notice of Intention to Move for New Trial.    On October 5, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed their Judicial Council Form MC-010, Memorandum of Costs  (Summary).    On October 13, 2023,  Defendant filed: (1) Memorandum of Points and Authorities for Judgment  Notwithstanding the Verdict (“Motion for JNOV”); and (2) Memorandum of Points  and Authorities Supporting the Motion for a New Trial on the Issue of Damages  (“Motion for New Trial”). In support of each of the motions, Defendant  concurrently filed a supporting declaration. In addition, Defendant concurrently  filed a proposed order for the Motion for New Trial.   On October 19, 2023,  Defendant filed its Motion to Tax Costs. In support of this motion, Defendant  filed a declaration.    On October 25, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed their Oppositions to the Motion for JNOV and the Motion for  New Trial. In support of these oppositions, Plaintiffs concurrently filed  declarations.    On October 27, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to the Motion to Tax Costs.    On November 1, 2023,  Defendant filed its Replies regarding the Motion for JNOV and Motion for New  Trial.    On November 27, 2023,  Defendant filed its Supplemental Brief (“Defendant’s Supplemental Brief”).  Defendant concurrently filed Declaration of Sara Ugaz.    On November 27, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed their Brief Regarding the Economic Damages Award, Defendant’s  Failure to Move for New Trial Thereon, and the Court’s Sua Sponte Tentative  Decision Regarding the Award (“Plaintiffs’ Supplemental Brief”).     No reply or other  response has been filed regarding the Motion to Tax Costs.      ANALYSIS:   I.           Motion  for JNOV   A.       Legal  Standard   “The court,  before the expiration of its power to rule on a motion for a new trial, either  of its own motion, after five days’ notice, or on motion of a party against  whom a verdict has been rendered, shall render judgment in favor of the  aggrieved party notwithstanding the verdict whenever a motion for a directed  verdict for the aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion  been made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 629, subd. (a).)   “The trial judge’s power to grant a judgment  notwithstanding the verdict is identical to his power to grant a directed  verdict. The trial judge cannot weigh the evidence, or judge the credibility of  witnesses. If the evidence is conflicting or if several reasonable  inferences may be drawn, the motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict  should be denied.” (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 110, citations  omitted, scrivener’s error corrected.)   “A motion for  judgment notwithstanding the verdict of a jury may properly be granted only if  it appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the party  securing the verdict, that there is no substantial evidence to support the  verdict. If there is any substantial evidence, or reasonable inferences to be  drawn therefrom, in support of the verdict, the motion should be denied.” (Brandenburg v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (1946)  28 Cal.2d 282, 284, citations omitted.)   B.       Discussion   1.       The  Parties’ Arguments   Defendant moves the Court to enter  judgment for Defendant, notwithstanding the verdict of the Jury. (Motion for  JNOV, p. 6:2–5.)    Defendant argues: (1) that the  evidence does not support the Jury’s verdict; (2) that no substantial evidence  supports Plaintiffs’ claims of gender discrimination and retaliation; (3) that  Plaintiffs’ seniority, violations of police policy, and complaint history  justified the investigation of and resulting discipline given to Plaintiffs;  (4) that the only evidence of gender discrimination was the hearsay statement  of the President of the Police Protective League; and (5) that there was no  evidence presented that any of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD)  officers who investigated and disciplined Plaintiffs were aware Plaintiffs had  made a complaint of gender discrimination. (Motion for JNOV, pp. 2:18–19,  3:12–13, 3:22–23, 4:23–24, 5:3–5.)   Plaintiffs disagree, arguing: (1)  that Defendant is using the wrong standard; (2) that there is direct evidence  of gender discrimination, which requires denial of the Motion for JNOV; and (3)  that even without direct evidence of gender discrimination, the Jury heard  ample other evidence of discrimination and retaliation. (Opposition to Motion  for JNOV, pp. 2:5, 3:2–3, 4:17–18.)   Defendant reiterates its arguments  in its Reply.    2.       Discrimination   a.        Legal  Standard   “It is an unlawful  employment practice, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification .  . . [f]or an employer, because of the race, religious creed, color, national  origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, reproductive health decisionmaking,  medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender  identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military  status of any person, to refuse to hire or employ the person or to refuse to  select the person for a training program leading to employment, or to bar or to  discharge the person from employment or from a training program leading to  employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or in terms,  conditions, or privileges of employment.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)   b.        Discussion    The incident that gave rise to this  case involves a battery that appears to have occurred on January 26, 2017.  Specifically, a man suspected of driving under the influence (“DUI”) was: (1)  arrested by Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) officers; (2) transported by  LAPD officers to an LAPD station; (3) held by LAPD for a number of hours at  that station; (4) transported by Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) paramedics  to a hospital; and (5) treated at a hospital. During the transportation of the  suspect to the hospital, the paramedics in the ambulance noticed: (1) that the  suspect’s eyebrows had been shaved; (2) that the suspect’s eyebrows had been  drawn in with marker; (3) that the suspect’s mustache had been shaved; (4) that  the suspect had a drawing on their abdomen; and (5) that the suspect had  offensive writing on their abdomen.    This discrimination case arose in  the aftermath of the battery on the suspect.    The Jury was asked to determine whether  the LAPD discriminated on the basis of gender against Plaintiffs Stephen Glick  and Alfred Garcia in the ensuing investigation and disciplinary measures taken  as a result of the battery on the suspect. The Jury found in favor of  Plaintiffs and against Defendant City of Los Angeles.    The following is a brief summary of  some of the copious declaratory and documentary evidence submitted to the Jury,  viewed in the light most favorable to the prevailing Plaintiffs:   (1)        When the  LAPD investigated this matter, it determined that: (1) the suspect — who at one  point was found lying in his own vomit at the station — was not given timely  care; and (2) that a battery was committed against the suspect. The LAPD  initially subpoenaed phone records of various officers. These officers included  Officers Alfred Garcia and Camille Spitaleri (the officers who initially  responded to the DUI incident) and Officers Stephen Glick and Amanda Orefice  (the officers who arrived as backup to the DUI incident). Officers Glick and  Orefice had transported the suspect to the station and waited at the station  with the suspect until Officers Garcia and Spitaleri also arrived at the  station. Less than half an hour later, Officers Glick and Orefice left the  station while Officers Garcia and Spitaleri stayed at the station until,  several hours later, the suspect was transported to a local hospital by  paramedics. At different points during the time the suspect was at the station,  each of the four officers had at least one moment alone with the suspect.    (2)        As the LAPD  continued its investigation into the battery, the LAPD investigated Officers  Glick and Garcia (who are both male) differently from how it investigated  Officers Orefice and Spitaleri (who are both female). On April 20, 2017, the  LAPD served search warrants on Officers Glick and Garcia. The LAPD searched:  (1) these officers’ phones; (2) these officers’ lockers; (3) these officers’  work vehicles; and (4) these officers’ personal vehicles. The LAPD did not  initially issue search warrants on Officers Orefice and Spitaleri. On May 26,  2017, the LAPD served searched warrants on Officers Orefice and Spitaleri. This  third round of warrants only searched their phones – not their lockers or their  vehicles.    (3)        In  addition, the LAPD engaged in different enforcement actions against Officers  Glick and Garcia than against Officers Orefice and Spitaleri. When search  warrants were issued for Officers Glick and Garcia, the LAPD “benched” them – i.e.,  Officers Glick and Garcia were assigned to desk duty and could not work in the  field. Officers Orefice and Spitaleri were never benched in connection with  this matter. Some months later, Officers Glick and Garcia were each served with  a “Board of Rights” notice. This meant they were to face a hearing about their  termination as police officers with the LAPD. In addition, while they were each  scheduled for a Board of Rights hearing, Officers Glick and Garcia were required  to stay home, check in twice during their normal shifts, and receive approval  from the LAPD before leaving their homes. Although Officers Glick and Garcia  had more seniority than their respective partners, Detective McBride testified  that seniority would not be a reason to conduct these investigations differently.     (4)        The  different investigations and enforcement actions had measurable impacts. For  example, Officer Spitaleri was subsequently promoted. However, Officer Glick  became unable to transfer to the Metro Division, even though he received notice  prior to April 20, 2017 that his transfer request to Metro Division would be  approved.   An assignment at the Metro Division  was seen as a promotion to a more elite unit, even though it was technically a  transfer.  Officers Glick and Garcia have  not been promoted since April 20, 2017.    (5)        Ultimately,  the Board of Rights hearings were rescinded, but the underlying charge for the  Board of Rights hearings (battery) remained on each of their records as  “Unresolved.” This means that the charge was neither proved nor disproved. However,  unlike a result of “Unfounded” or “Exonerated,” a result of “Unfounded” can  have a significant impact on an officer’s ability to promote. Officers Orefice  and Spitaleri were never scheduled for Board of Rights hearings, nor has the  underlying charge of battery for the incident on January 26, 2017 ever appeared  on their records.    (6)        At  multiple points during the investigation and enforcement process, decisions  were made to treat Officers Glick and Garcia differently from Officers Orefice  and Spitaleri. Regarding the search warrants, Detective Supervisor Kathleen Roditis,  who worked for Internal Affairs on this matter, noted the differences in who  was to be searched and the reasoning for those searches. Lieutenant Todd Turner  testified that the choice for only the male officers receiving search warrants  came directly from Chief of Police Charlie Beck. After the search warrants had  been issued, Deputy Chief Michael Rimkunas (who was at that point the captain  of the relevant LAPD station) had not seen any evidence that Officers Glick and  Garcia were more likely to have engaged in the battery than any of the other  officers investigated. Deputy Chief Rimkunas had recommended that the battery  charge be initially classified as “Unresolved.” But, according to Deputy Chief  Rimkunas, this recommendation was reviewed by Chief of Police Charlie Beck, who  overruled the recommendation and had the Board of Rights hearings scheduled for  Officers Glick and Garcia. Detective Jamie McBride, a representative of the  LAPD police officers, had conversations with Chief of Staff Sean Malinowski  about the investigation into this matter. When Detective McBride asked why only  the male officers were being relieved of duty, Chief of Staff Sean Malinowski  twice told Detective McBride that “this is something guys would do, not  females.” Testimony at trial indicated that the chief of staff position is an  important position that can direct items and information to the chief of  police.    “[V]iewed in the  light most favorable” to Plaintiffs (see Brandenburg, supra, 28  Cal.2d at p. 284), there was substantial evidence supporting the Jury’s finding  that Officers Glick and Garcia had been discriminated against in their terms,  conditions, and privileges of employment on the basis of the officers’ gender.    Defendant argues that other reasons  beside gender explain the discrimination — for example, Plaintiffs’ seniority,  or their complaint history, or other violations of police policy (such as  Officer Garcia taking a picture of the suspect with his cell phone). Further,  it is noteworthy that, when asked point blank about whether gender bias played  any role here, Detective Roditis testified that gender bias did not play a role  in the investigation, and Deputy Chief Michael Rimkunas testified that gender  bias did not play a role in the adjudication of the investigation.            But on a motion  for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the Court “cannot weigh the evidence,  or judge the credibility of witnesses.” (Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 110.) Because there is  substantial evidence and reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom in support  of the Jury’s verdict — that unlawful gender discrimination occurred here — the  Motion for JNOV must be denied. (Brandenburg, supra, 28 Cal.2d at p. 284.)           The Court DENIES the Motion for JNOV to  the first cause of action for discrimination.    3.       Retaliation   a.        Legal  Standard   “It is an unlawful employment practice, unless based  upon a bona fide occupational qualification . . . For any employer,  labor organization, employment agency, or person to discharge, expel, or  otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has opposed any  practices forbidden under this part or because the person has filed a  complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under this part.” (Gov.  Code, § 12940, subd. (h).)   “Past California cases hold that in order to establish a  prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or  she engaged in a protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to  an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the  protected activity and the employer's action. Once an employee establishes a prima facie case, the  employer is required to offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the  adverse employment action. If the employer  produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action, the presumption  of retaliation drops out of the picture, and the burden shifts back to the  employee to prove intentional retaliation.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)  36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042, citations and internal quotations marks omitted.)   b.        Discussion     The Jury was asked to determine  whether the LAPD retaliated against Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia.  The Jury found in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant City of Los  Angeles.            The Court  considers whether there was substantial evidence as to each element of a cause  of action for retaliation under FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h)).            First, both  Plaintiffs repeatedly raised the issue of gender discrimination to their  superiors. Officer Glick testified that he brought up his concerns of  differential treatment in the investigation with Detective De La Cova (who was  investigating the matter for Internal Affairs), Captain Waters (who was a  captain at the relevant station), and Lieutenant Turner (who was a lieutenant  at the relevant station). Lieutenant Todd Turner testified how Officer Glick  came into Lieutenant Turner’s office and reported that there was potential  discrimination in the investigation of this matter. Similarly, Officer Garcia  testified that he would speak with then-Captain Rimkunas about once or twice a  month, during which Officer Garcia would always bring up why the female  officers were being treated differently from the male officers. Thus, there is  substantial evidence that Plaintiffs engaged in the protected activity of  raising concerns of gender discrimination.            Second, both  Plaintiffs suffered adverse employment actions: (1) being subjected to a search  warrant; (2) being benched; (3) being sent home while the Board of Rights  hearing was pending; and (4) ultimately receiving an “Unresolved” on the  battery charge. There is substantial evidence that each of these adverse  employment actions occurred.            Finally,  substantial evidence existed to support a finding that a causal link existed between the protected activity and the  employer's action. For example, Plaintiffs repeatedly brought up to their  supervisors that they were being treated differently in the investigation based  on their gender. After complaining about gender discrimination, Plaintiffs  suffered additional adverse employment actions (including being served with a  Board of Rights hearing notice); these enforcement actions were never taken  against female officers Orefice and Spitaleri, despite their presence and  participation in the January 26, 2017 incident.           Defendant  argues that there is no causal link between Plaintiffs engaging in the  protected activity of raising concerns of gender discrimination and the  subsequent adverse employment actions because the individuals in charge of  investigation and discipline were not aware of these complaints. However, there  is substantial evidence from which a jury could conclude there was such a  causal link. Officer Garcia testified that he complained to then-Captain  Rimkunas (who worked on the investigation and discipline related to the  investigation) about the differential treatment. Detective McBride testified  that he made Chief of Staff Malinowski aware of the treatment based on gender,  to which Chief of Staff Malinowski acknowledged the different treatment based  on gender. All of this was substantial evidence that supported the Jury’s  finding.            Again, on a  motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the Court “cannot weigh the  evidence, or judge the credibility of witnesses.” (Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 110.) Because there is  substantial evidence and reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom in support  of the Jury’s verdict — that unlawful retaliation occurred here — the Motion  for JNOV must be denied. (Brandenburg, supra, 28 Cal.2d at p. 284.)           The Court DENIES the Motion for JNOV to  the second cause of action for retaliation.    C.       Conclusion   The Motion for  Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict is DENIED.      II.        Motion  for New Trial   A.       Legal  Standard   “A new trial is a re-examination of  an issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court,  or referee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 656.)   “The verdict may be vacated and any other  decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further  trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the party  aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the  substantial rights of such party:    [¶]    “5. Excessive or inadequate damages.   “6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify  the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law.   [¶]   “When a new trial is granted, on all or part  of the issues, the court shall specify the ground or grounds upon which it is  granted and the court’s reason or reasons for granting the new trial upon each  ground stated.   “A new trial shall not be granted upon the  ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other  decision, nor upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless after  weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including  reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have reached  a different verdict or decision.   “The order passing upon and determining the  motion must be made and entered as provided in Section 660 and if the motion is  granted must state the ground or grounds relied upon by the court, and may  contain the specification of reasons. If an order granting such motion does not  contain such specification of reasons, the court must, within 10 days after  filing such order, prepare, sign and file such specification of reasons in  writing with the clerk. The court shall not direct the attorney for a party to  prepare either or both said order and said specification of reasons. . . .”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)   “In any civil action where after trial by  jury an order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be  proper, the trial court may in its discretion:   “(1) If the ground for granting a new trial is  inadequate damages, issue a conditional order granting the new trial unless the  party against whom the verdict has been rendered consents to the addition of  damages in an amount the court in its independent judgment determines from the  evidence to be fair and reasonable.   “(2) If the ground for granting a new trial is  excessive damages, issue a conditional order granting the new trial unless the  party in whose favor the verdict has been rendered consents to the reduction of  so much thereof as the court in its independent judgment determines from the  evidence to be fair and reasonable.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (a).)   B.       Discussion   1.       The  Parties’ Arguments   a.        The  Parties’ Initial Arguments   Defendant moves the Court to order  a new trial on the issue of noneconomic damages, or alternatively,  conditionally order a new trial unless Plaintiffs consent to a reduction of  noneconomic damages. (Motion for New Trial, p. 18:26–28.)           Defendant argued:  (1) that the noneconomic damage awards are excessive, as they are grossly  disproportionate to the evidence of emotional harm; and (2) improper  considerations influenced the Jury to award excessive noneconomic damages.  (Motion for New Trial, pp. 10:17–18, 18:4–5.)           Plaintiffs  disagreed, arguing: (1) that the entire record and reasonable inferences from  the evidence support the Jury’s awards of noneconomic damages; (2) that both  Plaintiffs provided evidence as to their noneconomic damages; (3) that  Defendant’s arguments do not justify vacating the Jury’s verdict; and (4) that  there was no misconduct, and Defendant forfeited this argument because Defense  Counsel did not object and request an admonition to cure the purported  misconduct. (Opposition to Motion for New Trial, pp. 1:11–12, 2:24–25, 6:23,  8:6, 11:22–23.)           In its Reply,  Defendant argued: (1) that neither the evidence nor the law cited by Plaintiffs  justifies the noneconomic damages awards; (2) that Plaintiffs fabricate and  recast the trial testimony in an attempt to justify the excessive noneconomic  awards; (3) that the cases cited by Plaintiffs involve outrageously harmful  conduct that resulted in far more severe emotional distress than what  Plaintiffs experienced; and (4) that Plaintiffs’ Counsel improperly inflamed  the Jury during closing argument and the failure to object to that misconduct  does not result in a waiver. (Reply regarding Motion for New Trial, pp. 1:8–11,  6:10–11, 9:4–5.)   b.        The  Parties’ Supplemental Arguments   In Defendant’s Supplemental Brief,  Defendant argues: (1) that after providing the Parties with notice and an  opportunity to be heard on the issue of Plaintiff Glick’s economic damages, the  Court can and should reduce Plaintiff’s Glick’s economic damages award to zero;  (2) that the Court has the authority to do so because excessive damages was a  ground listed in the notice of intention to move for new trial; and (3) that  the Court correctly opined that the evidence is insufficient to support the  economic damages award because the evidence was based on speculative lost  future earnings. (Defendant’s Supplemental Brief, pp. 4:18–23, 5:24–26.)   In Plaintiffs’ Supplemental Brief,  Plaintiffs argue: (1) that any order granting a new trial as to Plaintiff  Stephen Glick’s economic damages is procedurally defective and cannot issue as  a matter of law; and (2) that if a motion for new trial had been brought on the  grounds of excessive economic damages, it would have to be denied. (Plaintiffs’  Supplemental Brief, pp. 2:11–12, 7:5–6.)   2.       Plaintiff  Stephen Glick’s Damages   a.        Plaintiff  Stephen Glick’s Noneconomic Damages   The Jury awarded Plaintiff Stephen  Glick $5,000,000.00 in past noneconomic damages and $3,000,000.00 in future  noneconomic damages.            However, scant  evidence was submitted regarding Plaintiff Stephen Glick’s noneconomic damages.     As to past noneconomic damages,  Plaintiff Stephen Glick testified: (1) that he was upset during the  investigation into the battery and the enforcement actions taken against him,  including being upset and crying when he was notified of the Board of Rights  hearing against him; (2) that these stresses were ongoing, to the point where  he had a hard time rolling out of bed; (3) that he was stressed out at this  time because he had just become a first-time father and did not know how he was  going to financially support his family; (4) that he was upset because he was  concerned that he would not be able to transfer into the Metro Division and  continue his upward career trajectory with the LAPD; and (5) that the events  stemming from the investigation and enforcement actions contributed to a  recurrence of his drinking alcohol, which at one point (several years later)  led to him calling an LAPD helpline.    As to future noneconomic damages, Plaintiff  Stephen Glick provided even less testimony. Among other things, he testified:  (1) that he has an ongoing problem with alcoholism, which was made worse by  what has occurred; (2) that he does not trust the LAPD the way he used to; (3)  that he does not enjoy his job the way he used to; and (4) that he feels that  this tore his family apart.            Plaintiffs only  sought and argued for garden-variety emotional distress. In fact, on numerous  occasions both before and during trial, Plaintiffs’ Counsel reiterated that  they were only seeking garden-variety emotional distress.           For instance,  on December 2, 2022, Defendant filed its Ex Parte Application for an Order  Compelling the Mental Examination of Plaintiffs or in the Alternative an Order  to Shorten Time for Notice of Hearing Re Same (“Ex Parte Application for Mental  Examination”). On December 5, 2022, Plaintiffs opposed this request.  Plaintiffs’ Counsel was emphatic: “Plaintiff’s [sic] counsel has time and again  explained that Plaintiff is now only claiming garden variety emotional distress  and stipulated to such along with the fact that Plaintiff would not be using an  expert for emotional distress damages pursuant to CCP § 2032.320(c)(1)(2).”  (Opposition to Ex Parte Application for Mental Examination, p. 5:15–18.)  According to Plaintiffs’ Counsel, Plaintiffs were “clearly not claiming any out  of the ordinary emotional distress damages in this case that is above and  beyond that usually associated with [Defendant’s] conduct.” (Id. at p.  6:5–7.) On December 6, 2022, based in part on Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s repeated  and emphatic assertions that Plaintiffs were only seeking damages for  garden-variety emotional distress, the Court denied Defendant’s Ex Parte  Application for Mental Examination.            The only  evidence introduced at trial in support of Plaintiffs’ noneconomic damages was  evidence for garden-variety emotional harms.            Despite ending  three days earlier than anticipated, Plaintiffs did not present any  psychologists, psychiatrists, or treating physicians to testify about Officer  Glick’s emotional distress. No lay witnesses (other than Plaintiffs themselves)  testified regarding Plaintiffs’ emotional suffering. Plaintiff Glick did  present testimony from Marianne Inouye (a forensic economist) and Defendant  presented testimony from Nicholas Buzas (a forensic accountant). However, the testimony  of these witnesses only went to economic damages, not the noneconomic damages.           After weighing  the evidence submitted at trial, the Court is convinced from the entire record,  including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the Jury clearly should have  reached a different verdict. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) Specifically, it appears  that a new trial on the issue of past and future noneconomic damages is  warranted due to an award of excessive damages, based on insufficiency of the  evidence. (Ibid.) Simply put, the evidence submitted at trial in support  of these noneconomic damages was insufficient for such an award.             The Jury  awarded Officer Glick $8,000,000.00 for his “garden-variety” emotional distress  and awarded Officer Garcia $4,500,000.00 for “garden-variety” emotional  distress. While the Court is not making a hard-and-fast rule as to the maximum  amount that can be awarded for garden-variety emotional distress, it is  certainly not $4,500,000.00 (let alone $8,000,000.00) based on the scant  evidence provided at trial. A mid- to high-seven figure award for emotional  distress is far “above and beyond that usually associated” with the  discrimination and retaliation which the Jury found that Plaintiffs suffered. (See  Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Ex Parte Application for Mental Examination, p.  6:5-7.)           Considering  that an order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages is proper,  the Court exercises its discretion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 662.5,  subdivision (a)(2) and issues a conditional order granting a new trial unless  Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction in damages. In the Court’s  independent judgment based on the evidence submitted at trial, the Court  determines that a fair and reasonable amount of damages for Plaintiff Stephen  Glick would be $250,000.00. This figure is comprised of $200,000.00 in past  noneconomic harms and $50,000.00 in future noneconomic harms.            The Court  admits that the calculation of this reduction is difficult, and is, by its  nature, imprecise. The reason for this is twofold: (1) without the aid of an  expert, it can be difficult to ascertain what is the appropriate range of  damages; and (2) when a stipulation has been made pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 2032.320(c) “that no claim is being made for mental and  emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical  injuries claimed”, the damages claimed rarely exceed a low five-figure range.  In the Court’s experience, only the most extraordinary claims for  garden-variety emotional distress can reach a very low six-figure range. Adding  to the difficulty, the Court is unaware of any opinion by the Court of Appeal  that has either interpreted Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320,  subdivision (c) or determined what is the maximum amount (if any exists) for garden-variety  emotional distress.    The Supreme Court has recognized  that “there is no fixed or absolute standard by which to compute the monetary  value of emotional distress.” (Pool v. City of Oakland (1986) 42 Cal.3d  1051, 1067, fn. 17, quoting Merlo v. Standard Life & Acc. Ins. Co. (1976)  59 Cal.App.3d 5, 17.) However, the Supreme Court has also recognized that  “[w]hen the award as a matter of law appears excessive, or where the recovery  is so grossly disproportionate as to raise a presumption that it is result of  passion or prejudice, the duty is then imposed upon the reviewing court to  act.” (Cunningham v. Simpson (1969) 1 Cal.3d 301, 308–309, quoting Rosenberg  v. J. C. Penney Co. (1939) 30 Cal.App.2d 609, 628.)   Given the circumstances of this
case, the Court would consider an award to Plaintiff Glick of $250,000.00 in
noneconomic damages to be too high.  However, had the Jury awarded garden-variety
emotional distress damages for Plaintiff Stephen Glick in the amount of
$250,000.00, the Court would not have issued a remittitur.  Therefore, the Court issues a conditional
order granting a new trial unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a
reduction in emotional distress damages to $250,000.00.          The Court does  not reach the issues surrounding whether improper considerations affected the  Jury.    b.        Plaintiff Stephen Glick’s Economic Damages   The Jury awarded Plaintiff Stephen  Glick $621,358.00 in future economic damages.            The Court  considers two issues: (1) whether it has the authority to order a remittitur on  these damages; and (2) if it has such authority, whether a remittitur would be  appropriate.    i.             The  Authority to Order a Remittitur   There are two, independent statutory  bases for the Court to grant a remittitur: (1) a motion for new trial, pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 657; and (2) the Court’s discretion,  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 662.5.   To understand why there are two,  independent authorities, we must consider the differences between these  statutes.   “The verdict may be vacated and any  other decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or  further trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of  the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes . . . .” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 657, italics added.)   “In any civil action where after trial by jury an  order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be proper, the  trial court may in its discretion . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd.  (a), italics added.)   These two different statutes provide  similar but distinct avenues of relief. The former explicitly requires “the  application of the party aggrieved”; the latter allows for the relief in the  trial court’s “discretion.”    This is similar to the distinction  between a motion for new trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 657 and a  motion to set aside and vacate judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  663. (See Cent. Valley Gen. Hosp. v. Smith (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 501.) Both  Code of Civil Procedure sections 657 and 663 contain language require motions; Code  of Civil Procedure section 662.5 does not. Further, some of the procedural  requirements between section 657 and section 663 motions are different.   “A motion for new trial is a  creature of statute; accordingly, if the trial court grants such relief without  conforming to the statutory procedures, the order will be void as in excess of  jurisdiction.” (Neal v. Montgomery Elevator Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th  1194, 1198, citation omitted.)   “[Code of Civil Procedure s]ections 656 through 662  set forth when and how a party may move for a “re-examination of an issue of  fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or  referee.” (§ 656.) Sections 659, 659a, and 660 set forth the  procedures and deadlines associated with litigating a new trial motion. A party  must file a notice of its intent to move for a new trial [within certain  timelines]. (§ 659.) Once jurisdiction is established by motion, the  trial court has to rule on the motion [within certain timelines]. (§ 660.)   “Section 657 sets forth  the possible grounds on which a trial court may grant a new trial motion. Section 658 provides that although such a motion generally  may rely solely on the minutes of the court, a motion that relies on newly  discovered evidence, juror misconduct, accident or surprise, or an irregularity  in the proceedings ‘must be made upon affidavits.’ Section 659a establishes  deadlines for submission of the required affidavits.”   (Kabran  v. Sharp Mem’l Hosp. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 330, 335–336.)           The Court of  Appeal has clarified that, just like Code of Civil Procedure section 663, CCP section  662.5 is not entirely divorced from Code of Civil Procedure section 657. (Thompson  v. Friendly Hills Reg’l Med. Ctr. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 544, 549 [“(O)rders  granting new trials on the ground of excessive damages must be accompanied by a  written specification of reasons prepared and filed by the trial judge.”].)  This makes sense: while certain paragraphs in section 657 relate to new trials  granted by motion, other paragraphs in section 657 more generally discuss  requirements for grants of new trials without any discussion of motions.    Thus, the Legislature appears to  have given trial courts the discretion to sua sponte grant new trials  limited to the issue of damages when doing so would be proper in civil actions  after trial by jury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5.)   The Court is aware that many prior  opinions are to the contrary. (See, e.g., Schroeder v. Auto Driveaway Co. (1974)  11 Cal.3d 908, 919 [the issue of excess or inadequate damages “must be raised  by a motion for new trial, and absent exceptional circumstances the trial court  cannot grant a new trial on its own motion”]; Sanchez-Corea v. Bank of Am. (1985)  38 Cal.3d 892, 899 [“The power of the trial court to grant a new trial may be  exercised only by following the statutory procedure and is conditioned upon the  timely filing of a motion for new trial, the court being without power to order  a new trial sua sponte.”]; Kabran, supra, 2 Cal.5th 330,  336, quoting Ehrler v. Ehrler (1981) 126 Cal.App.3d 147, 151 [“Thus, a  ‘trial court does not have the jurisdiction to make an order granting a new  trial on its own motion.’”].)   Yet all of these cases pre-date,  and hence did not consider, the new language of Code of Civil Procedure section  662.5, which was amended in 2011 and took effect on January 1, 2012. (Stats.  2011, ch. 409, § 2 [AB 1403], effective Jan. 1, 2012.) While the previous  versions of the statute had multiple explicit references to motions for new  trial, the words “motion” and “application” do not appear in the current  version of the statute. These changes were more than cosmetic – in addition to  taking out the explicit references to motions for new trial, the Legislature  also updated section 662.5 to clarify the deadline for accepting or rejecting  an additur or remittitur, as well as requiring that a proposed order by file  and served upon acceptance of one. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subds. (b), (c).)  Upon the Court’s review of every published case since the new statute took  effect, it appears that none have considered the issue at hand. The Court  recognizes that this an issue of first impression.    Given the two independent avenues  for a remittitur (through a motion for new trial and sua sponte), the  question remains: does the Court have the authority to grant a remittitur here?   For two independent reasons, the  answer is yes.    First, on October 5, 2023,  Defendant issued its Notice of Intention to Move for New Trial (“Notice”). It  is undisputed that the Notice was timely filed according to the relevant  statutes; it is also undisputed that Defendant timely filed its Motion for New  Trial according to the relevant statutes. Among the grounds listed in the  Notice were (1) that the award of damages was excessive and (2) that the  evidence was insufficient to justify the verdict. This Notice should have put  Plaintiffs on notice that all awards of damages would be considered on a motion  for new trial. It is immaterial that Defendant did not initially argue that  Plaintiff Stephen Glick’s economic damages were excessive; at that point, the  Court’s jurisdiction was already complete. (See Neal, supra 7 Cal.App.4th at p. 1199–1200 [“generally a new  trial order will be affirmed if it should have been granted on any ground  stated in the notice of intention”]; see also Collins v. Sutter Mem’l Hosp. (2011)  196 Cal.App.4th 1, 20, quoting McFarland v. Kelly (1963) 220 Cal.App.2d  585, 589–590 [“the principle is sound that when the adverse party has been  given due notice that such a motion will be made and is fully apprised of the  grounds to be urged the jurisdiction of the court is complete”].)    As indicated above in the “Preliminary  Comments,” the Court raised the issue of Plaintiff Glick’s economic damages in  its first tentative decision and at the first hearing on November 16,  2023.  Because of Plaintiffs concerns  about due process, the Court continued the hearing until November 30, 2023 and  allowed both Parties to brief the issue of economic damages.    To the extent there may have  been a due process issue on the sole item of Plaintiff Stephen Glick’s economic  damages, that issue has now been remedied.   Both parties had the ability to preliminarily discuss the matter at the  hearing, submit supplemental briefs (which included Defendant’s current request  for a new trial on the economic damages awarded by the Jury to Plaintiff  Stephen Glick), and re-argue the merits of the issue at the continued hearing  on November 30, 2023. (Collins, supra, Cal.App.4th at pp. 21–22.)  Thus, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 657, the Court has the  authority to grant a new trial (and thus remittitur) on the basis of  Defendant’s Motion for New Trial.   Second, for the reasons that  will be discussed in the section immediately infra, it would be proper  here, on the ground of excessive economic damages awarded by the Jury to  Plaintiff Stephen Glick, to grant a new trial limited to the issue of those  damages. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (a)(2).) The Court sua sponte exercises  its discretion to consider those damages. (Ibid.) Again, to the extent  there might have been a due process issue by notifying the Parties of this with  the Court’s initial tentative order, that issue has now been completely  remedied in the manner discussed in the paragraphs immediately above.    ii.           Whether  a Remittitur Would be Appropriate   “Every person who suffers detriment  from the unlawful act or omission of another, may recover from the person in  fault a compensation therefor in money, which is called damages.” (Civ. Code, §  3281.)           “Detriment is a  loss or harm suffered in person or property.” (Civ. Code, § 3282.)           “Damages may be  awarded, in a judicial proceeding, for detriment resulting after the  commencement thereof, or certain to result in the future.” (Civ. Code, § 3283.)   “Whatever its measure in a given case, it is fundamental that  damages which are speculative, remote, imaginary, contingent, or merely  possible cannot serve as a legal basis for recovery. However, recovery is allowed if claimed  benefits are reasonably certain to have been realized but for the wrongful act  of the opposing party.” (Piscitelli v. Friedenberg (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th  953, 989, cleaned up.)   The Jury’s award of economic  damages in favor of Plaintiff Stephen Glick cannot stand because there was no  admissible evidence submitted at trial that would support a finding of any economic  damages.    The Jury’s award of these damages  was based on their assessment of future economic harms to Plaintiff Stephen  Glick. Plaintiff Stephen Glick admitted that he had already been fully paid for  all of the time that for which he had previously been unpaid. There was no  evidence submitted of any future economic harms from things such as: (1) not  getting further promotions and pay raises due to what occurred in this matter;  (2) not getting bonus pay due to what occurred in this matter; or (3) not  having access to other employment opportunities that paid more due to what  occurred in this matter. Plaintiff Stephen Glick simply testified that he  planned to retire early. However, his testimony was completely speculative and  thus inadmissible.    Plaintiff Stephen Glick, who at the  time of trial was 43 years old, testified that he planned to retire earlier than  he had previously planned. He testified that he planned to retire in seven to  nine years (i.e., when he would be approximately 50 or 52 years old) instead of  retiring in 14 years (when he would be 57 years old). However, he did not  testify that he is either currently unable to work, that he will be unable to  work at age 50 or 52, or that there was anything about what occurred that  actually affected his ability to work in the future. Put simply, without any  supporting evidence of a diminished future capacity to work because of what  happened in this case, it is pure speculation whether someone who is 43 years  old and says that they will retire in seven years (instead of in fourteen  years) will actually do what they say.    Marianne Inouye and Nicholas Buzas  discussed the present value of loss of future earnings by Plaintiff Stephen  Glick in a scenario where he chose to retire early. But neither of them could  opine on when Glick would actually retire. Only Marianne Inouye had actually  spoken with Plaintiff Stephen Glick, and the only thing he told her was that he  planned to retire early. He did not give her any reason to believe that this  was anything more than speculation on his part. Further, Marianne Inouye  admitted that if he decided not to retire early, there would be no future  economic damages.    No other evidence on the early  retirement or any other future economic harms was entered into evidence. As  mentioned above, all of the testimony above was speculative and thus  inadmissible.    There are two additional problems  with the testimony: the potential for a windfall, and the potential for a  double recovery.   As previously discussed, there is  no evidence of any causal link (i.e., there is no “but for cause” and no  “proximate cause”) between the proposed early retirement and what has occurred  in this matter. Without such a link, Plaintiff Stephen Glick would receive a  windfall were he to recover economic damages based solely on an early  retirement.    A further issue is one of double  recovery. Plaintiff Stephen Glick is still an officer with the LAPD. He was not  fired, and he did not lose any income because of the discrimination or retaliation  found by the jury.  No evidence was submitted  that he is either unable to work or that he will be unable to work due to  anything that happened in this matter. If Plaintiff Stephen Glick recovers  hundreds of thousands of dollars on the speculation that he will retire early —  even though there is no evidence that such retirement is necessary or that he  could not mitigate his damages by obtaining other employment — he could choose  not to retire early and obtain a double recovery.    In their Supplemental Brief,  Plaintiffs argues that a remittitur is not appropriate here, citing a number of  cases. Yet these cases either do not stand for what Plaintiffs claim or are  inapposite here.   In McCoy v. Pacific Maritime Association  (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 283, it was held that the trial court erred by  concluding that damages were not recoverable in the absence of a constructive  discharge. (Id., at p. 308 [“We conclude economic damages are awardable  to appellant despite the absence of a constructive discharge.”].) The Court  does not dispute this holding, but that is not the issue here.  Rather, the issue is that no admissible  evidence was submitted to show that any future economic damages would occur. McCoy  is not apposite. (See, e.g., Hinerfeld-Ward, Inc. v. Lipian (2010) 188  Cal.App.4th 86, 101 [“It is elementary that the language used in any opinion is  to be understood in the light of the facts and the issue then before the court.  Further, cases are not authority for propositions not considered.”])   In Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76  Cal.App.4th 895, the Court of Appeal considered a wide variety of economic  damages that could have occurred as a result of the discrimination an employee  faced, including damages from no longer being entitled to a promotion and  executive status. (Id., at pp. 908–910.) But in this case, Plaintiff  Stephen Glick only presented speculative evidence as to the amount of damages  that might occur from an early retirement, and the Jury awarded him future  economic damages on that basis. (It should be noted that the $621,358.00 awarded  by the jury was the exact amount of these retirement-focused damages as  testified to by Glick’s economic expert.   Thus, it is clear that the Jury did not award future economic damages on  any other basis.) While it is conceivable that evidence could have been  submitted on a wide variety of future economic damages that Plaintiff Stephen  Glick might suffer as a result of the issues in this case, no such evidence was  submitted at trial.   The other cases Plaintiffs rely  upon in their supplemental brief – Atkins v. City of Los Angeles (2017)  8 Cal.App.5th 696, 738; Hope v. California Youth Authority (2005) 134  Cal.App.4th 577; and Bihun v. AT&T Information Systems, Inc. (1993)  13 Cal.App.4th 976, disapproved in part on other grounds by Lakin v. Watkins  Associated Industries (1993) 6 Cal.4th 644, 664 – are similarly unavailing.   After weighing the evidence  submitted at trial, the Court is convinced from the entire record, including  reasonable inferences therefrom, that the Jury clearly should have reached a  different verdict. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) Specifically, it appears that a  new trial on the issue of future economic damages is warranted due to an award  of excessive damages, based on insufficiency of the evidence. (Ibid.)    Considering that an order granting  a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be proper – and in accordance  with both Defendant’s Motion for New Trial under Code of Civil Procedure  section 657 and the Court’s sua sponte discretion under Code of Civil  Procedure section 662.5, subdivision (a)(2) – the Court issues a conditional  order granting a new trial unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction  in damages. (See Tice v. Kaiser Co. (1951) 102 Cal.App.2d 44, 46 [“It is  not only the right, but the duty of the trial judge to grant a new trial when,  in his opinion, he believes the weight of the evidence to be contrary to the  finding of the jury. Trial judges have been commended, rather than condemned,  for their actions in granting new trial under these circumstances.”].) In the  Court’s independent judgment based on the evidence submitted at trial, the  Court determines that a fair and reasonable amount of economic damages for  Plaintiff Stephen Glick would be $0.00.            Given the above  holdings, the Court does not reach the issues surrounding whether improper  considerations affected the Jury.    3.       Plaintiff Alfred Garcia’s Noneconomic  Damages   The Jury awarded Plaintiff Alfred  Garcia $3,000,000.00 in past noneconomic damages and $1,500,000.00 in future  noneconomic damages.            As with  Plaintiff Stephen Glick, there was scant evidence submitted regarding Plaintiff  Alfred Garcia’s noneconomic damages.            As to past  noneconomic damages, Plaintiff Alfred Garcia testified: (1) that he felt  embarrassed by being benched for eight or nine months, particularly since this  was the only time he had ever been benched; (2) that he was shocked when he  received notice of the Board of Rights hearing; (3) that he did not allow  himself to be down on himself for too long, as he had to take care of his  family financially; (4) that within a week of being sent home, he was working  an off-duty security job; (5) that this was the lowest point in his entire  career; (6) that he felt hurt by the LAPD’s actions toward him, particularly  because he had been loyal to the LAPD and given them his life (including being  in witness protection as a gang expert); (7) that his wife was deeply upset by  the situation, and that her emotions in turn affected him; (8) that he never  told his daughters about what occurred because he wanted to remain a role model  to them; and (9) that he was able to stop his transfer to another station  because he wanted to keep working at the station he was at. No other evidence  was submitted as to past noneconomic damages.            The same  testimony was presented for future noneconomic damages. Notably, Plaintiff  Alfred Garcia testified that he is happy in the position that he is currently  in and that he has not tried to promote to a higher position.            The only  noneconomic harms Plaintiffs pleaded were garden-variety emotional harms. The  Court adopts its discussion supra in §II(B)(2)(a) regarding Plaintiffs  claiming only garden-variety emotional distress.            After weighing  the evidence submitted at trial, the Court is convinced from the entire record,  including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the Jury clearly should have  reached a different verdict. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) Specifically, it appears  that a new trial on the issue of past and future noneconomic damages is  warranted due to an award of excessive damages, based on insufficiency of the  evidence. (Ibid.)            Considering  that an order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be  proper, the Court exercises its discretion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 622.5, subdivision (a)(2) and issues a conditional order granting a new  trial unless Plaintiff Alfred Garcia consents to a reduction in damages. In the  Court’s independent judgment based on the evidence submitted at trial, the  Court determines that a fair and reasonable amount of damages for Plaintiff  Alfred Garcia would be $125,000.00. This figure accounts for $100,000.00 in  past noneconomic harms and $25,000.00 in future noneconomic harms.           Given the above  holdings, the Court does not reach the issues surrounding whether improper  considerations affected the Jury.    C.       Conclusion     The Motion for  New Trial is GRANTED.            It is  CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be  held, unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction in damages to a  total amount of $250,000.00.           It is  CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be  held, unless Plaintiff Alfred Garcia consents to a reduction in damages to a  total amount of $125,000.00.           Plaintiffs  shall each have thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of this Order  during which they may individually consent to their respective reduction of  damages set forth above. Failure to respond shall be deemed a rejection of the  reduction of damages, and a new trial limited to the issue of the rejecting  plaintiff’s damages shall be automatically granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5,  subd. (b).) If a plaintiff chooses to accept the reduction of damages, that plaintiff  shall concurrently serve and submit to the Court a proposed amended judgment  reflecting the modified judgment amount. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (c).)   III.      Motion  to Tax Costs   A.       Legal  Standard   “Except as otherwise expressly  provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to  recover costs in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd.  (b).)   Prevailing parties seeking to claim  costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a), and parties  seeking to contest costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule  3.1700(b).    B.      Discussion   Plaintiffs move the Court to award  $99,465.66 in costs, which would comprise of:   (1)        $775.00  in filing and motion fees;   (2)        $934.31  in jury fees;   (3)        $28,031.90  in deposition costs;   (4)        $2,947.21  for service of process;   (5)        $2,775.60  in witness fees;   (6)        $18,758.11  for models, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits;    (7)        $1,041.03  in electronic filing or service fees; and    (8)        $44,202.50  in “other” fees.    (MC-010.)   Defendant moves the Court to tax  $67,952.82 of these costs, arguing: (1) that Plaintiffs have not stated how  service of process was effectuated; (2) that ordinary witness fees should be  taxed; and (3) that the $44,202.50 in “other” fees (which comprises of $39,952.50  for trial technology services and $4,250.00 for two ADR mediation session fees)  should be taxed. (Motion to Tax Costs, pp. 5:26–27, 6:1–2, 6:4–21.)   Plaintiffs argue: (1) that  Plaintiffs will provide copies of proofs of service; (2) that the witness fees for  witnesses who had to be present but ultimately did not testify are still  recoverable, although Plaintiffs do not oppose an amendment to eliminate the  witness fees for Plaintiffs themselves; (3) that the technology costs are not  specifically enumerated in Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, and thus  they are allowable in the Court’s discretion; and (4) that mediation costs are  allowable in the Court’s discretion. (Opposition to Motion to Tax Costs, pp.  2:8–14, 4:1–25, 5:22–23, 7:24–28.)   The Court determines that  sufficient evidence has been provided regarding the services fees. All of these  costs will be allowed.    The Court determines that all of  the witness fees except for the witness fees for Plaintiffs themselves are  allowed. The Court taxes these costs by $620.00, which is the amount claimed  for Plaintiffs themselves.    The Court determines that the  technology costs were appropriately and reasonably incurred in this matter. All  of these costs will be allowed.    The Court declines to exercise its  discretion to allow the mediation costs. The Court will tax $4,250.00 in mediation  costs.    C.       Conclusion   The Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED  in part. Costs are TAXED by $4,870.00. Costs are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiffs  and against Defendant in the total amount of $94,595.66.  