  Case Number:  21TRCV00666    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    February 23, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      21TRCV00666
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                            Sebastian Medvei v.
Dominique Nikko Westmoreland, et al. 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Dominique Nikko Westmoreland
(No Opposition)
 
TRIAL DATE:                           March 24, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1)  Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant, Dominique Nikko
Westmoreland
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Deposition of Defendant, Dominique Nikko Westmoreland is GRANTED.  If the parties cannot agree on a date, time,
and/or place for the deposition, it shall be held in person on March 5, 2024
commencing at 10 a.m. at the offices of Plaintiff’s counsel
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
On
September 10, 2021, Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, Dominque Nikko Westmoreland, and DOES 1 through 100. The
Complaint alleges a cause of action for Malicious Prosecution. 
 
Plaintiff,
as a lawyer of Medvei Law Group, APC, represented a party that sued one of
Defendant’s clients, Brandi Linton, in Case No. 20STCV42456. Thereafter, in a
subsequent case, 21STCV07905, Defendant, via his client Brandi Linton, filed a
Complaint against Plaintiff, who is not an immigration consultant as defined in
the Immigrations Consultants Act (“ICA”), for violating the ICA. Plaintiff
informed Defendant that the ICA does not apply to attorneys. Plaintiff
repeatedly asked Defendant to dismiss the case and Defendant refused.
Eventually, Plaintiff served a motion for sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 on Defendant. In response to that motion, Defendant
voluntarily dismissed Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for Malicious
Prosecution.
 
On
October 7, 2021, Plaintiff notes that it served Defendant with a notice for a
deposition to be held on October 25, 2021, with no attending document requests.
However, Plaintiff notes that Defendant failed to appear on October 25, 2021,
and did not object to the notice. Thereafter, Plaintiff notes that the case was
stayed pending mediation, both on November 30, 2023, the stay was lifted after
denial of Defendant’s motion to enforce settlement on November 13, 2023.
 
On
December 15, 2023, Plaintiff notes he served Defendant with a second notice of
deposition for December 28, 2023, with no attending document requests. On
December 27, 2023, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant served an untimely written
objection to the second notice. The objection asserted: (1) Defendant objects
because the deposition date was unilaterally set without consultation with
Defendant as to his availability; and, (2) Defendant objects because the action
is stayed pending an appeal in this matter, which he, apparently, filed on
December 26, 2023. However, Plaintiff asserts that an appeal from a
non-appealable order does not stay the action, and here, no judgment has ever
been entered in this case. Instead, Plaintiff notes that the only order that was
entered by the Court on November 13, 2023 was the order denying Defendant’s
motion to enforce settlement and setting the trial in this matter. Plaintiff
asserts that an order denying a motion to enforce settlement is nonapplicable. 
 
            Plaintiff notes that although not applicable for this
motion, Plaintiff reached out to Defendant in an attempt to reschedule the
deposition for a date that worked for Defendant. Plaintiff notes that Defendant
was informed of the fact that an order denying a motion to enforce a settlement
is not appealable. Nonetheless, Plaintiff notes Defendant was not cooperative
with Plaintiff’s counsel to schedule a deposition, which is why Plaintiff has
brought this Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant.
 
            This hearing was originally set for February 6, 2023. At
the February 6, 2023 hearing, this Court continued the Motion to Compel Deposition
and allowed additional filing by either side by February 16, 2024. 
 
            On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a brief asserting
that the November 13, 2023 order was not appealable. 
 
            On February 16, 2024, Defendant Westmoreland filed a
brief arguing the order was appealable. On this date, Defendant Westmoreland
also filed an opposition brief to the Motion to Compel Deposition. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, section (a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  
 
The motion must “be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if
the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff again argues that the Court’s November 13, 2023 order is not
appealable. In Plaintiff’s argument, Plaintiff relies on Doran v. Magan (1999)
76 Cal.App.4th 1287 (“Doran”). In Doran, a defendant brought a
motion for judgement under section 664.6 based on a stipulated settlement in a
creditor action. (Doran, supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at 1292.) The trial court
in Doran denied the motion and the defendant filed a notice of appeal. (Ibid.)
in reviewing whether the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeal  had jurisdiction to review the denial of
entry of judgment, they noted: “It is the substance and effect of the
adjudication, and not the form, which determine if the order is interlocutory
and nonappealable, or final and appealable. [Citation.] If no issues in the
action remain for further consideration, the decree is final and appealable.
But if further judicial action is required for a final determination of the
rights of the parties, the decree is interlocutory. [Citation.] The decree will
not be appealable ‘unless it comes within the statutory classes of appealable
interlocutory judgments. (Id. at 1293.) The Court in Doran also
noted that there was not any statutory provision or case specifically
addressing whether the denial of a motion to enter a stipulation for judgment
under section 664.6 was appealable, they concluded that such an order could not
be a final judgment because it does not finally dispose of the action. In fact,
the Court noted that to the contrary, it “expressly leaves it open.” (Ibid.)
In this regard, the Fifth District Court of Appeal found that the denial of a
motion to enter judgment was similar to an unappealable denial of a motion for
summary judgment (Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s Supplemental Brief 
 
In
opposition, Defendant, Dominique Nikko Westmoreland argues that motions to
enforce a settlement have been held appealable because the effect of the order
was to finally determine the rights of the parties in an action by enforcing
the settlement agreement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6. Defendant
Westmoreland cites to two cases to emphasize this argument: (1) Hines v.
Lukes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1174 (“Hines”); and (2) Rezzadeh v.
Chiu 2021 WL 5873074 (“Rezzadeh”). However, these cases do not stand
for an opposite ruling than the Doran case cited to by Plaintiff. The
overarching theme of all of these cases is that an order is not appealable
unless it finally disposes of the action. 
 
In Hines,
a servient tenement owner brought action against the dominant tenement owner
for trespass, “interference with easement,” and declaratory relief. (Hines,
supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at 1175.) The servient tenement owner moved for an
entry of judgment pursuant to settlement, and the trial court granted the
motion. The dominant tenement owner then appealed. The Hines Court noted
that the Court granted the motion under Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6, but
failed to enter a formal judgment. Absent a formal entry of judgment, the
Second District noted that an appellate court may amend an order to include a
judgment if the effect of the order is to finally determine the rights of the
parties in the action. (Id. at 1183.) The Hines Court concluded
that the effect of the trial court’s order was to finally determine the rights
of the parties in the action by enforcing the settlement agreement. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, the Second District found that the order was appealable. 
 
Here,
Defendant Westmoreland notes that the settlement provided that Plaintiff would
dismiss the action against Defendant Westmoreland for confidential
consideration. However, in Plaintiff’s prior opposition brief on the Motion to
Enforce Settlement Agreement, Plaintiff noted that Defendant Westmoreland’s
motion does not seek any remedy that is available under section 664.6 because
she was not seeking a judgment. Instead, there was no request for a specific
judgment. Instead, Plaintiff argued, at the time, that all Defendant Westmoreland
was requesting was an order that the Plaintiff prepare an unspecified new
agreement for the parties to sign. 
 
This Court
notes that the November 13, 2023, order denying Defendant Westmoreland’s Motion
to Enforce Settlement did not dispose of any of the parties’ rights in this
action. As such, under both Doran and Hines, this order would not
be appealable. Even in Defendant Westmoreland’s unpublished, noncitable case of
Rezzadeh, the Court there only found that a trial court’s denial of a
motion to enforce settlement was appealable because the trial court’s order
read like a resolution of a summary judgment claim on a contract. Specifically,
the Fifth District there noted that the trial court’s order in Rezzadeh,
resolved what the Fifth District found to be the core issue in that case: the
extent to which and manner by which the settlement agreement permitted
cancellation of escrow. Here, the Court’s November 13, 2023 order does no such
thing. Instead, this Court’s denial of the motion did not dispose of any
rights, or decide any rights between the parties, and thus the matter is still
being adjudicated. This Court’s tentative ruling explicitly noted that its decision
hinged on whether or not there was an actual settlement agreement between the
party, the crux of the inquiry being whether there was an actual meeting of the
minds as to less than all of the settlement terms including the necessity of a
long-form written agreement and necessity of a release. After oral argument,
this Court concluded that there was no completed settlement to enforce. As
such, the Court maintains that its November 13, 2023 order was not an
appealable one, because it did not make its decision based on any issues
actually being litigated in the case as the trial court in the Rezzadeh
case did. This Court’s ruling was based on the arguments of the parties as to
whether the agreement was an actual settlement agreement – something this Court
determined it was not since the parties could not agree upon a non-litigated
resolution even with three or more sessions of help by Judge Tanaka. 
 
Additionally,
Defendant Westmoreland argues that this Court lacks jurisdiction to determine
whether her appeal is appealable. However, “[t]he existence of an appealable
judgment is a jurisdictional prerequisite to an appeal.” (Doran, supra,
76 Cal.App.4th at 1292.) This Court does not dispute it lacks appellate jurisdiction.
But, because there is no existence of an appealable judgment in this case, the
Court may nonetheless rule on the Motion to Compel Deposition in favor of
Plaintiff, because this action has not been stayed. 
 
Since this
action has not been stayed, Defendant Westmoreland must comply with the
deposition notice. 
 
C.   
¿¿ Sanctions
 
Here,
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions in the amount of $6,060. Pursuant to Code of
Civil procedure § 2025.450(g)(1), if a motion is granted, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction…in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
 
Here,
the Court denies the request for monetary sanctions because Defendant appears
to have a good faith, even though mistaken, belief that the Court’s prior
ruling was appealable.   
 
Notice of ruling to be served by Plaintiff.