  Case Number:  23SMCV03631    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Vaatete v. Lyft,
Inc. et al., Case No. 23SMCV03631
Hearing Date
November 3, 2023 
Defendant Lyft,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff Vaatete arranged
for a ride with defendant Lyft and alleges defendant Lyft driver Santoro struck
her with his vehicle. Lyft moves to compel arbitration. 
Maintaining a Lyft user account requires
accepting Lyft’s terms of service (TOS) and subsequent updates. Vaatete had a
Lyft account and accepted updated terms of service on December 9, 2020 (before
the incident) and January 4, 2023 (after the incident). McCachern decl. ¶12. Each
version of the TOS includes a clause requiring arbitration of “any dispute,
claim, or controversy based on past, present, or future events arising out of
or relating to ... the Lyft Platform[.]” Id. The agreement states it is
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA). Id., Exhs. 3, 5, 7 & 9. 
 
Lyft argues the claim
“aris[es] from or relating to the Lyft platform,” plaintiff accepted the TOS,
including the arbitration clause, so the matter should be referred to arbitration.
Vaatete argues she did not assent to the arbitration agreement because the TOS
are not displayed during account creation or when the TOS are updated. 
 
Lyft users are
provided a link to the 38-page TOS, which they may review (or not). Lyft states
the TOS could be reviewed by scrolling down, rather than clicking on a link. Regardless,
plaintiff does not dispute she agreed to the TOS and had the opportunity to
review them before accepting. Federal courts applying California law have
deemed the process by which Lyft users assent to the TOS to be valid. E.g., Osvatics
v. Lyft, Inc. (D.D.C. 2021) 535 F.Supp.3d 1, 11; Loewen v. Lyft, Inc. (N.D.
Cal. 2015) 129 F.Supp.3d 945, 966. The court finds plaintiff did assent to the
TOS, including the arbitration agreement.
 
Plaintiff next argues
the arbitration agreement does not cover her claims because she was a pedestrian,
not a passenger, when the accident occurred. The arbitration agreement contains
a delegation clause, stating “disputes about scope, applicability,
enforceability, revocability or validity of the arbitration agreement” will be
decided by the arbitrator. Lyft exh. 9. The Supreme Court held delegation
clauses in arbitration agreements are enforceable. Rent-A-Center, W., Inc.
v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 70.
 
Plaintiff’s claim
that the nature of the accident places it outside the arbitration agreement is one
of scope of the agreement. Under the delegation clause, it is to be decided by
the arbitrator. The same is true of her unconscionability arguments, since they
raise a dispute about the arbitration agreement’s enforceability or validity. Plaintiff’s
opposition does not address the delegation clause.
 
Finally, plaintiff
argues the matter should not be arbitrated due to the risk of inconsistent
rulings in the litigation against defendant Santoro (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc.
§1281.4). The Supreme Court held that under the FAA, which governs here, “an
arbitration agreement must be enforced notwithstanding the presence of other
persons who are parties to the dispute but not the arbitration agreement.” Moses
H. Cone Mem. Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 20. Since
the parties agree the FAA governs, Moses H. Cone controls. GRANTED.