  Case Number:  22STCV06115    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 6, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22STCV06115 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        John Doe v. Loyola
Marymount University, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, John Doe 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Loyola Marymount University  
 
TRIAL DATE:                        August 26, 2024  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Defendant, Loyola Marymount University to
Produce Employee Douglas Moore for Deposition, and to Produce Documents
                                                (2) Request for Sanctions
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1)  GRANTED
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s
Request for Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $3,000. 
                                                
 
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
February 17, 2022, John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action. On March 16, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants, Loyola Marymount
University (“LMU”) and Michael Mozilo (“Mozilo”). The FAC alleges the following
causes of action: (1) Discrimination under Education Code § 66251; (2)
Discrimination in Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act ; (3) Education Code
Section 220; (4) Negligence against Loyola Marymount University; (5) Breach of
Contract; (6) Negligence against Michael Mozilo and Does 50-99; (7) California
Civil Code § 1708.85 “Revenge Porn Statute”; (8) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; and (9) Injunctive Relief. Plaintiff brought this lawsuit
against LMU and Mozilo alleging that LMU failed to take appropriate action to
investigate and remedy alleged abusive conduct by Plaintiff’s fellow student
Mozilo. Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that (a) Mozilo unlawfully took
and distributed a video recording of Plaintiff to fellow students; (b) that
Mozilo and fellow students tormented and bullied Plaintiff based on the illicit
video; (c) Plaintiff’s fellow students threatened and harassed Plaintiff; (d)
that LMU’s employees, despite being aware of the misconduct, failed to
investigate or take action to prevent or remedy the abuse; and (e) Plaintiff
was forced to leave school, surrender an athletic scholarship, and sustained
substantial damages as a result of the misconduct and LMU’s failures to follow
its legal obligations and duties. 
 
Plaintiff
notes that he has taken and noticed the depositions of a number of different
LMU employees. Further, Plaintiff notes that he noticed the deposition of
another LMU employee, Douglas Moore, for November 27, 2023. However, Plaintiff
contends that LMU has not produced Mr. Moore for deposition, and has refused to
provide any specific dates on which they will agree to produce him. Plaintiff
also notes that Ms. Pazzani, counsel for LMU, has been out on medical leave,
and that LMU’s counsel has indicated that discovery be stayed until her return.
Plaintiff notes that it requested a sort of “middle ground” so that discovery
could continue in preparation of the August 2024 trial date. However, Plaintiff
suggests that LMU’s counsel’s position was steadfast and did not intend to
produce any further individuals for discovery until Ms. Pazzani’s return. But
Plaintiff notes that counsel for LMU has also indicated that they intend to
file their motion for summary judgment when Ms. Pazanni returns as well, and thus,
Plaintiff is seeking evidence from deposition testimony. As such, Plaintiff
moves for a ruling, ordering the taking of the deposition of Douglas
Moore.  
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
Motion to Compel the Deposition LMU Employee, Douglas Moore and Production of
Documents. On February 22, 2024 LMU filed an opposition. On February 28, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, section (a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  
 
The motion must “be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if
the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
 
B.     Discussion
 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Here, the Court finds the parties
have sufficiently met and conferred in good faith prior to the filing of this
motion. 
 
Motion
to Compel the Deposition
 
            Here, Plaintiff has provided that
good cause exists to compel the deposition of Douglas Moore and for him to
produce documents at his deposition, because he is an employee of LMU and is
the Risk Manager for LMU. Thus, Plaintiff argues that Mr. Moore has substantive
knowledge of LMU’s policies and practices, including LMU’s compliance with its
Title IC obligations, and also likely has information about how LMU responded
to Plaintiff’s complaints, reports, and requests for assistance, or, at a
minimum, how LMU should have responded if complying with their policies. Plaintiff
also suggests Mr. Moore will have information regarding LMU’s investigation
into the matters at issue in this lawsuit, including Michael Mozilo’s actions.
Further, Plaintiff contends that Mr. Moore Is likely to have information about
LMU’s insurance coverage. 
 
            Further, Plaintiff argues that its document
requests seek documents in the possession, custody, or control of Mr. Moore
relating to Plaintiff’s allegations, including records pertaining to Plaintiff
and communications between LMU employees about Plaintiff and the issues that
gave rise to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
            In opposition, LMU argues that this
Court should not compel Mr. Moore’s deposition because he was not a percipient
witness and has no independent knowledge of the subject matter of Plaintiff’s
civil complaint, that Mr. Moore’s deposition is duplicative of the extensive
discovery Plaintiff has already conducted; and that Mr. Moore’s deposition is
not required simply because he verified LMU’s discovery responses. 
 
            While Plaintiff concedes that the
cases cited to by LMU stand for the argument that simply because an individual
signs for discovery verifications, it does not mean privileged material within
them is 100% discoverable, or allowed to be asked of at depositions. However,
Plaintiff also notes that those cases do not involve the discovery of
information sought in this case, and are not analogous to the case at bar. This
Court agrees, and notes that certainly, Mr. Moore’s verification on the
discovery requests indicate to Plaintiff, and the Court that his testimony can
provide potentially discoverable evidence during his deposition. As such, the
Court GRANTS the motion as to the taking of the deposition of Mr. Moore on or
before March 29, 2024. 
 
As
to the issue of waiting to continue discovery until after Ms. Pazzani had
returned, the Court seeks a status update as the month of February is now over,
and according to representations made by LMU and its counsel, Ms. Pazzani
should have returned by the hearing date. 
 
 
C.    Sanctions 
 
Along
with Plaintiff’s motion to compel, Plaintiff is seeking monetary sanctions in
the amount of $8,170. This amount is based on Plaintiff’s representations his
counsel spent 10.2 hours reviewing the extensive record and correspondence in
this case, researching relevant statutes and case law, and drafting the motion
papers. The hourly rate identified is $550/hour. Additionally, another
attorney, whose hourly rate is $625/hour notes that she estimates spending
three hours total on this motion. Here, the Court finds that both the hourly
rates and time spend/estimated to be spent on this motion are excessive.
Nonetheless, the Court finds that the bringing of the motion was necessary
because of LMU’s arguments that it would not continue discovery proceedings until
the return of one attorney’s leave.  Absent an order from the Court, the Court
determines that it is no a substantial justification to refuse to participate
in civil discovery indefinitely because of a leave of absence by a single
in-house attorney.  
 
As
such, the Court tentatively awards monetary sanction in the amount of $3,000 to
be paid by Defendant LMU and/or their counsel of record by March 29, 2024. 
¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 