 Case Number:  22TRCV00976    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 6, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      22TRCV00976
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Andrea Quinones v.
Rathaur Subway, Inc. dba Subway, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Rathaur Subway, Inc. dba Subway  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant/Cross-Defendant,
Kathleen R. Mastagni 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       May 20, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion for Summary
Adjudication 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                   (1) DENIED. 
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
This
action was initiated on October 19, 2022, when Plaintiff, Andrea Quinones
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Rathaur Subway, Inc., Kathy
Mastagni, and DOES 1 through 25. The Complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) General Negligence; and (2) Premises Liability. 
 
On
January 17, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Kathleen R. Mastagni
(erroneously sued as Kathy Mastagni) (“Mastagni”), filed a Cross-Complaint for:
(1) Implied Indemnity; (2) Express Indemnity; (3) Contribution; and (4)
Declaratory Relief. 
 
Further,
on February 24, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Rathaur
Subway, Inc. (“Subway”) also filed a Cross-Complaint for: (1) Implied
Indemnity; (2) Express Indemnity; (3) Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief.

 
            Subway now files a Motion for
Summary Adjudication as to its first and second causes of action in its
cross-complaint, for Implied and Express Indemnity.
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 25, 2023, Subway filed a Motion for
Summary Adjudication. On December 20, 2023, the parties filed a joint
stipulation to continue the Motion for Adjudication Judgment. On February 23,
2024, Mastagni filed an opposition. On February 27, 2023, Mastagni also filed
an ex parte motion to shorten time for her opposition, which was granted.  On March 4, 2024, Subway filed a reply
brief.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
            Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Subway moves for summary adjudication on the grounds that it argues that its
First and Second causes of action in its cross-complaint (Implied and Express
Indemnity), can be summarily adjudicated as there are no triable issues of
material fact. 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B. Discussion 
 
            The Motion for
Summary Adjudication is based on the presentation of the following asserted set
of facts: Subway contends that it contracted with Gurbachan Grewal in 2006 to
lease Suite A for the operation of a restaurant. On November 10, 2020, Subway
notes that Mastani purchased the subject property, and on July 29, 2021, Subway
and Mastani contracted into a Second Amendment to Lease Agreement for Suite A.
The contract defined Subway as tenant while Mastagni was landlord. This lease
agreement is the crux of Subway’s causes of action in its cross-complaint for
implied and express indemnity, as well as the crux of the issue in this Motion
for Summary Adjudication as to those causes of action. The lease, according to
Subway, contained the following indemnity provisions: 
 
 
“SECTION
FOUR
RENT
 
Total Operating Costs Defined Total Operating
Costs shall mean all sums paid or incurred by Landlord for the maintenance and
operation of the Building, including both costs allocable to the buildings and
to all common areas. Such costs shall include, without limitation, the costs
and expense attributable to the following: repair and maintenance of the
buildings and improvements constituting the Building, resurfacing,
repainting and restriping the parking areas; cleaning, sweeping, trash
removal and other janitorial services, policing and security services; the
purchase, construction, and maintenance of refuse receptacles; installing and
maintaining plantings and landscaping, directional signs and other marks, car
stops and the like, the costs of power, lighting, and any other utilities
furnished to the common areas; premiums on fire, public liability and property
damage insurance. 
 
SECTION
SEVEN
REPAIRS
AND MAINTENANCE
 
Landlord shall, at his expense, maintain the
exterior of the Building, including the roof, walls, foundations,
walks, driveways, parking areas, and the structural portion of the premises in good
condition and repair, except when damaged by the Tenant….
Further, Landlord represents and warrants to Tenant that the Premises and the
Building are in compliance with all applicable federal, state, county and
municipal building codes, laws and regulations including the Americans with
Disability Act of 1990. Landlord agrees to indemnify Tenant for any
damages ensuing from any claims or lawsuits brought by any person, entity or
attorney general for violation of any such code, law or regulation. Any
alterations required to bring the Premises or the Building into compliance with
any such code, law or regulation shall be Landlord’s sole expense and
responsibility and any changes incurred by Landlord shall not be charged back
to Tenant. 
 
SECTION
TWELVE
NON-LIABILITY
OF LANDLORD FOR DAMAGES
 
… Landlord shall indemnify Tenant for any
loss occurring in the common areas.” 
 
(Subway’s UMF 10.)
 
            Based
on the above provisions, Subway argues that Kathleen Mastagni is barred from
her claims in her cross-complaint because of the indemnification provisions. Specifically,
Subway asserts that theses indemnity provisions upon which it bases its
cross-complaint requires Mastagni to defend and indemnify Subway. Subway relies
on Plaintiff’s Complaint, which alleges: ““Defendants negligently, carelessly,
recklessly, and/or wantonly managed, owned, maintained, operated, controlled
and safeguarded the premises located at 11916 Aviation Blvd, Inglewood, CA
90304 such that a truncated dome ADA pad surface was left in disrepair thereby
constituting a dangerous area, Defendants failed to barricade the area and
failed to warn of the hazardous condition on the premises, and/or prematurely
and/or incorrectly allowed food traffic in the area where the dangerous
condition existed, rendering the areas on said premises dangerous …” thereby
causing injuries and damages. Based on this allegation, Subway argues that it
was not involved in the common area parking lot, walkway or truncated dome
planning, design, or installation, nor was it involved in any other elements of
the construction. 
 
            The
vast majority of evidence relied upon by Subway in making this motion are
pleadings (both initial and responsive), as distinct from depositions,
discovery responses, and other evidence.  The allegations in a Complaint or
cross-complaint and affirmative defenses here demonstrate that a “claim” has
been made which is one of the operative grounds for indemnification in the parties’
contract.  The evidence that is presented
shows that plaintiff will testify that she caught her foot on an uplifted edge
of the ADA pad referred to by the moving and opposing papers as a truncated dome
mat.  Mastagni submitted deposition
testimony and declarations showing a lack of notice or knowledge of any damage
or of any maintenance issue with the ADA pad until the incident itself gave the
parties notice that a potentially dangerous condition existed in the parking
lot at the premises.  Plaintiff also
testified that the store manager came out and excitedly uttered that he thinks
he knows how the plaintiff fell.  But
there is no evidence presented in either side’s papers as to how the pad became
uplifted or whether anyone noticed or reported that the edge was not secured to
the parking surface.  There is no
declaration of an expert witness that the ADA pad showed signs of being disturbed,
or of being cut or pulled, or even of being an open and obvious hazard.  There is no proof that the parking lot or its
ADA pad were in violation of any “code, law or regulation” as the indemnification
provision requires.  The Court is thus
presented with a question as to whether the moving party has met its initial
burden of proving the absence of a disputed issue or material fact, including
the reasonable inferences that may be drawn from the facts presented.  The indemnification provision at issue here contains
an exception for damage caused by the tenant; otherwise the landlord is
responsible for the parking lot and its maintenance.  But the inference a jury may reasonably draw from
the evidence is that something occurred with the ADA pad between the January 2021
formal inspection of the premises and the December 2021 incident.  Was that something a violation of any “code,
law or regulation”?  Was that something caused
by the tenant?  In the Court’s view, the
answers to these questions are the moving party’s burden on a dispositive
motion, a burden that has not been met here.
 
For
express indemnity, “[a]n indemnitee seeking to recover on an agreement for
indemnification must allege the parties’ contractual relationship, the
indemnitee’s performance of that portion of the contract which gives rise to
the indemnification claim, the facts showing a loss within the meaning of the
parties’ indemnification agreement, and the amount of damages sustained.” (Four Star Electric, Inc. v. F & H
Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1380.) Further, for equitable
indemnity, “[t]o state a claim for equitable indemnity, a defendant must allege
the same harm for which he may be held liable is properly attributable—at least
in part—to the cross-defendant.” (Platt
v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d
1439, 1445, fn.7.) For either of these causes of action, Subway has not carried
its initial burden in providing evidence for this Court to determine that the
indemnification provisions in the lease absolutely apply in the context of
Subway. As such, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 