 Case Number:  23TRCV02570    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 6, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02570
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Kevin
Symons v. General Motors, LLC, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,
General Motors, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Kevin Symons 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
(2) Motion to Strike 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED
(2) Defendant’s Motion to
Strike is MOOTED
 
¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff, Kevin Symons
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors (“GM”) and
DOES 1 through 20. On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Fraud – Concealment; (2)
Business and Professions Code § 17200; (3) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (4) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; (5) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code §
1793.2(b). 
 
On October 31, 2023, this Court SUSTAINED GM’s demurrer
as to the original complaint and ruled that the Motion to Strike was mooted. Plaintiff
amended the allegations and served a FAC, to which Defendant GM has now filed another
Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
            
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On December
20, 2023, Defendant, GM filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On February 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed opposition papers. On February 28, 2024, Defendant, GM
filed a reply briefs.
 
 
¿II.
MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
¿ 
GM demurs
to Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that it argues the First Cause of
Action for Fraudulent Concealment and Second Cause of Action for Violation of
Business and Professions Code § 17200 fail to state sufficient facts to state a
cause of action against Defendant, GM.  
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.
Demurrer 
¿ 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of
action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain
if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A
demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims
renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is
supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
Fraudulent Concealment 
 
Specificity
Requirement 
 
 Defendant GM argues that Plaintiff’s fraud
claim fails as a matter of law because it is not pleaded with the requisite
specificity. The elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment are:
(1) concealment of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose;
(3) the defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it known the fact;
and (5) damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be
alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy
of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
. GM
asserts that Plaintiff’s fraud claim fails because Plaintiff did not: (1) the
identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly concealed material facts or
made untrue representations about his Bolt; (2) their authority to speak and
act on behalf of GM; (3) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in Plaintiff’s
Bolt at the time of sale; (4) any interactions with GM before or during the
purchase of his Bolt; or (5) GM’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff to
purchase the specific Bolt at issue. The Court disagrees. In fact, the
allegations in Plaintiff’s FAC are exceptionally detailed. Although it is true
that the FAC fails to allege the names of the persons who concealed facts or
who knew of a battery defect in the subject vehicle, details of that nature are
required in AFFIRMATIVE misrepresentation cases, not concealment cases. 
 
This Court
finds that the FAC meets the pleading standard for fraudulent concealment.
However, with fraudulent concealment, California law, a duty to disclose
material facts may arise (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship
with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Falk v. General
Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1098-1099 citing LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326.) 
The Opposition alleges that the FAC contains allegations supporting that
the defective battery was a material fact, and that GM had exclusive knowledge
of non-public information.
Transactional
Relationship
Here, GM
does not argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege a transactional relationship
between itself and Plaintiff, nor does it argue that Plaintiff has failed to
allege other circumstances giving rise to a duty to disclose. Nonetheless, this
Court notes that absent a fiduciary relationship between the parties, a duty to
disclose can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the
material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also
suppressing the material fact. (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,
336.) In Bigler-Engler, the Court of Appeals reversed a verdict for
fraudulent concealment against the manufacturer of a medical device because the
manufacturer and the plaintiff (who was injured by using the device) did not
have the required direct transactional relationship. (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 314-15.) There, the plaintiff did not obtain the device
directly from the manufacturer but from a medical group that sold and leased
such devices. (Id. at 287, 314.) The Court of Appeals went on to
explain, the lack of direct dealings between the plaintiff and the manufacturer
was fatal to the plaintiff’s argument that the manufacturer had a duty to
disclose. (Id. at 312 [“Where, as here, a sufficient relationship or
transaction does not exist, no duty to disclose arises even when the defendant
speaks.”].)
 
In a fraud
action based on nondisclosure, if the duty to disclose arises from the making
of representations that were misleading or false, then those allegations should
be described. (Alfaro, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1384.) Further,
“mere conclusionary allegation that the omissions were intentional and for the
purpose of defrauding and deceiving plaintiffs and bringing about the
purchase…and that plaintiffs relied on the omissions in making such purchase
are insufficient to show fraud by concealment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 347.) Here, Plaintiff does not seem to allege a direct
transactional relationship between himself and GM.  Instead, Plaintiff contends that a
transactional relationship is not required for GM to have a duty to disclose
and relies on the material fact being concealed by GM – who allegedly had
exclusive knowledge. The Court notes that the FAC does allege that from
September 2014 to at least February 2019, Defendant issued many “Costumer
Satisfaction Program to its dealers in the United States, but not to its
customers, warning about the battery defects in the Bolt EV vehicles. 
 
Although a
transactional relationship has not been alleged or argued, Plaintiff does argue
that the battery defect is a material fact. As to the second potentila ground
for a duty to disclose, Plaintiff argues that the FAC sufficiently alleges exclusive
knowledge of the claimed material fact. The FAC alleges that GM possessed
superior and exclusive knowledge regarding the defect through various means,
including, but not limited to, customer complaints and internal testing. (FAC,
¶ 33.) The FAC also alleges that GM’s concealment of this battery defect was
material and Plaintiff relied on Defendant GM’s omissions and concealment of
material facts regarding the nature and quality of the vehicle and existence of
the battery defect. (FAC, ¶¶ 30, 35.) The FAC also contends that GM knowingly
and intentionally concealed material facts and breached its duty not to do so.
(FAC, ¶ 30.) Plaintiff also alleges that he had a reasonable expectation that
the Vehicle would not expose him and other vehicle occupants to such a safety
hazard, and that no reasonable consumer expects a vehicle to be designed,
manufactured and assembled such that a defect will pose a significant fire risk.
(FAC, ¶ 31.)  But the Complaint does not
allege that plaintiff actually encountered a safety hazard or experienced what the
FAC vaguely alleges to be facts revealed by customer complaints and internal
testing.
 
Here, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged that had he received information
about the consumer complaints, or other non-public material allegedly issued by
GM, that he would not have bought the vehicle. The Court will invite oral
argument as to whether there exists any general duty by a motor vehicle
manufacturer to disclose to a consumer that it has had warranty complaints or
reports of malfunctions or that a component or system in a prior version of a battery
has been the subject of repair recommendations or procedures. The creation of
such a duty seems better left to the policy-making branches of government
rather than the judiciary. Such a duty seems to implicate balancing the burden
that would be placed on manufacturers of such a broad duty against the
perceived value that disclosures of such a wide array of information might
yield for consumers. The law already recognizes a duty to recall or retrofit
(see, e.g., Hernandez v. Badger Construction Equipment Co. (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1791, 1827; Lunghi v. Clark Equipment Co. (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 485, 494), but such a cause of action requires harm in the form of
personal injury rather than the economic losses alleged in the FAC here. (The
Court is mindful that a claim for fraudulent inducement by concealment is not
subject to demurrer on the ground it is barred by the economic loss rule,
pending a decision by the California Supreme Court on certified question from
the Ninth Circuit and on petition for review of Dhital v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828.)
 
 
Business and Professions Code § 17200
            Lastly, GM argues
that Plaintiff has failed to allege specific facts sufficient to establish the
cause of action for Business and Professions Code § 17200. To set forth a claim for a
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff
must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A
cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a
tort or contract action.” (Cortez v.
Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) Here, the Court contends that Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged the unlawful behavior for which it bases its action, besides noting
that GM’s behavior violates the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; does not
contend how GM’s actions were unfair besides alleging conclusory allegations
that it violated public policy; and as noted above, Plaintiff’s FAC is devoid
of the specificity required to plead fraud since the FAC does not make this clear.
As such, the cause of action is SUSTAINED. Because this is the second time
Plaintiff has been unable to successfully plead facts to sufficiently support
this cause of action, this Court will require oral argument on whether
Plaintiff truly believes he can sufficiently amend another pleading. 