  Case Number:  23STCV19611    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion of Defendants to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
The motion is denied.
Twenty days to answer. 
 
Background
Plaintiff BRAVHART, L.P. (“Plaintiff”) brings this
action against LOS FELIZ INVESTORS, LLC; ZWICK CONSTRUCTION COMPANY; and LATERRA
DEVELOPMENT, LLC (“Defendants”), alleging that Defendants’ construction of an
apartment complex next door to Plaintiff’s property caused damage to Plaintiff’s
property. Plaintiff alleges three causes of action: (1) Negligence, (2) Nuisance,
and (3) Trespass. Plaintiff seeks punitive damages for the nuisance and trespass
causes of action.
Defendants filed a motion to strike the punitive
damages allegations from the Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
Legal Standard 
A court properly grants a motion to strike punitive
damages when the complaint fails to set forth the elements in the general
punitive damage statute in Civil Code § 3294. Turman v. Turning Point of
Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63. These elements consist
of allegations that the defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” Civil
Code § 3294. Relevant here, Civil Code § 3294(c) defines “malice” as conduct “intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel an unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.” (Id.)
A plaintiff must plead these elements with “ultimate facts
showing an entitlement to such relief.” Clauson v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255. In considering a motion to strike, a court must read
the allegations in the complaint “as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Id.) Thus, a complaint that describes conduct from
which a conscious disregard for parties’ rights may be inferred is sufficient
to state a claim for punitive damages.  SKF
Farms v. Sup. Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 907. In contrast, merely
conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to
support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. See
Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal. App. 3d 864, 872. Alleging that
persons acted “with the permission and consent” of all defendants including
corporate defendants is sufficient to plead corporate employer liability for
punitive damages. O’Hara v. Western Seven Trees Corp. (1977) 75 Cal.
App. 3d 798, 806. 
 Analysis   
A cause of action for trespass supports an award of
punitive damages. Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments
(2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 1004, 1055.  A
plaintiff may recover punitive damages for a nuisance claim that is an
intentional tort. Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal. App. 3d 903, 920
(punitive damages recoverable where plaintiff alleged in nuisance claim that
defendant “had actual knowledge of defective conditions” and alleged that
defendant acted with knowledge of the consequences of damage caused to plaintiff).
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants tied-back and/or
shored within the subsurface of Plaintiff’s property even though Defendants had
first requested use and/or access to Plaintiff’s property for such work and
Plaintiff had not provided consent for the work. (Compl., ¶¶ 9-10.) According
to Plaintiff, Defendants’ construction, including the tie-back or shoring, caused
physical damage to Plaintiff’s property, and blocked or impeded the ingress and
egress to Plaintiff’s property and the street parking. (Id., ¶¶ 11, 14,
16, 17.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ conduct created, or allowed to be
created, dangerous conditions on Plaintiff’s property that caused Plaintiff’s
harm, and that Defendants acted intentionally, unreasonably, and/or were
negligent and/or reckless. (Id., ¶¶ 19-20, 23, 28, 30.)
These allegations adequately plead an intentional
tort, i.e., that Defendants had knowledge that Plaintiff did not consent to the
work Defendants wanted to do that would impact Plaintiff’s property and they
did the work anyways. Plaintiff therefore is entitled to seek punitive damages
for both its nuisance and its trespass claims. 
The Complaint contains sufficient factual allegations
to support Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff alleges that with
the actions cited above, Defendants “individually or in concert, acted with an
intent and/or reckless/conscious disregard of the rights of [Plaintiff] (with
such action(s) being grossly negligent, malicious, and/or oppressive.” (Id.,
¶¶ 20, 31.) The inference from the allegations in the Complaint, taken as a
whole, is that Defendants knew Plaintiff had not consented to the tie-back or
shoring, and/or access to Plaintiff’s property, and Defendants intentionally,
unreasonably, negligently and/or recklessly went ahead and undertook these
actions knowing they would cause damage to Plaintiff, and that such damage
occurred. These allegations suffice to show, at the pleading stage, that
Defendants acted with conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights as required to
plead a claim for punitive damages. Moreover, Plaintiff’s allegation that each
of the Defendants participated in this conduct individually or in concert with
one another is sufficient, at the pleading stage, to plead punitive damages
against the corporate Defendants. 
The Court therefore denies the motion to strike. 