  Case Number:  22STCV26639    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARYAM KHANI,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
BOBBY BABAK SAADIAN, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV26639
  Hearing Date:  October 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for summary judgment




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 17, 2022, Plaintiff filed
this legal malpractice action against Defendants Bobby Babak Saadian and
Wilshire Law Firm, PLC. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
on December 6, 2022, asserting causes of action for (1) legal malpractice, (2)
breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) fraud. The third cause of action has been
stricken by demurrer. 
            Plaintiff was injured in an auto
accident in September 2020 and hired the Defendants to represent her in the
underlying action. (Def.’s Stmt. of Undisputed Facts (UF) 1.) The underlying
action settled in June 2021 for $250,000, the insurance policy limit. (UF 3.)
Afterwards, Plaintiff complained to Defendants that the amount was insufficient
to cover her injuries and inquired about the other driver contributing to the
settlement. (UF 4.) Defendants explained to Plaintiff that the settlement had
been finalized and that there would be no contribution from the other driver.
(UF 5-7.) Defendants reminded Plaintiff that she had been informed of this
prior to signing the settlement. (Ibid.) Ultimately, Plaintiff signed an
“Acknowledgment of Understanding Settlement Terms,” acknowledging that she had
been fully informed of the settlement terms and was fully agreeing to every
term. (UF 10.) The acknowledgment also released Defendants from any further
obligations related to the underlying claim. (Ibid.)   
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’
negligent representation and advice caused her to: obtain an insufficient
amount from the underlying action; be exposed to unnecessary medical bills;
bear responsibility for liens in favor of certain health care providers and
incur attorney’s fees to resolve such obligations; and suffer emotional
distress. (FAC ¶ 13.)  
            On May 28, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff filed her opposition on
September 25, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on October 2, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s Objections

Plaintiff
     did not file any objections. Arguments in the opposition brief or separate
     statement do not constitute proper objections. “All written objections to
     evidence must be served and filed separately from the other papers in
     support of or in opposition to the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
     3.1354(b).) “[O]bjections must not be restated or reargued in the separate
     statement.” (Ibid.) 

Defendants’ Objections

Defendants’
     objections are also improperly stated. Each objection must “[q]uote or set
     forth the objectionable statement or material.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
     3.1354(b)(3).) Defendants merely identify the paragraph number without
     setting forth the objectionable material.  
     

DISCUSSION
I. Statute of
Limitations
“An action against an attorney for a
wrongful act or omission, other than for actual fraud, arising in the
performance of professional services shall be commenced within one year after
the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have
discovered, the facts constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years
from the date of the wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.6(a).) 
“Actual injury occurs when the client
suffers any loss or injury legally cognizable as damages in a legal malpractice
action based on the asserted errors or omissions.” (Jordache Enterprises,
Inc. v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 743.) “Negligent
legal advice which induces a client to enter into a binding contract resolving [a
dispute] results in actual injury at the point of entry.” (Hensley v.
Caietti (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1165, 1175.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff knew or
should have known of her injury at the time the settlement agreement was
executed, in June 2021. (UF 3.) Defendants contend that Plaintiff had knowledge
of her injury in June 2021 because she complained to Defendants about the
inadequacy of the settlement amount and their failure to pursue the other
driver’s assets. (UF 5-8.) Plaintiff filed this action in August 2022, more
than one year after June 2021. This satisfies Defendants’ initial burden of
showing that the action is time-barred as a matter of law. 
Plaintiff argues that the statute of
limitations does not apply due to tolling and delayed discovery.
a. Tolling
The statute of limitations is tolled while
“[t]he attorney continues to represent the plaintiff regarding the specific
subject matter in which the alleged wrongful act or omission occurred.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.6(a)(2).) Tolling ends “[a]fter a client has no reasonable
expectation that the attorney will provide further legal services.” (Flake
v. Neumiller & Beardslee (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 223, 231.) 
In June 2021, Plaintiff signed the
aforementioned distribution and acknowledgment releasing Defendants from any
further obligations related to the underlying case. (UF 10.) At that point,
Plaintiff had “no reasonable expectation that the attorney will provide further
legal services.” (See Flake, supra, 9 Cal.App.5th at p. 231.) At the
latest, Defendants aver that they stopped all work on the underlying matter
upon filing for dismissal in July 2021. (UF 12.) 
Plaintiff does not dispute signing the
distribution and acknowledgment but avers that she was told the case was not
finalized and that Defendants would continue to handle medical bills and liens.
(Khani Decl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff avers that she was told the process would take
several months before she would receive the final distribution and accounting.
(Ibid.) Thus, Plaintiff understood that Defendants continued to
represent her while they maintained her settlement funds in trust and
negotiated her medical liens. (Ibid.)   
Plaintiff’s evidence is insufficient to
raise an inference that the statute was tolled. Plaintiff merely avers that she
was “informed” by some unspecified person that the case was not finalized.
Plaintiff has no evidence that Defendants in fact continued working on her case
past June or July 2021. Plaintiff also does not dispute receiving an email
informing her that “all reductions have been negotiated, re-negotiated, and finalized.”
(UF 5.) Plaintiff does not dispute receiving another email informing her that
the medical bills could not be reduced any further and asking her to sign the
distribution agreement “so we can send you the check.” (UF 9.) Plaintiff’s
vague reference to being told that Defendants would continue to negotiate the
medical bills on her behalf does not constitute “substantial responsive
evidence” sufficient to raise a factual dispute. (See Sangster, supra, 68
Cal.App.4th at p. 163.)  
Even assuming the statute was tolled until
July 2021, Plaintiff still filed this action more than one year later. Thus,
tolling does not save the claim from the statute of limitations.
b. Delayed Discovery
“[T]he one-year limitations period of
section 340.6 is triggered by the client's discovery of the facts constituting
the wrongful act or omission, not by his discovery that such facts constitute
professional negligence.” (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin
Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 685, internal
citations omitted.) “The test is whether the plaintiff has information of
circumstances sufficient to put a reasonable person on inquiry, or has the
opportunity to obtain knowledge from sources open to his or her investigation.”
(Ibid.) “A plaintiff need not be aware of the specific ‘facts’ necessary
to establish the claim; that is a process contemplated by pretrial discovery.
Once the plaintiff has a suspicion of wrongdoing, and therefore an incentive to
sue,” the statute begins running. (Genisman v. Carley (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 45, 51.) 
Plaintiff argues that delayed discovery
applies because she did not receive her medical records until June 2022, which
revealed that her medical providers had estimated her cost of care at $1.2
million. (Khani Decl. ¶ 22.) However, the medical records and precise amount
are “ancillary to the allegations of misconduct.” (See Peregrine, supra,
133 Cal.App.4th at p. 685.) They are “merely evidence” of Defendants’ purported
wrongdoing. (Ibid.) Plaintiff already believed as early as June 2021
that the settlement amount was insufficient and that Defendants had failed to
pursue a higher amount. (UF 4-7.) It is immaterial that Plaintiff did not know
the full extent of the deficiency until she obtained her medical records. The
discovery rule does not require a plaintiff’s knowledge of all facts supporting
a claim. (Genisman, supra, 29 Cal.App.5th at p. 51.)  
By clearly expressing concern over the
$250,000 settlement amount and accusing Defendants of failing to pursue the
other driver’s assets, Plaintiff demonstrated her knowledge that Defendants “had
done something wrong.” (See Peregrine, supra, 133 Cal.App.4th at p.
685.) In other words, Plaintiff was on inquiry notice. (Ibid.) Thus, the
statute of limitations began running in June 2021, making the complaint
untimely.   
In sum, Defendants have demonstrated that
the complaint is barred by the one-year statute of limitations, and Plaintiff
has failed to raise a factual dispute as to tolling or delayed discovery.
Therefore, the claims fail as a matter of law regardless of the substantive
merits.  
 
II.
Causation and Damages
“In a litigation malpractice action, the
plaintiff must establish that but for the alleged negligence of the
defendant attorney, the plaintiff would have obtained a more favorable judgment
or settlement in the action in which the malpractice allegedly occurred.” (Viner
v. Sweet (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.) “[T]he crucial causation inquiry
is what would have happened if the defendant attorney had not
been negligent.” (Id. at p. 1242.) “The plaintiff in a malpractice
action must establish that the underlying judgment lost as the result of the
attorney's error could have been collected.” (Wise v. DLA Piper LLP (US)
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1190.) “The element of collectibility requires a
showing of the debtor's solvency.” (Ibid.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot
prove she would have received a judgment or settlement greater than the policy
limit of $250,000 because in her deposition, Plaintiff was unable to identify
facts showing that the other driver possessed assets beyond $250,000, or
refused to disclose such facts under the attorney-client privilege. (UF 15; see
also Xebec Development Partners, Ltd. v. National Union Fire Ins. Co.
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 501, 569 [“A party who asserts a privilege as to
evidence essential to some element of his or her case will usually be obliged
as a practical matter to forsake that element”].) This satisfies Defendants’
initial burden of showing that Plaintiff cannot meet the causation element of
her claim.  
In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel avers
that “[a]n investigation and asset search was conducted through the resources
available to my office including, interviews and records searches and we were
able to determine that the underlying defendant owned real property and had
assets that could have be utilized to satisfy a judgement above the $250,000
policy limits.” (Seuthe Decl. ¶ 8.)  
However, Plaintiff presents no evidence of
the other driver’s assets, nor evidence that the assets could have been applied
to the underlying judgment (e.g., not exempt). Counsel’s bare declaration does
not constitute “substantial responsive evidence” sufficient to raise a triable
issue. (See Sangster, supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at p. 163.) Moreover,
Plaintiff “cannot have it both ways.” (See Xebec, supra, 12 Cal.App.4th at
p. 569.) She cannot assert the attorney-client privilege in discovery to
prevent Defendants from obtaining critical evidence, and then offer that
evidence in support of her claims. (Ibid.)     
Ultimately, it remains undisputed that the
policy limit was $250,000 and that Plaintiff identified no facts demonstrating
the other driver’s ability to pay beyond that amount. (See Lona v. Citibank,
N.A. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 89, 110 [defendant may obtain summary judgment
based on plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses, deposition
testimony, or admissions showing that plaintiff has not discovered anything
supporting the essential elements of the claim].)
Without the essential elements of
causation and damages, Plaintiff’s claims fail as a matter of law. This
independently warrants summary judgment of the claims. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED. 
 
 