 Case Number:  23STCV01764    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32      CORNELIA ROSALES, et    al.,                         Plaintiffs,             v.   VERMONT CITY LIGHTS LP,                             Defendant.           Case No.:  23STCV01764   Hearing Date:  October 9, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: defendant’s motion to compel depositions                   BACKGROUND             On January 17, 2023, Plaintiffs  Cornelia Rosales, Jose Juventino Rosales, and Jose Alfredo Rosales filed this  landlord-tenant action against Defendant Vermont City Lights LP alleging  uninhabitable conditions.              On August 7, 2024, the Court granted  Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions, ordering Plaintiffs to  appear for deposition within 40 days. The notice of ruling also states that the  Court ordered the depositions to take place in person, as specified in the  notices of deposition.             On September 6, 2024, Defendant  filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions for failure to  comply with the Court’s order. Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition.    LEGAL STANDARD “If, after service of a deposition notice,  a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection under  Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination . . . or  to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or  tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice  may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and  the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition  notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).) DISCUSSION The extensive history of Defendant’s  attempts to ascertain Plaintiffs’ availability leading up to the first motion  to compel has been summarized in the Court’s initial order. The Court will not  repeat that history herein, but it should be noted that Defendant attempted  numerous times to ascertain Plaintiffs’ availability, and Plaintiff ignored  most of the communications and then proposed an unreasonable date/time for the  depositions.  After the Court granted Defendant’s  motion, Defendant once again began inquiring as to Plaintiffs’ availability.  (McPhillips Decl., Ex. D.) Plaintiffs initially offered Wednesdays at noon via  Zoom. (Id., Ex. E.) Defendant responded that the Court ordered the  depositions to be in person and asked for dates for in-person depositions. (Id.,  Ex. F.) Plaintiff then proposed October 29, 2024 at 11am. (Id., Ex. G.)  Defendant responded that a single half-day was insufficient to depose all three  Plaintiffs and noted that the proposed date was past the discovery cutoff. (Id.,  Ex. H.) Defendant also asked for verification that the proposed date was for an  in-person deposition. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs then offered September 16, 2024  at 11am for an in-person deposition. (Id., Ex. I.) Defendant responded,  again taking issue with the offer of a single half-day to depose all three  Plaintiffs. (Id., Ex. J.)  This demonstrates that Plaintiffs have not  been forthcoming with their availability and are essentially evading their  depositions. Offering a single date with insufficient time to depose all three  Plaintiffs does not constitute good faith cooperation in the discovery process.  Plaintiffs chose to file this lawsuit and cannot avoid the associated discovery  obligations. Defendant is entitled to depose each Plaintiff for up to seven  hours, and may take that deposition in person at a location “either within 75 miles  of the deponent’s residence, or within the county where the action is pending  and within 150 miles of the deponent’s residence.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§  2025.250(a), 2025.290(a).)  Sanctions are warranted as Plaintiffs have  “[f]ail[ed] to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (See  Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(d).) Defendant requests the imposition of $1,340  against Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Mtn. 2:11-13; McPhillips Decl. ¶ 13.) The Court  finds this reasonable.  CONCLUSION             Defendant’s motion to compel  depositions is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are to appear for their depositions in  person at defense counsel’s office on __________________ at 9:30 a.m. The Court  sanctions Plaintiffs’ counsel in the amount of $1,340, to be paid within 30  days of this order.  


 
CORNELIA ROSALES, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
VERMONT CITY LIGHTS LP,

                        Defendant.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV01764
  Hearing Date:  October 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to set expert fees
  and to extend time for expert discovery  




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On January 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Cornelia Rosales, Jose Juventino Rosales, and Jose Alfredo Rosales filed this
landlord-tenant action against Defendant Vermont City Lights LP alleging
uninhabitable conditions. 

            On July 12, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to preclude improperly designated experts, to set the fees of experts,
and to extend the time for expert discovery. On August 7, 2024, the Court
granted the motion to strike nine of Plaintiffs’ experts as improperly
designated but denied the motion to set the fees of the remaining five experts
because the motion had not been served to the experts as required by code. However,
the Court noted that the fees appeared to be excessive on their face. Lastly,
the Court denied Defendant’s request to extend the time for expert discovery
because no argument had been made on that point. 

            On September 6, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant motion to set the expert fees of Jose Luis Barrera, Dr. James
Pearl, Dr. Vikram Singh, Nestor Rocha, and Monica Martinez. The proof of
service indicates that the experts were served by mail. Plaintiffs have not
filed an opposition.     

LEGAL STANDARD

“If a party desiring to take the
deposition of an expert witness under this article deems that the hourly or
daily fee of that expert for providing deposition testimony is unreasonable,
that party may move for an order setting the compensation of that expert.
Notice of this motion shall also be given to the expert.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.470(a).) The expert or the party designating the expert shall provide the
following information: (1) proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually
charged and received by that expert for similar services provided outside the
subject litigation; (2) the total number of times the presently demanded fee
has ever been charged and received by that expert; and (3) the frequency and
regularity with which the presently demanded fee has been charged and received
by that expert within the two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion.
(Id., § 2034.470(c), (d).) 

DISCUSSION

            Plaintiff has not responded to the
motion nor presented any of the information required to justify the expert
fees. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470(c), (d).) The Court finds that the fees
are excessive. The Court sets the following fees: 

·       Luis Barrera
(property inspector): $50/hr. 

·       Nestor Rocha (pest
control specialist): $50/hr.

·       Monica Martinez
(social worker): $50/hr.

·       James Pearle,
M.D.: $500/hr.

·       Vikram Singh,
M.D.: $500/hr.

 

 

 

CONCLUSION

            Defendant’s motion to set expert
fees is GRANTED in the amounts listed above. Defendant’s request to continue
expert discovery is GRANTED.     

 


 
CORNELIA ROSALES, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
VERMONT CITY LIGHTS LP,

                        Defendant.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV01764
  Hearing Date:  October 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to continue trial




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On January 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Cornelia Rosales, Jose Juventino Rosales, and Jose Alfredo Rosales filed this
landlord-tenant action against Defendant Vermont City Lights LP alleging
uninhabitable conditions. 

            On September 6, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant motion to continue trial. Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition. 

LEGAL STANDARD

“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1332(a).) “The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring the continuance.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1332(c).)
One ground for a continuance is “[a] party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(c)(6).)

 

 

DISCUSSION

            Defendant requests a continuance on
the grounds that Plaintiffs have stonewalled efforts to obtain their
depositions. As noted in the concurrent motion to compel deposition, Plaintiffs
have been less than forthcoming with their availability for deposition. This
constitutes an “excused inability to obtain essential testimony.” (See Cal.
Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1332(c)(6).) With trial approaching on November 12, 2024,
a continuance is warranted to allow Defendant to complete discovery. 

CONCLUSION

            Defendant’s motion to continue trial
is GRANTED. The trial currently set for November 12, 2024 is advanced to this
date and continued to __________________, and FSC is set for
____________________.

 