  Case Number:  23STCV02320    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALEX CONTRERAS 
 
        
  vs.
 
ENTRON HOLDING,
  INC. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02320  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: April 25, 2024



 
Sunlight’s
motion to quash is GRANTED. 
 
On 2/20/2023,
Plaintiff Alex Contreras (Plaintiff) filed suit against Entron Holding, Inc.,
All in Federal Credit Union, and American Contractors, Indemnity Company,
alleging: (1) violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act; (2) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200; (3) failure of consideration; (4)
violation of the Song-Beverly Act; (5) breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability; (6) breach of implied warranty of fitness; and (7) violation
of Business and Professions Code section 7071.5. 
 
            On
2/29/2024, Non-Party Sunlight Financial, LLC (Sunlight) moved to quash the
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records (the Subpoena) served by
Plaintiff. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Sunlight
seeks to quash the Subpoena on the grounds that: (1) it was not properly served
as a non-California resident; (2) the Subpoena requests personal information of
consumers without providing proper notice to consumers; and (3) the Subpoena
seeks electronically-stored information that is not reasonably accessible
because of undue burden and expense.
 
            After
review the Court agrees.
 
            As
to the first contention, The California Code of Civil Procedure provides that a
California subpoena can be served on any deponent “who is a resident of
California at the time of service.” (CCP. § 2020.220 (emphasis added).)
Per Contreras’ proof of service of the Subpoena, Sunlight was served on January
9, 2024, at 2710 Gateway Oaks Dr. Ste. 150 N, Sacramento, CA 95833-3502. (Hider
Decl., Exh. B.) However, Sunlight is a resident of Delaware and North Carolina,
not California. (Carpenter Decl. ¶ 2.) As a non-California resident, it was
improper to serve Sunlight in California with a California subpoena. 
 
Most states,
including California, Delaware, and North Carolina, have adopted a version of
the Uniform Interstate Depositions and Discovery Act (UIDDA). The UIDDA
provides the proper procedure for obtaining discovery from a resident of a
state other than the state where the action is pending.
 
Here, as a
resident of North Carolina and Delaware, Contreras could have served Sunlight
with a subpoena domesticated in either state. (See N.C.G.S. § 1F-3
(North Carolina’s adoption of the UIDDA, providing that an out of state
subpoena must be submitted to the clerk of the county in which discovery is
sought, so that a North Carolina subpoena can be issued and served); 10 Del.
Code § 4311 (same for Delaware).) 
 
California
courts have held that subpoena jurisdiction does not reach out-of-state
documents held by an out-of-state witness. (See Boal v. Price
Waterhouse & Co. (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 806, 810 (finding that, “if a
subpoena is served on a non-party, and requires the personal appearance of a
custodian not resident in California, other means must be resorted to secure
the documents”); John Deere Co. v. Cone (!962) 239 S.C. 597, 604
(finding a subpoena ineffectual “because the courts of this state are without jurisdiction
over persons or property outside of its territory”). 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff cites Corporations Code section 2110 to argue that
delivery of process against a foreign corporation to a designated corporate
agent shall constitute valid service on the corporation. However, the
Corporations Code does not define process, and the case law citing section 2110
relates to service of summons, not a subpoena. 
 
Because the
subpoena was not properly served on Sunlight, a non-resident of California, the
Court agrees it must be quashed. However, the Court still addresses the two
additional arguments raised by Sunlight in anticipation of future motion
practice. 
 
As to the
contention that the requisite notice was not provided, the Subpoena seeks “All
records RELATED to complaints YOU have received about Zenernet LLC doing
business as Zenernet LLC from February 6, 2018 to present.” (Hider Decl., Ex.
A, p. 3, ¶ 8.) These records consist of complaints made by other consumers, and
thus constitute personal records under Section 1985.3(a)(1). Section 1985.3
requires that a party issuing a Subpoena for the production of personal records
first serves a notice on the consumer. (CCP. § 1985.3(b).) The Subpoena here
contains no such notice (See Hider Decl., Ex. A), and failure to comply
with Section 1985.3 “shall be sufficient basis for the witness to refuse to
produce the personal records sought by a subpoena duces tecum.” (CCP. §
1985.3(k).)
 
Finally, as
to the third contention, Sunlight argues that in order to comply with the
Subpoena, it would be required to: “(i) run large-scale searches in these
databases of every current and former employee of Sunlight to identify email
communications or records related to Contreras’s residential solar panel
system; (ii) host the document collections on a third-party e-discovery
platform; and (iii) engage outside counsel to manually review the documents to
evaluate whether each is responsive, privileged, or otherwise require
redactions. Id. ¶ 6.)” (Motion, 5: 24-28.) Sunlight indicates that Plaintiff has
not limited custodians, proposed any search terms, or otherwise proposed ways
to reduce the burden on Sunlight. In order to produce all of the records sought
in the Subpoena, Sunlight and its counsel would be required to develop search
terms to search these databases, and then manually review each document for
responsiveness, and for any necessary redactions.
 
After review,
the Court agrees that the subpoena, as written, is overly broad and would be
unduly burdensome in its existing form. However, the Court does not conclude
that the requests are so irreparably overbroad and burdensome that it would be
impossible to tailor the requests to an appropriate scope. Accordingly, should
Plaintiff intend to re-serve a subpoena Sunlight, Plaintiff is directed to
narrow its scope and adequately develop and define search terms. The Court
urges the parties to meet and confer. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Sunlight’s motion to quash is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
             
 
 
 