Defendant J.K. Residential Services, Inc. seeks to quash service of summons, contending that Plaintiffs failed to serve it properly.  Its agent for service of process, Ritesh Desai, states that he is the only person authorized to accept service of process.The proof of service at issue indicates substituted service upon “John Doe receptionist Male Hispanic 31-35 years old; 215 lbs.; black hair; brown eyes” at 2016 Riverside Dr. Los Angeles, CA 90039, which Desai states is his address as well as the business address.  A defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground the Court lacks personal jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).)  “Although the defendant is the moving party, the plaintiff must carry the initial burden of demonstrating facts by a preponderance of evidence justifying the exercise of jurisdiction in California.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.) Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20(a) states that “[i]n lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.”Here, Plaintiffs have adequately shown that service was rendered at Defendant’s business address upon a receptionist and then the subject papers were mailed to the same place.  Indeed, “substitute service on entity defendants may be effected by leaving summons with secretaries, receptionists, doorkeepers, or other persons ‘apparently in charge’ of the premises [ ]. They need not be authorized to accept summons on defendant's behalf.”  (Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Guide 2023) Ch. 4-D.)  Additionally, Defendant ultimately obtained notice of this action.Because service was proper, the Motion to Quash is denied.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 