 Case Number:  24STCV17052    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Antonio Lopez Castillo,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV17052




 
Vs.
 
 


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Alicante Stone, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Costco Wholesale
Corporation
Responding Party: Plaintiff Antonio Lopez Castillo
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Antonio
Lopez Castillo filed a complaint against Defendants Alicante Stone, Inc., et
al., asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; (2) products liability –
failure to warn; (3) products liability – design defect; (4) fraudulent
concealment; and (5) breach of implied warranties. Plaintiff alleges he has
suffered personal injury while working as cutter,
fabricator, and installer of the named Defendants’ stone products.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation demurs
to the fourth cause of action for fraud by concealment on the ground that
Plaintiff has failed to plead facts with the requisite specificity. 
“[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure
or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant ‘was under a
legal duty to disclose them.’” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.) Nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud when: (1) there is a fiduciary
relationship between the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of
material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (See Los Angeles
Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803,
831.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Costco sells
custom, artificial stone countertops, and “officers
of Costco, including Walter C. Jelinek (Chief Executive Officer), John Sullivan
(Secretary) and Richard A. Galanti (Chief Financial Officer) were aware of the
silicosis hazard of artificial stone and ratified the company’s concealment of
those hazards to stone countertop fabricators.” Plaintiff alleges Defendants
had a duty to disclose the hazards because Defendants had exclusive knowledge
of the hazards and because Defendants made partial representations and
suppressed material facts. The Court must treat these allegations as true on
demurrer. This is sufficient to allege fraudulent concealment. 
The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
B. Motion to
Strike
Defendant
moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages and to strike the
allegations referencing “other silica-containing stone products to be
identified during the course of discovery.” As Plaintiff has stated a claim for
fraud, Plaintiff has alleged entitlement to punitive damages. The Court
declines to strike the remaining allegations. Plaintiff may allege general
statements in the complaint.
The
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 
 