  Case Number:  24STCV13222    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Felipe Chavez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV13222




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
SoCal Deliveries LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Moving Party: Defendant SoCal Deliveries LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Felipe Chavez
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED. 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
 On
June 21, 2024, Plaintiff Felipe Chavez filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendant SoCal Deliveries LLC asserting causes of action for
Labor Code violations.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
and Applicable Law
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration agreement executed by Plaintiff on June 16, 2022.
(Decl. Abbott-Whitley, Exh. 1.) The agreement provides, “that any covered claim … shall be submitted to individual binding
arbitration.” (Id.) “Covered
Claims” are defined as “all past, current, and future grievances, disputes,
claims, issues, or causes of action … under applicable federal, state or local
laws, arising out of or relating to” Plaintiff’s “application, hiring, hours
worked, services provided, and/or employment with [SoCal] or the termination
thereof,” including “issues regarding benefits, bonuses, [and] wages.” (Id.) It
expressly provides: “The Employee and the Company each specifically
acknowledges and agrees that all claims involving minimum wages, overtime,
unpaid wages, expense reimbursement, wage statements, and claims involving meal
and rest breaks shall be subject to arbitration under this Agreement.” (Id.)
The agreement states that it is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability
 
Plaintiff
asserts that the motion should be denied because Plaintiff was employed as an
exempt transportation worker under the FAA. Section 1 of the FAA exempts
“seamen, railroad employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign
or interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. §1.) This “transportation worker” exemption
applies to any class of workers that is “actively engaged in the transportation
of goods across borders via the channels of foreign or interstate commerce.” (Southwest
Airlines Co. v. Saxon, 596 U.S. 450, 457-458 (2022).) Courts have held that
this applies to last-mile delivery drivers who transport packages originating
outside the state of delivery, even if the driver does not cross state lines. (See
e.g. Nieto v. Fresno Beverage Co. Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 274, 284.)
Plaintiff declares that his duties included picking up packages from an Amazon
warehouse in Santa Clarita and delivering them to customers in the San Fernando
Valley. He presents a screenshot of a package that Plaintiff delivered that
purportedly originated from Lexington, KS.
In
reply, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has failed to present sufficient
evidence showing he was engaged in interstate commerce. Defendant represents
that all packages delivered by Plaintiff were picked up in California and
delivered locally.
The
Court finds that Plaintiff falls within the transportation worker exemption.
Plaintiff was a delivery driver who was actively engaged in transporting goods
originating from out of state. 
Defendant’s
reliance on Bissonnette v. Le Page Bakeries Park St., LLC, (2024) 601
U.S. 246, is misplaced. The sole issue there was whether a transportation
worker needed to work in the transportation industry to fall within the FAA
exemption. The Supreme Court found that the worker did not have to work in the
transportation industry. The Court reaffirmed that a transportation worker is
one who is actively engaged in the transportation of goods via foreign or
interstate commerce. (Bissonnette, 601 U.S. at 256.) Bissonnette
does not invalidate the cases, including Nieto, finding that last-mile delivery
drivers are part of the “continuous journey” of interstate commerce. (Nieto,
33 Cal.App.5th at 284.)
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.


 