 Case Number:  21STCV46345    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46345




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Breanna Sprunger 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Oliver Goodman-Waters 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 2, 2024, this case was set for trial. There were
no appearances by Plaintiff’s counsel. As a result, the Court dismissed
Plaintiff Breanna Sprunger’s (“Plaintiff”) complaint without prejudice pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 581(b)(5), following an oral request to
dismiss by Defendant. (Min. Order, 4/2/24.)  
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for
reconsideration of the Court’s dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section
1008, which was denied on June 13, 2024. (Min. Order, 6/13/24.) 
 
On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion
to set aside the dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). Defendant
Oliver Goodman-Waters (“Defendant”) opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
However, mandatory relief is only available when a party fails to oppose a
dismissal motion (“which are procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.)
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)  
 
To establish excusable neglect, “the proffered evidence
must show that the attorney’s error was excusable. [Citation omitted.] Neglect
is excusable only if a reasonably prudent person in similar circumstances might
have made the same error. [Citations omitted.] Relevant factors in addressing
counsel error include: ‘(1) the nature of the mistake or neglect; and (2)
whether counsel was otherwise diligent in investigating and pursuing the
claim.’ [Citation omitted.] ‘Conduct falling below the professional standard of
care, such as failure to timely object or to properly advance an argument, is
not therefore excusable.’ [Citation omitted.] ‘To hold otherwise would be to
eliminate the express statutory requirement of excusability and effectively
eviscerate the concept of attorney malpractice.’ [Citation omitted.]” (Huh
v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1423 [holding that counsel who was
overwhelmed and disorganized and misfiled a summary judgment motion and did not
calendar the hearing date was not excusable neglect]; see also Ambrose v.
Michelin North America, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1354-55 [“A
reasonably prudent person just does not fail to include an essential request
for continuance and an accompanying affidavit in an opposition to a summary
judgment motion. As in Garcia, Ambrose does not argue that the mistake
was caused by a glitch in office machinery or an error by clerical staff.
Rather, Ambrose points to the ‘stresses of a busy law practice,’ the ‘hurry to
meet the deadline,’ and ‘several concurrent obligations due to other pending
litigation.’”].) “The distinction in the statute noted by the Supreme Court’s
use of the term ‘reasonably prudent person’ describes the obvious intent of the
Legislature to mandate relief only from mistakes fairly imputable to the
client, i.e., mistakes anyone could have made. The Legislature did not intend
to eliminate attorney malpractice claims by providing an opportunity to correct
all the professional mistakes an attorney might make in the court of litigating
a case.” (Generale Bank Nederland v. Eyes of the Beholder Ltd. (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1384, 1400.)¿ 
¿ 
The discretion of the Court “is not a capricious or
arbitrary discretion, but an impartial discretion, guided and controlled in its
exercise by fixed legal principles. It is not a mental discretion, to be
exercised ex gratia, but a legal discretion, to be exercised in conformity with
the spirit of the law and in a manner to subserve and not to impede or defeat
the ends of substantial justice.” (Carroll v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc.
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 892, 898 [citation and quotations omitted].) “The policy that
favors trying all cases and controversies upon their merits should not be
prostituted to permit the slovenly practice of law or to relieve courts of the
duty of scrutinizing carefully the affidavits or declarations filed in support
of motions for relief to ascertain whether they set forth, with adequate
particularity, grounds for relief.” (Id. at 900.)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed just within six months after
the case was dismissed; the complaint was dismissed on April 2, 2024, and this
motion was filed September 13, 2024. 
 
            Nevertheless,
under the discretionary provision of section 473(b), this motion must be made
“within a reasonable time.” “ ‘While the determination of reasonableness is
largely for the trial court, the limitation is not perfunctory. The moving
party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory excuse for his default,
and he must show diligence in making the motion after discovery of the default.’
[Citation.]” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 619, 624-25.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has not explained a reason for the delay in filing this motion
over five months after dismissal. In reply, Plaintiff argues that between the
June 2024 denial of the motion for reconsideration and September 2024,
Plaintiff retained appellate counsel to independently review the record and
file this motion. (Reply, 6-7.) Plaintiff retained counsel on August 1, 2024.
(Supp. Kowal Decl., ¶ 2.) Once the instant counsel was retained, this motion
was filed six-weeks later, as counsel was on a pre-planned vacation the first
week of August 2024, and had briefing deadlines in several other matters. (Id.)
Therefore, between the motion for reconsideration, which was filed on April 10,
2024, and this motion filed on September 13, 2024, it appears Plaintiff acted
sufficiently diligently to set aside the dismissal. 
 
Turning to the issue of excusable
neglect, here, Plaintiff offers a declaration of her counsel that was
representing her on the day of the dismissal. The Declaration of Antonio
Castillo III states that on April 2, 2024, he traveled to this courthouse to appear
for trial, and planned to arrive by 8:15 a.m., according to his GPS. (Castillo
Decl., ¶ 7.) He declares that traffic worsened on the 101, and he entered the
parking lot at 8:29 a.m. (Id., Exh. 20.) As a result, he entered the
courtroom before 8:40 a.m. (Id.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues the
circumstances here show that Plaintiff intended to appear for trial, as counsel
arrived at the courthouse as quickly as possible, and that prior counsel had
previously appeared on time for trial on February 15, 2024, March 5, 2024, and
March 19, 2024, but then unilaterally withdrew shortly before trial. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently demonstrated excusable neglect. Furthermore, although Defendant
argues it will suffer some prejudice to make his trial attorneys and experts
prepared for trial again, the Court finds the policy favoring a trial on the
merits, outweighs this concern. (See Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting
Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 256.) As a result, the motion to set aside
dismissal is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal
entered on April 2, 2024.  
 
The Court sets the case for trial on December 3, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
All trial counsel are ordered to appear personally in Department 32 at
8:30 a.m. sharp, with physical copies of the trial and exhibit binders. If
counsel are late or otherwise fail to appear, the case may be dismissed.
Counsel are reminded that traffic in Los Angeles can be unpredictable, and they
must budget additional time in order to be in compliance with all court orders.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.