 Case Number:  22STCV22956    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative
ruling to determine if a resolution may be reached.  If the parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to
submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date and time of the hearing,
counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the identity of the party
submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email indicating the parties are
submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative
ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the
subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV22956




MOTIONS


Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Defendants/Cross-Complainants, William N. Solis Tello dba
  WNS Trucking, and Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION 
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants, William N. Solis Tello dba WNS
Trucking, and Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello (“Defendants”) move to compel Los
Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk (“County Clerk”) and California
Department of Public Health’s (“Dept. of Public Health”) compliance with a
subpoena seeking confidential marriage certificates for Plaintiffs Kanwardeep
Singh and Rochelle Yullin Arias (“Plaintiffs”).
   
ANALYSIS 
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the
action may obtain discovery by deposition subpoena for production of business
records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, subdivision (a), the court may make an order to direct
compliance with a records subpoena. California statutes and court rules
governing subpoenas and sanctions apply to the dispute. (Code of Civ. Proc.
§¿2029.500.) 
 
“The county clerk shall maintain confidential marriage certificates
filed pursuant to Section 506 as permanent records which shall not be open to
public inspection except upon order of the court issued upon a showing of good
cause. The confidential marriage license is a confidential record and not open
to public inspection without an order from the court.” (Family Code § 511.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff Rochelle Yullin
Arias claims loss of consortium. (Mot., 1:22-23.) In response to Defendant’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, seeking proof of marriage, Plaintiff
produced a photograph of what purports to be a confidential marriage license
and certificate. (Ip Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants sent a written request to the
County Clerk requesting marriage licenses, certificates, and documents relating
to Plaintiffs. (Ip Decl., ¶ 5.) On June 26, 2024, the County Clerk indicated
that a license of confidential marriage for the Plaintiffs was on file with the
County Clerk and that relevant records may be on file with the Department of
Public Health, but that a court order is needed to produce the marriage
certificate. (Ip Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. D.) On July 25, 2024, Defendants served subpoenas
on the non-parties County Clerk and the Department of Public Health for
production of marriage licenses, certificates, and documents relating to
Plaintiffs. (Ip Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. E.) Defendants now move for a court order compelling
the non-party deponents to produce the documents. 
 
            Defendants do not explain why they
issued subpoenas for records that require a court order. In any event, they did
not personally serve the instant motion on the non-party deponents. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1346 [“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a
motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of
a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.”].) 
 
            Nonetheless, Plaintiffs do not
oppose a motion to compel the Los Angeles County Registrar/ County Clerk and
California Department of Public Health to produce any confidential marriage
certificate. Accordingly, the Court construes this motion as a motion for a
court order to provide any confidential marriage certificate between Singh and
Arias pursuant to Family Code sections 506 and 511. In light of Plaintiffs’
non-opposition, and based on the information provided, the Court finds good
cause.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, the Los Angeles County
Clerk is ordered to provide any confidential marriage certificates filed
pursuant to Section 506 between Kanwardeep Singh and Rochelle Yullin Arias to
counsel for Defendant William N. Solis Tello. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.   