 Case Number:  23STCV30348    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  32  
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV30348




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Changing Venue




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant FedEx Freight, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Lucas Gaspar Juan



 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action
based on an auto accident that occurred in New Mexico on December 24, 2022. On
December 13, 2023, plaintiff Lucas Gaspar Juan (Plaintiff) filed this action
against defendants American Roadlines LLC (American Roadlines), Rubal Singh
(Singh), and Does 1 through 25, alleging causes of action for negligence,
negligent entrustment, and negligent hiring. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an amendment to the complaint, substituting FedEx Freight, Inc. (FedEx) for Doe
1.
 
On August 29, 2024, FedEx moved for
change of venue. On October 9, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On October 9,
2024, FedEx replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 395(a), in an action for
personal injuries, the “superior court in either the county where the injury
occurs or the injury causing death occurs or the county where the defendants,
or some of them reside at the commencement of the action, is a proper court for
the trial of the action.”
 
“Venue is determined based on the complaint on file at the time the
motion to change venue is made. [Citations.]” (Dow AgroSciences, LLC v.
Superior Court (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1067, 1076.)¿¿ 
 
“[I]f an action or proceeding is
commenced in a court having jurisdiction of the subject matter thereof, other
than the court designated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under this
title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court where commenced,
unless the defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs, or moves to
strike, or, at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or moving to
strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the complaint, files
with the clerk, a notice of motion for an order transferring the action or
proceeding to the proper court, together with proof of service, upon the
adverse party, of a copy of those papers. Upon the hearing of the motion the
court shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was not commenced in
the proper court, order the action or proceeding transferred to the proper
court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b, subd. (a).)
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 397 provides, in pertinent part, as
follows: 
 
“The court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following
cases: 
(a) When the court designated in the complaint is not the proper
court.
(b) When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be
had therein.
(c) When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change.
(d) When from any cause there is no judge of the court qualified to
act.” 
 
“If a plaintiff has failed to heed
the venue rules above, and the defendant makes timely objection, the court must order the action transferred to any ‘proper’
county requested by defendant. (This is true even if grounds exist for
retransferring the action back to the county where filed, on the grounds of
‘convenience of witnesses’ ...) [Citation.]” (Cholakian & Assocs. v.
Superior Ct. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 361, 373, italics in original.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            FedEx
moves for change of venue on the grounds that Defendants American Roadlines and
Singh are both residents of Fresno County, and because FedEx is an Arkansas
corporation with its principal place of business in Tennessee without a
corporate office in California. FedEx contends the complaint indisputably sets
forth that American Roadlines and Singh both reside in Fresno County, and this
action should have either been filed in New Mexico where the accident occurred
or in Fresno County. FedEx contends that even if Plaintiff later attempts to
file a motion to change venue based upon convenience of witnesses, this case
must be transferred in the meantime. FedEx also contends that any such motion
would be questionable given the allegations of negligent entrustment and hiring
that may have occurred in Fresno County.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends
he expressly reserved his right to file a motion for change of venue if the
Court grants FedEx’s motion here. Plaintiff contends American Roadlines and
Singh did not oppose venue in Los Angeles County, so he is not sure why FedEx
is now attempting to change the venue after the parties have been litigating
this matter for six months. Plaintiff also contends nearly all of the witnesses
reside in Los Angeles, including all of Plaintiff’s treating doctors, except
for the initial hospital visit in New Mexico. Plaintiff contends he would be
highly prejudiced to have to expend tremendous resources to try his case in
Fresno County, California, Cibola County, New Mexico, or Shelby County, Tennessee.
Plaintiff also contends FedEx has 109 offices just in the City of Los Angeles.
Plaintiff otherwise contends that this motion is just an attempt to delay this
matter, as it will be eventually brought back to Los Angeles County where
nearly all of the witnesses reside, include counsel for American Roadlines and
Singh.
 
            Plaintiff’s opposition does not
demonstrate that the Los Angeles Superior Court is the proper court. The
complaint alleges that American Roadlines and Singh reside in Fresno County.
(Compl., ¶¶ 3-4.) The complaint also alleges that the underlying accident
occurred in New Mexico. (Compl., ¶ 1.) FedEx presented evidence that its
principal place of business is in Tennessee. (Motion, Ex. 1.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS the motion. Prior to the hearing on this motion, the parties must advise
the Court whether they have stipulated to the proper court. “Absent such
stipulation, it must be transferred to the proper court in a proper county
designated by the defendant.” (Cubic Corp. v. Superior Court (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 622, 625.) Accordingly, absent stipulation, Defendant FedEx shall
advise the Court of the county designated by Defendant.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS the motion.
 
Defendant shall provide notice and file a proof of service of such.