  Case Number:  22BBCV00980    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  NEB Case No.: 22BBCV00980 Hearing Date: December 27, 2024 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR A NEW TRIALBACKGROUNDA. AllegationsPlaintiff John Doe (in pro per, Plaintiff) alleges that on November 15, 2021, he went to the Bank of America branch at 5025 Lankershim Blvd. in North Hollywood. He alleges that while he was waiting in line at the bank, he began feeling Covid-like symptoms. Plaintiff alleges that he informed the bank manager of his health concerns, and the bank manager called the paramedics upon Plaintiff’s insistence. Plaintiff alleges that while he was waiting for the paramedics, he wanted to finish a transaction at the bank; however, when it was his turn, 2 paramedics from Defendant Los Angeles Fire Department appeared and made him go outside immediately, even though Plaintiff alleges that he needed only a moment to finish his bank transaction. Plaintiff alleges that he told the paramedics about his concern about his ID and bank card inside the bank, the paramedics informed him that his bank transaction had been declined and that they had his cards, and they told him they would restrain him if heresisted. Plaintiff alleges that he requested to be taken to USC Verdugo Hills Hospital, but they took him to Sherman Oaks Hospital instead. Plaintiff alleges that the paramedics tried to give him medication, but he refused to take any medication that he was allergic to or that he was not given information about. Plaintiff alleges that paramedics/Defendants Jeffrey Blake and August Weidman each injected him with Versed without his consent. Plaintiff alleges that on November 16, 2022, he awoke at Defendant Sherman Oaks Hospital and was diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis, but it had failed to inform him that he had suffered a form of heart attack during his stay.The complaint, filed November 16, 2022, alleges causes of action in the caption for: (1) negligence; (2) violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983; (3) medical battery; (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (6) libel; (7) negligent misrepresentation; and (8) intentional misrepresentation. The body of the complaint does not list these causes of action out separately.B. Relevant BackgroundOn January 26, 2024, Defendants City of Los Angeles, erroneously and additionally named as Los Angeles Fire Department (City) and August Weidemen (Mr. Weidman) filed a demurrer to the complaint.On February 27, 2024 at 12:02 a.m., Plaintiff filed the first amended complaint (FAC). However, in order to be timely, Plaintiff was required to file the FAC by February 26, 2024, which would have been the due date for his opposition brief to the demurrer. Thus, the Court considered the initially filed complaint to be the operative complaint and struck the filing of the FAC.On March 8, 2024, the Court ruled on City and Mr. Weidemen’s demurrer to the initial complaint and sustained the demurer without leave to amend. The Court then dismissed City and Mr. Weideman as defendants.On September 6, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to set aside and vacate the Court’s March 8, 2024 order.C. Motion on CalendarOn November 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for a new trial following the Court’s March 8 2024 order.No opposition was filed.LEGAL STANDARDA new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or referee. (Code Civ. Proc., § 656.) Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 657, a party can seek a new trial on the grounds of: (1) irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial; (2) misconduct of the jury; (3) accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against; (4) newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial; (5) excessive or inadequate damages; (6) insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law; and (7) error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.¿A motion for a new trial may be brought after the trial court sustains a demurrer without leave to amend. (Carney v. Simmonds (1957) 49 Cal.2d 84, 91 [holding that motions for new trial may be heard where only issues of law are determined, such as a sustained demurrer without leave to amend, as well as where issues of fact and law are determined].)DISCUSSIONFollowing this Court’s March 8, 2024 order sustaining the demurrer of Defendants City and Mr. Weideman without leave to amend, Plaintiff now moves for a new trial on the following grounds: (1) Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which Plaintiff was prevented from having a fair hearing, (2) Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence would not have guarded against, (3) Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the subject hearing, (4) The decision of the Court is against law, (5) Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the decision, (6) Error in law occurring at the hearing and objected to by the moving party.TimelinessThe Court finds that the instant motion is untimely.A party intending to move for a new trial must file with the clerk and serve upon each adverse party a notice of his intention to move for a new trial, designating the grounds upon which the motion will be made and whether the same will be made upon affidavits or the minutes of the court or both, either: (1) before the entry of judgment; or (2) within 15 days of the date of mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 664.5, or service upon him by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, or within 180 days after the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest. (Code Civ. Proc., § 659.) Within 10 days of filing the notice of intention to move for a new trial, the moving party shall serve upon all other parties and file any affidavits intended to be used upon such motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 659a.) Other parties shall have 10 days after such service within which to file and serve upon the moving party any opposing briefs and counter-affidavits. (Id.)¿It is well settled that a timely filing of the notice of intention to move for a new trial is jurisdictional, and the time cannot be extended or waived by the parties. (In re Marriage of Beilock, (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 713, 721.)On March 8, 2024, this Court rendered a decision and entered judgment sustaining Defendant City and Mr. Weideman’s demurrer without leave to amend. On March 15, 2024, Counsel for City and Mr. Weideman provided Plaintiff with notice of the Court’s ruling on March 8, 2024. Counsel for City and Mr. Weideman provided Plaintiff with notice of the Court’s ruling both by Mail to Plaintiff’s address on file at the time, and to Plaintiff’s email addresses. This constitutes “written notice of entry of judgment” pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 659, subdivision (a)(2). (See Nat'l Advert. Co. v. City of Rohnert Park (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 614, 618 [“any notice in writing which will convey to a losing party that judgment has been entered is sufficient.”].)Thus, Plaintiff had 15 days from March 15, 2024 to file his first Notice of Intent to Move for New Trial, given that the two-day extension applied for electronic service does not apply to extend the time for filing a notice of intention to move for new trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B)(i).) The last date Plaintiff was able to file his first Notice of Intent would have been March 30, 2024, but because March 30, 2024 fell on a weekend, the last date for Plaintiff to file was April 1, 2024. (Code Civ Proc., § 659(a)(2).) However, Plaintiff filed his first Notice of Intent on April 2, 2024, making the instant motion untimely, stripping the Court of authority to hear it. (In re Marriage of Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468 [time limits delineated in Code Civ. Proc., § 659 “are jurisdictional”].)CONCLUSION AND ORDERPlaintiff’s motion for a new trial is denied.Moving party shall provide notice of this order.