 Case Number:  22BBCV02852    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  NEB Case No.: 23BBCV02852 Hearing Date: December 27, 2024 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTSBACKGROUNDA. AllegationsPlaintiffs Xavier De Nauw and Danielle Johnigan-De Nauw are the parents of Plaintiff Jane Doe, a child that attended The International School of Los Angeles/Lycée International de Los Angeles (LILA), an independent, international, school that offers both a French immersion track from preschool through 12th grade, which prepares students for the French Baccalauréat; and a separate international high school track that prepares students for the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme in grades 11–12. (Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs Xavier De Nauw and Danielle Johnigan-De Nauw claim that LILA subjected their child Jane Doe to “intentional discrimination,” has a “policy of engaging in race-based discriminatory conduct and tolerating race based discriminatory conduct by its staff and student body,” and “endorses a system of cultural messages and institutionally racist practices andpolicies against Black and bi-racial students.” (Id. ¶¶ 6, 8, 10.) The Second Amended Complaint alleges numerous events and instances to support the parents’ claims.On December 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Xavier De Nauw, Danielle Johnigan-De Nauw, and Jane Doe, a Minor, by and through her Guardian ad litem, Danielle Johnigan-De Nauw (collectively, Plaintiffs) initiated the instant action against LILA.On December 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint.On April 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative second amended complaint (SAC), alleging causes of action for (1) Discrimination in Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (2) Retaliation in Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (3) Breach of Contract, (4) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (6) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. The Second Amended Complaint is not at issue, endangering the 2025 Trial set in this matter.B. Motion on CalendarOn November 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel responses to their Request for Production of Documents, set two (RFPDs).On December 13, 2024, LILA filed an opposition.On December 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply.Meet and ConferPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(b)(2) a motion to compel further responses to a request for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(2).) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Id. § 2016.040.)Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel declared that she met and conferred with Defendant’s counsel and indicated the claimed issues with LILA’s responses to Plaintiffs’ RFPDs. (Dawn Trygstad Decl., ¶16.) According to Plaintiffs’ counsel, LILA’s counsel stated that LILA would need a court order before it would produce the documents. (Ibid.) Defense counsel tells a different story, stating that she sought to have the Court set a Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). Apparently, Plaintiff’s counsel informed the defendant that the Court does not hold IDC’s, and that a motion would need to be filed. (Daugherty Decl. ¶ 30.) Perhaps Plaintiff’s counsel was misinformed, or misinterpreted a phone call with court staff, but it is not true that the Court does not hold Informal Discovery Conferences. It is true that the Court does not require IDC’s before the filing of discovery motions, but the Court often holds IDC’s and would have done so if requested in this case. This case involves 296 requests for production of documents—a clearly excessive number, that has caused an unnecessary flood of paper and burdened both parties with unnecessary attorneys’ fees to resolve two simple questions of law.Thus, the meet and confer requirement were not satisfied. Nevertheless, the Court will make certain orders designed to assist with discovery.Separate StatementAccording to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(c)(2), a motion to compel further responses must always be accompanied by a separate statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response is warranted. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).) The separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by reference. (Id. at Rule 3.1345(c).)Here, on November 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Separate Statement to the instant motion adhering to the requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a).Thus, this requirement has been met.DISCUSSIONPlaintiffs move to compel further LILA’s responses to each of Plaintiffs’ requests in their RFPDs (Nos. 161- 296.) Plaintiffs state that no documents were produced in response to any of the requests. LILA also makes similar objections to each request:Defendant objects to the extent that this Request seeks documents protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege, the attorney work product doctrine, and/or any other privileges. Defendant also objects to this Request on the grounds that it seeks documents containing its confidential, proprietary, and/or privileged business information. Defendant further objects to this Request to the extent that it seeks documents protected from disclosure by the right to privacy of third-party non-litigants pursuant to Article I. Section l of the California Constitution. Subject to and without waiving said objections, Defendant responds as follows: Defendant will produce all responsive, non-privileged documents within its possession, custody, and control. Defendant will produce the remaining responsive documents once a protective order is in place.These responses raise two issues:1. Whether a privilege log will be required.2. What are the terms of the protective order necessary to protect the privacy of the parents who expressed concerns to the school regarding the conduct of the adult plaintiffs in this case.1. A privilege log will be required.“In general, when a party asserts the attorney-client privilege, that party has the burden of showing the preliminary facts necessary to support the privilege.” (Venture Law Group v. Superior Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96, 102.) “The party asserting the privilege need only present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.” (OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.) “After this burden is met, or where there is no dispute concerning the preliminary facts, the burden shifts to the party opposing the privilege to show either the claimed privilegedoes not apply, an exception exists, or there has been an express or implied waiver.” (Venture Law Group, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.102.)Here, some of the requests could theoretically include attorney-client privileged information. However, no privilege log has been provided identifying what, if any, documents that are responsive are being withheld based on attorney-client privilege/work product. LILA will be required to provide a privilege log that identifies what documents LILA is withholding and sufficient factual information to support a prima facie claim of privilege. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240(b)(1-2), [“(b) If the responding party objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or category of item, the response shall do both of the following: (1) Identify with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made. (2) Set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.”] [emphasis added].)Accordingly, LILA must provide a privilege log identifying any which documents are being withheld – if any – and enough information to establish that the withheld documents are protected by attorney-client privilege/work product. Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127 [“The precise information required for an adequate privilege log will vary from case to case based on the privileges asserted and the underlying circumstances. In general, however, a privilege log typically should provide the identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each allegedly privileged document, the document's date, a brief description of the document and its contents or subject mattersufficient to determine whether the privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.”].)It should be self-evident that once Plaintiffs commenced or threatened litigation, it became necessary for Defendants to employ or consult counsel. In a case like this, that would involve the generation of many privileged documents, making the preparation of a privilege log with respect to such documents unduly burdensome. Thus, there will be no requirement to extend the privilege log beyond the date on which Plaintiffs threatened litigation. A privilege log listing the documents dated prior to Plaintiffs’ first threat of litigation should be prepared and served within 45 days of this order.2. Privacy.Secondly, for each of Plaintiffs’ requests, LILA objects to producing the requested documents “to the extent that this Request seeks documents protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege, the attorney work product doctrine, and/or any other privileges.”The right of privacy in the California Constitution (art. I, § 1), “protects the individual's reasonable expectation of privacy against a serious invasion.” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1250 [italics in original]; See Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 [“In Hill, we established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measuresthat would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.”].)In establishing a privacy interest “the burden [is] on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies, as Hill requires.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) “Only obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Ibid.)Here, LILA argues that parents and students who submit complaints to school administrators have a reasonable expectation of privacy in both their identities and the substance of their complaints. LILA argues that schools serve as “trusted institutions where students and their families should feel safe addressing issues such as bullying, discrimination, or other misconduct.”Despite the many requests and responses, the Court has detected that the concerning documents are “parent and student complaints against Plaintiffs.” (Defense opposition at 6.) LILA has offered to produce these documents “for attorneys’ eyes only,” while the Plaintiffs insist that they be able to see the documents in their entirety. LILA has proffered legitimate reasons for concern. The students involved are minors who have not volunteered for the litigation process. Exposure of their names could result in undue publicity and stress. Likewise, the parents involved may have had a legitimate reason for communicating their concern to the school. From the school’s point of view, requiring that parent communications to the school be communicated in full would discourage parents from reporting legitimate concerns. Moreover,LILA points out that the revelation of the identity of one parent involved has already resulted in additional litigation against that parent.Yet the documents at issue here are relevant. The complaints that Plaintiffs seek are directly related to LILA’s decision to disenroll Plaintiff Jane Doe and thus is highly relevant to Plaintiffs’ alleged causes of action. Plaintiffs have a strong competing interest in viewing these complaints in preparation to fully litigate their action. (John B. v. Superior Court, (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1199 [“On occasion [a party’s] privacy interests may give way to the opponent’s right to a fair trial. Thus, courts must balance the right of civil litigants to discovery relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons subject to discovery.”].LILA contends that the parties are engaging in discussion for the implementation of a protective order, to which LILA suggested an “Attorneys’ Eyes Only” designation, with which Plaintiffs did not agree. The Court finds that restricting the information to the attorneys only is unduly restrictive. The parents involved are potential witnesses in the case as framed and the identity of witnesses should be known to both the Plaintiffs’ attorneys and the adult plaintiffs so that they can prepare for trial.The Court will give the following guidance regarding a protective order:1. Production of the parent and student communications can be delayed by 60 days from this order. During that time, Defendants may notify the parents concerned and so that they are given an opportunity to file a motion for a protective order directed to any specific privacy interests and concerns they may have regarding their communication with LILA.2. With respect to the parent and student communications, they may be shown to the adult Plaintiffs. The adult Plaintiffs must sign their acknowledgement of the terms of the protective order, agreeing that the documents may be used only for purposes ofthis litigation. The protective order should set a reasonable sanction of $1,000 for any violation of the protective order. The documents should not be shown or related to the minor plaintiffs.The parties should finalize the protective order and submit it for the Court’s review.3. SanctionsWhile Plaintiffs request sanctions in the caption of the instant motion, Plaintiffs have not indicated the amount requested in its Notice of Motion, nor, in Counsel’s declaration, which must put forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040. Plaintiffs’ reply clarifies that Plaintiffs are not seeking sanctions, and that the caption of the instant motion included a mention of sanctions in error. (Reply, page 10.) Thus, no sanctions are awarded at this time.4. Additional Discovery Orders.For purposes of future discovery in this case, the Court makes the following orders to prevent or minimize future discovery disputes.1. The parties cannot make further discovery motions in this case without first requesting an informal discovery conference in a writing to the Court.2. Plaintiffs may not issue further requests for production of documents to Defendants without leave of court.3. No deposition of any minor may occur in this case without permission of the Court.CONCLUSION AND ORDERPlaintiffs’ motion to compel is is granted as set forth above. The Court’s discovery orders as set forth in this opinion will take effect on the date this order is signed and filed.Moving party shall provide notice of this order.