  Case Number:  21STCV16429    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 19, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Baha Tan Toksoz  v. Chris
Furie, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV16429
 





















 
MOTION
TO REOPEN DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Chris Furie
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Baha
Tan Toksoz
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
 
This is a breach of contract case.  According to the complaint, Plaintiff, Baha
Tan Toksoz, reached out to Chris Furie (“Furie”), a real estate broker, for
assistance in purchasing a property located at 943 N. Laurel Avenue in Los
Angeles, California.  Instead of
assisting Plaintiff with the purchase of 943 N. Laurel Avenue, Furie proposed
the purchase of 944 N. Laurel Avenue in Los Angeles, California (“Subject
Property”).  Furie represented that he
and his company, 944 Laurel, LLC (“944 Laurel”) were in the process of
purchasing the property from its owner, Alex Goodson (“Goodson”).  On November 5, 2019, Plaintiff eventually
entered into an oral lease agreement with Furie for the Subject Property.  The oral agreement had an option to
purchase.  
 
Pursuant to the agreement, Furie directed Plaintiff to
deposit $118,500 into escrow.  The escrow
deposit would be used by Defendants to purchase the Subject Property from
Goodson.  Furie assured Plaintiff that
those funds would be returned if escrow did not close.  Plaintiff was also directed to obtain
insurance for the property and to provide proof of same to the escrow.  However, in May of 2020, Furie notified
Plaintiff that escrow had terminated and that Plaintiff’s deposit of $118,500
was forfeited as liquidated damages.  Plaintiff did not know there was a liquidated
damages clause, let alone agree to said clause, nor was he given notice that the
escrow funds were in jeopardy.  Plaintiff
was further unaware that Furie and 944 Laurel were the previous owners of the
Subject Property, that they had sold it to Goodson, that Goodson had filed a
notice of recission for the Subject Property on April 1, 2018, and that Goodson
initiated litigation against Furie and 944 N. Laurel over misrepresentations
concerning the Subject Property.  That
litigation, filed on October 24, 2019 in Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No.
19STCV38262, was ongoing for nearly the entire duration of Plaintiff’s dealings
with Furie.  Plaintiff alleges that Furie
never intended to sell the Subject Property to Plaintiff and used Plaintiff’s deposit
of $118,500 to extract themselves out of the lawsuit with Goodson.
 
On April 30, 2021, Plaintiff commenced this action against
Defendants, Furie and 944 Laurel, LLC.  
 
On August 30, 2021, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint (FAC).  The FAC alleged causes
of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Violation of Bus. & Prof.
Code § 17200, (5) Fraud, (6) Misrepresentation, (7) Negligence, (8) Conversion,
and (9) Violation of Penal Code § 496.  Defendants
filed an Answer to the FAC on October 12, 2021.
 
On November 2, 2023, Defendants filed a non-statutory motion
for judgment on the pleadings to the third and ninth causes of action in the
FAC.  On December 1, 2023, the court
granted the motion as to the third cause of action and denied the motion as to
the ninth cause of action.  Leave to
amend was granted.
 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended
Complaint (SAC).  The SAC asserted the
same causes of action as the TAC. 
Defendants demurred to the SAC.  
 
On April 4, 2024, prior to the hearing for the demurrer, Plaintiff
filed the Third Amended Complaint (TAC). 
The TAC, which is the operative pleading, asserts the third cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty against Defendant Furie only.  Defendants filed an Answer to the TAC on April
26, 2024.
 
Background for Motion to Reopen Discovery 
 
Trial was initially scheduled for December 5, 2022.  
 
On October 27, 2022, the court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application to continue the trial date and all related motion and discovery
dates.  Trial was continued to July 24,
2023.  All related trial dates were reset
accordingly.
 
On June 7, 2023, the court continued the jury trial to
August 7, 2023 on its own motion.
 
On June 23, 2023, the court continued the jury trial to December
4, 2023 pursuant to oral stipulation.
 
On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an ex parte
application to continue the trial, the final status conference, and related
motion in limine dates.  The application
was supported by the parties’ stipulation to continue the trial date.  The stipulation expressly stated that
discovery in the matter was to remain closed, with the exception of the
depositions of expert witnesses.  
 
On November 22, 2023, Department 49 granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte application.  As requested, discovery
deadlines were not continued.  The court
set a trial setting conference.  After
several continuances, the trial setting conference is now scheduled for
September 19, 2024.  
 
On June 4, 2024, Defendants issued a subpoena to take the
deposition non-party witness, David Illulian. 
The deposition was scheduled for June 26, 2024.  Plaintiff timely objected to the deposition
on the grounds that discovery had closed.
 
Defendants now seek an order to reopen discovery so that
they may take the deposition of David Illulian.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendants replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Except as otherwise provided, any party shall be entitled as
a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day,
and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day,
before the date initially set for trial of the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a).)¿ On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
The court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity and
the reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier, (3) any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party, and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)¿¿
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
            Upon
consideration of the relevant factors, the court finds good cause does not exist
to reopen discovery. 
 
The Relevant Factors 
 
1) The necessity of and reason for discovery:  Defendants
seek to depose David Illulian “to prepare their defense in this matter.”  (Motion, p. 6:26.)  Defendants do not explain who Mr. Illulian is
or his connection to the case.  Plaintiff
states Mr. Illulian is his former landlord.  Plaintiff points out that Mr. Illulian will
not offer any relevant information. 
Remarkably, Defendants recognize Plaintiff’s point, use it to argue lack
of prejudice, but fail to explain Mr. Illulian’s relevance.  Defendants skip over entirely what
information they wish to obtain from Mr. Illulian or how that information
will aid their defense.  This factor weighs
heavily against Defendants’ request. 
 
2) Diligence or Lack of Diligence; Reasons Discovery Was
Not Completed; Earlier Hearing for the Motion:  Defendants argue the pleadings
were not yet at issue until they filed an answer to the TAC on April 26,
2024.  Thereafter, on June 4, 2024,
Defendants moved to take Mr. Illulian’s deposition.  For this reason,
Defendants argue they diligently sought to depose Mr. Illulian.  
 
Defendants mischaracterize the procedural history of this
case.  Defendants answered the FAC in
2021. The parties conducted discovery throughout the pendency of this
litigation until discovery closed in December 2023.  Defendants make no showing why Mr. Illulian’s
deposition could not have been taken sooner. 
Defendants do not demonstrate diligence in completing discovery.  This factor weighs against Defendants’ request.
 
 
3) Likelihood Permitting Discovery Will Prevent The Case
From Going To Trial; Interfere With The Trial Calendar; Result In Prejudice: 
Granting the motion will not result in a continuance.  Trial has not been
set.  This factor weighs in Defendants’ favor.  
 
4) The Length Of Time Between The Prior Trial Date And
The Date Presently Set:  Trial has not been set.  A trial
setting conference is scheduled for September 19, 2024.
 
After balancing the factors and considering the equities,
the court finds good cause does not exist to reopen discovery.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The motion to reopen discovery is DENIED. 
            Plaintiff
to give notice, unless waived. 
Dated:   September 19,
2024                          




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 