  Case Number:  19STCV39485    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Walther Medina, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV39485




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Montebello Unified School District and Anthony Martinez,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 5, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint 
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant Montebello Unified
School District
Responding Party: Cross-Complainant Anthony Martinez
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANT TO FILE AND SERVE A
FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER. 
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff Walther
Medina filed the operative second amended complaint against Defendants
Montebello Unified School District (“MUSD”) and Anthony Martinez asserting
causes of action for (1) violation of Ralph Act; (2) sexual battery; (3) gender
violence; (4) violation of Unruh; (5) violation of Bane Act; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (7) negligence; and (8) violation of
Education Code. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Martinez, MUSD
Superintendent, sexually assaulted Plaintiff and sought a sexual relationship
with Plaintiff in exchange for money and education through MUSD. In the SAC,
Plaintiff alleges Martinez was also the Chief of Police of the school district.
 
On August 25, 2023, Martinez filed a
cross-complaint against MUSD, asserting causes of action for indemnity and
declaratory relief. Martinez alleges MUSD has wrongfully failed to defend and
indemnify Martinez against Plaintiff’s lawsuit.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732–33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
The district demurs to Martinez’
cross-complaint for indemnity and declaratory relief on the grounds that the
district cannot be liable under Labor Code § 2802 and because Martinez is not
entitled to indemnity for conduct that falls outside the scope of employment. 
 
Martinez alleges that Plaintiff has
sued him for conduct that occurred within the scope of his employment but
denies the allegations of sexual misconduct. The Court must take these
allegations as true. The demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis.
 
Labor Code § 2802 provides, “An employer shall indemnify his or her employee for all necessary
expenditures or losses incurred by the employee in direct consequence of the
discharge of his or her duties.” As a matter of law, however, this section is
inapplicable to public entities. (Thornton v. Cal. Unemployment Ins. App.
Bd. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1422-1423 (“Labor Code section 2802 has no
application to public employees seeking reimbursement of defense costs from
their employers”).) The equivalent statute for public entities is Gov. Code § 996.4.
 
As Martinez has alleged liability under a statute that excludes
government entities, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.


 



Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Walther Medina, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV39485




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Montebello Unified School District and Anthony Martinez,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 5, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendant Montebello Unified School
District
Responding Party: Plaintiff Walther Medina
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO THE THIRD AND
FOURTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO THE REMAINING
CAUSES OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF
NOTICE OF RULING. 
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff Walther
Medina filed the operative second amended complaint against Defendants
Montebello Unified School District (“MUSD”) and Anthony Martinez, asserting
causes of action for (1) violation of Ralph Act; (2) sexual battery; (3) gender
violence; (4) violation of Unruh; (5) violation of Bane Act; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (7) negligence; and (8) violation of
Education Code. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Martinez, MUSD
Superintendent, sexually assaulted Plaintiff and sought a sexual relationship
with Plaintiff in exchange for money and education through MUSD. In the SAC,
Plaintiff alleges Martinez was also the Chief of Police of the school district.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732–33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Vicarious Liability
 
Defendant MUSD demurs to the second
amended complaint on the grounds that MUSD is immune from liability as a public
entity and is not vicariously liable for Martinez’ torts. Gov. Code § 815
provides, “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury
arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or
any other person.” (Gov. Code § 815(a).) In other words, Gov. Code § 815
abolishes common law liability for public entities; liability must be based on
a separate statutory basis. (Miklosy v. Regents of University of California (2008)
44 Cal.4th 876, 899.) 
 
Plaintiff has failed to allege a
statutory basis for liability. From the parties’ papers, however, it appears
that Plaintiff seeks to hold MUSD liable under Gov. Code § 815.2, which
provides in pertinent part, “[a] public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,
have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative.” 
 
MUSD contends that it cannot be held
liable for Martinez’ sexual misconduct as it is not in the scope of his
employment. The general rule is that where an employee commits acts of sexual
misconduct during his work, such acts are outside the scope of his employment,
and no vicarious liability attaches. (See, e.g., Maria D. v. Westec
Residential Sec., Inc. (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 125, 146-147; Lisa M. v.
Henry Mayo Newhall Mem’l Hosp. (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 301; Farmers Ins.
Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992, 1006-1007.) There are
limited exceptions to this general rule when the perpetrator is in a position
of power and it is reasonably foreseeable that an abuse of the power may occur.
(See e.g. Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Martinez
promised him “money, education (including through Montebello Unified School
District), training, involvement in leadership programs, creating a class
specifically for Medina, creating a scholarship in Medina’s name, and assistance
with obtaining citizenship while secretly planning to exploit the trust
provided by Medina in Martinez’s capacity of Superintendent of Montebello
School District as a means of forcing him to engage in a sexual relationship in
an unlawful quid pro quo.”  Plaintiff
alleges that “Medina specifically told Martinez that he was not interested in a
romantic relationship and required Martinez to confirm with Medina that
Martinez did not expect sexual favors from Medina. Martinez fraudulently told
Claimant he did not expect a romantic relationship from Medina.” Plaintiff also
alleges that Martinez harassed him in his office at the school district,
sexually assaulted him at Martinez’ home and intimidated and harassed him at
his own home. 
 
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that
Martinez was not only the superintendent of the district, but also the chief of
police. Plaintiff argues that this allegation, along with allegations of MUSD’s
knowledge and ratification of Martinez’ behavior, brings this case into the
exceptions to the general rule of no vicarious liability for sexual misconduct.
(Mary M., supra 54 Cal.3d at 217-218 [“In view of the considerable power
and authority that police officers possess, it is neither startling nor
unexpected that on occasion an officer will misuse that authority by engaging
in assaultive conduct. The precise circumstances of the assault need not be
anticipated, so long as the risk is one that is reasonably foreseeable.
Sexual assaults by police officers are fortunately uncommon; nevertheless, the
risk of such tortious conduct is broadly incidental to the enterprise of law
enforcement, and thus liability for such acts may appropriately be imposed on
the employing public entity.”])
 
Defendant MUSD disputes that Martinez
was the “chief of police,” pointing to an order from the personnel commission
of MUSD voiding Martinez purported self-appointment as police chief. Plaintiff
asserts this information is outside the four corners of the complaint and the
Court cannot and should not consider it.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged vicarious liability. Plaintiff alleges Martinez exercised
considerable power over the employees and students of the district. Plaintiff
alleges Defendant was aware of Martinez’ behavior and allowed it to occur. This
makes the risk of further misbehavior reasonably foreseeable. The demurrer
cannot be sustained on this basis.
 
B. Gender Violence and Unruh Act
 
MUSD asserts that Plaintiff cannot
state a cause of action for gender violence under Civ. Code § 52.4. Civ. Code §
52.4(e) provides, “Notwithstanding any other laws that may establish the
liability of an employer for the acts of an employee, this section does not
establish any civil liability of a person because of his or her status as an
employer, unless the employer personally committed an act of gender violence.”
Plaintiff does not allege that MUSD itself committed an act of gender violence
and presents no authority to the contrary.
 
Courts have held that public school
districts are not “business establishments” under Unruh and therefore cannot be
held liable for Unruh violations. (See Brennon B. v.
Superior Court (2022) 13 Cal.5th 662.)
 
The demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED. As
it does not appear these claims may be remedied by amendment, the Court
declines leave to amend.
 
C. Education Code
 
Education Code § 220 prohibits
educational institutions that receive or benefit from state funds from
subjecting any person to discrimination on the basis of sex. To state a cause
of action for violation of Education Code § 220, Plaintiff must allege that
MUSD had actual knowledge of Martinez’ actions, had an opportunity to correct
those actions, and failed to do so. (See Donovan v. Poway Unif. Sch. Dist.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 605.) Defendant asserts that Martinez’ knowledge of
his own actions is not sufficient. But Plaintiff alleges he reported the
conduct to a to a person with authority to investigate,
prevent, correct, and ameliorate the unlawful conduct, but they failed to do
so. 
 
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
 
 
 
 
 