  Case Number:  20STCV17551    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Rosenthal v.
Advance Auto Parts
20STCV17551
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena served on Dr. Susan
Mandel.
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena served on Therese Moriarty,
Psy.D.
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena served on Dr. Jacob
Tauber.
Tentative
The motions are denied without prejudice.
Background
On May 8, 2020, Melinda Rosenthal (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Advance Auto Parts, Inc.; Worldpac, Inc.; Wheels, Inc.; Onorio Perez;
and Does 1 through 50 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising
out of an automobile accident occurring on May 12, 2018.
 
On May 2, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Advance
Stores Company, Inc. as Doe 1. 
 
On May 12, 2022, Advance Stores Company, Inc., Advance Auto Parts,
Inc. and Worldpac, Inc. filed an answer. The same day, Onorio Perez filed an
answer.
 
On July 1, 2022, Wheels, Inc. filed a demurrer.  That demurrer was overruled.  It does not appear that Wheels, Inc. ever
filed an answer.
 
On September 30, 2024, Defendants Advance Stores Company, Inc., Advance Auto
Parts, Inc., Worldpac, Inc., and Onorio Perez (collectively “Defendants”) filed these motions to compel three nonparties (Dr.
Susan Mandel, Therese Moriarty, Psy.D., and Dr. Jacob Tauber) to comply with
deposition subpoenas. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
A
nonparty must be personally served with a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd.
(b).)  Service must be completed “a
reasonable time” in advance of the deposition and, when documents are
requested, “a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the
deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce” the documents.  (Id., subd. (a).)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order
directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification.”¿ 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents
“must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty
deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
Discussion
Defendants
seek an order compelling compliance with subpoenas for business records served
on Plaintiff’s treating physicians, Dr. Susan Mandel, Therese Moriarty, Psy.D.,
and Dr. Jacob Tauber.  (Quirate Decls., ¶
3.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, provides:
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer
to a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible
thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty
deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or
electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on the
deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
 
The
Court finds service of these motions on the nonparty deponents was
improper.  According to the proof of
service, all three deponents were served by overnight mail.  For that reason alone, the Court must deny
these motions, without prejudice.
 
In
addition, the proof of service on the subpoena directed to Dr. Jacob Tauber is not
completed or signed.  Defendants have not
presented evidence of proper service of that subpoena. 
 
The
motions to compel are denied without prejudice. 
 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendants’ Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for
Business Records of Dr. Susan Mandal.
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Business Records of Therese Moriarty,
Psy.D.
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Business Records of Dr. Jacob Tauber.
Moving party is ORDERED to
give notice.