 Case Number:  23STCV03841    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Squire v. Trinhmartines
23STCV03841
Defendant’s Motion to Consolidate
 
Tentative
 
Motion is denied without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
These
two related cases arise out of a motor vehicle accident on March 12, 2021. 
 
In
this matter, the first filed case (Case No. 23STCV03841), on February 22, 2023,
Plaintiff Darius Squire (“Squire”) filed a complaint asserting causes of action
for negligence and negligence per se against Xinxin Trinhmartines, Eric Anthony
Leandro, David McCauley, Juan Manual Resendiz, JB Wholesale Roofing, Richard Wayne
Welch, Steve Michael Needleman, Reme Armando Soto Alverez, Jacob Michael
McCauley, and Martin Delgado, and Does 1 through 20 (the “Squire Action”).
 
On
August 1, 2023, Defendant Trinhmartinez
filed an answer. 
 
On
August 10, 2023, Defendants David McCauley, Eric Leandro, and Jacob McCauley
filed an answer. 
 
On
April 23, 2024, Defendants Alverez, Resendiz, Needleman, Delgado, JB Wholesale
Roofing, and Welch were dismissed.
 
In
the related, second filed case (Case No. 23VECV01021), on March 7, 2023, Juan
Resendiz and Rene Soto (collectively, the “Resendiz Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint asserting causes of action for general negligence and motor vehicle negligence
against Xinxin Trihnmartinez, Eric Anthony Leandro,
and Does 1 through 50 (the “Resendiz Action”).
 
On August 1, 2023, Defendant Trinhmartinez filed an
answer. 
 
On August 14, 2023, Defendant Leandro filed an answer.
 
In
the Squire Action, Defendant Xin Xin
Trinh-Martinez (“Defendant”) filed a motion to consolidate this action and the
Resendiz Action.  The motion was denied,
as the two cases had not been related and were pending in different departments.
 
On March 8, 2024, Defendant filed a second motion to
consolidate the two cases.  The motion
was again denied, as the two cases had not been related and were pending in
different departments.
 
On May 2, 2024, the Court related the two cases.  Both cases were assigned to the same
department (initially Department 30, and now Department 29).
 
On September 30, 2024, Defendant filed this third motion
to consolidate the Squire Action and the Resendiz Action.  
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (a).)
 
The
trial court should not consolidate actions where prejudice would result any
party, e.g., when consolidation would cause a litigant to need to adopt adverse
litigations positions in a single trial. 
(See State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47
Cal.2d 428, 430.)
 
Per
Local Rule 3.3, subdivision (g), “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are
in the same department.  A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule
3.3(g)(1).)  Once the Court relates the
cases, the Court may consolidate the actions and order a joint trial on matters
that “involv[e] a common question of law or fact.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §1048, subd. (a).) 
 
California
Rules of Court rule 3.350 states:
“(a)
Requirements of motion
(1)  A notice of
motion to consolidate must:
(A)  List all named
parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of
their respective attorneys of record;
(B)  Contain the
captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered
case shown first; and
(C)  Be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.
 
(2)  The motion to
consolidate:
(A)  Is deemed a
single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; 
(B)  Must be served
on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated; and
(C)  Must have a
proof of service filed as part of the motion.”
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
files this motion to consolidate this action (the Squire Action) with the Resendiz
Action.  Defendant states that the two
actions arise out of the same automobile accident on March 12, 2021. 
 
Defendant
has not, however, satisfied the procedural requirements of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(1)(C).  No
notice of motion was filed in the Resendiz Action.  Accordingly, the Court must deny the
motion.  The denial is on procedural
grounds and therefore is without prejudice.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES, without prejudice, the
motion to consolidate the Squire Action (Case No. 23STCV03841) and the Resendiz Action (Case No. 23EVCV01021).
 
Moving Party to give notice.