  Case Number:  21STCV46711    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JAZMIN M. ORTIZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RISEN BREAD LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV46711
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BIFURCATE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 20, 2024



 
On
January 25, 2024, Defendants Risen Bread LLC, Manna Development Group LLC, and Manna
Development Group filed a motion to bifurcate issues relating to punitive damages.
The
Court may order a separate trial of any cause of action or any separate issue in
furtherance of convenience or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition
and economy.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(b).)  The Court may also order the trial
of an issue to precede the trial on another issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)  “The court shall, on application of any defendant,
preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition
until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages
and finds that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance
with [Civil Code] Section 3294.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 3295, subd. (d).)
Plaintiff
Jazmin M. Ortiz filed a conditional non-opposition, requesting that if there is
a finding of liability for punitive damages, Defendants will cooperate in making
available records sufficient to establish ability to pay immediately upon a determination
that a second phase is necessary.  As noted
in the reply, this is a separate issue that does not affect this motion.
Because
bifurcation is mandatory under these circumstances, the motion to bifurcate
punitive damages is GRANTED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 20th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 