 Case Number:  23STCV07959    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



IVAN SALZAR VILLA, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
LAD-V LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV07959
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 20, 2024



 
On April 11, 2023, Plaintiffs
Ivan Salazar Villa (erroneously named as Ivan Salzar Villa) and Jose Salazar field
this action against Defendants LAD-V LLC (“LAD-V”) and Volkswagen Group of America
Inc. (“VW”), arising from Plaintiffs’ purchase of an allegedly defective vehicle.
On
June 21, 2023, Defendants filed a demurrer.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
A.        Plaintiffs Sufficiently Allege Breach
of Express Warranty.
Defendants
argue that the Song-Beverly Act’s express warranty provisions apply only to “new
motor vehicles,” not Plaintiffs’ used vehicle. 
(Demurrer at pp.4-5.)  Defendants rely
on Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez).  The California Supreme Court granted review of
Rodriguez and, when doing so, stated that the Court of Appeal opinion “may
be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited purpose of
establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in turn allow trial
courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court
[citation], to choose between sides of any such conflict.”  (Rodriguez v. FCA US (Cal. 2022) 295 Cal.Rptr.3d
351.)  Rodriguez has been fully briefed,
but no oral argument date has been set.
A
“new motor vehicle” includes “a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other
motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.”  (Civ. Code, § 1793.22, subd. (e)(2).)  The Rodriguez court “acknowledge[d] that
in isolation the phrase ‘other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty’ could arguably refer to any car sold with a manufacturer’s warranty still
in force,” but it agreed “that context clearly requires a more narrow interpretation.”  (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p.
220.)  The court noted that “the phrase appears
in a definition of new motor vehicles,” strongly suggesting that “the Legislature
did not intend the phrase to refer to used (i.e., previously sold) vehicles.”  (Ibid.)  The court also noted that “more importantly, the
phrase is preceded by ‘a dealer-owned vehicle and demonstrator,’ which comprise
a specific and narrow class of vehicles.” 
(Ibid.)  The Rodriguez
court therefore concluded that “the phrase ‘other motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s
new car warranty’ refers to cars sold with a full warranty, not to previously sold
cars accompanied by some balance of the original warranty.”  (Id. at p. 225.)
On
the other hand, the Court of Appeal in Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995)
35 Cal.App.4th 112 (Jensen) previously concluded that “cars sold with a balance
remaining on the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty are included within its
definition of ‘new motor vehicle.’”  (Id.
at p. 123.)  The court determined that
“the words of section 1793.22 are reasonably free from ambiguity” because “[t]he
use of the word ‘or’ in the statute indicates ‘demonstrator’ and ‘other motor vehicle’
are intended as alternative or separate categories of ‘new motor vehicle’ if they
are ‘sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.’”  (Ibid.)  The court also considered the legislative history
of the statute due to the “peculiar grammatical structure” of the section.  (Ibid.)  After reviewing the amendments to former section
1793.2, documents relating to those legislative proceedings, and the statutory scheme
as a whole, the court “conclude[d] the plain meaning and the legislative intent
are one and the same.”  (Ibid.)
The
Rodriguez court distinguished Jensen as involving a lease by a manufacturer-affiliated
dealer who issued a full new car warranty along with the lease.  (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p.
223.)  Defendants similarly attempt to distinguish
the cases.  (Reply at pp. 3-4.)  However, those facts were not relevant to the
Jensen court’s interpretation of the statute based on the statute’s plain
meaning and legislative intent.  (See Jensen,
supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at pp. 122-127.)
As
Plaintiffs note, the Complaint does not allege whether the vehicle was purchased
new or used.  (Opposition at p. 4.)  At this stage, and for Defendants’ argument, that
does not matter.  The Court finds the reasoning
and holding of Jensen more persuasive and more consistent with the plain
language and legislative history of the statute.  Under this authority, a used vehicle with a balance
of coverage remaining under the Warranty is not excluded from the Song-Beverly Act’s
express warranty provisions.  Accordingly,
regardless whether the vehicle was new or used, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged
a claim for breach of express warranty.
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
B.        Plaintiffs Sufficiently Allege Negligent
Repair.
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts for negligent repair.  (Demurrer at pp. 6-7.)  Specifically, they contend that Plaintiffs plead
only conclusory allegations devoid of facts. 
A cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff
to use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that LAD-V owed Plaintiffs a duty to use ordinary
care and skill in storage, preparation, and repair of the vehicle, it breached that
duty, and caused Plaintiffs’ damages.  (Complaint
¶¶ 28-31.)  This is sufficient.
With
respect to Defendants’ argument that Plaintiffs must plead an exact dollar value
of damages, their authority does not support this at demurrer.  (See Demurrer at p. 7.)  Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1495, 1520-1521 and Becker v. S.P.V. Construction Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d 489,
493-494 both considered whether defaulting defendants had notice of the amount of
damages sought.  Both cases discussed section
425.10’s requirements in the context of due process at default judgment—not in the
context of the sufficiently of a pleading on demurrer.
Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.10, subdivision (a)(2) does state that a complaint
“shall contain” a demand for relief, and “[i]f the recovery of money or damages
is demanded, the amount demanded shall be stated.”  Here, Plaintiffs pray for “damages according to
proof at trial.”  By filing this action in
Unlimited Jurisdiction, Plaintiffs have represented that at the time of filing,
the amount in controversy exceeded $25,000.00. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 85 [effective January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2023].)[1]  That is sufficient at this stage.
Defendants
also argue that this cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule.  (Demurrer at pp. 7-8.)  U der the economic loss rule, “[w]here a
purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought
is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses.”  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988, quotation marks
omitted.)
Plaintiffs’
tort claim for negligence by LAD-V is independent from their action against VW arising
under the Song-Beverly Act.  Specifically,
Plaintiffs allege that LAD-V failed to “properly store, prepare and repair” the
vehicle.  (Complaint ¶ 30.)  These are separate allegations against a defendant
who was not a party to Plaintiffs’ warranty contract.  Therefore, the economic loss rule does not bar
Plaintiffs’ negligence cause of action. 
C.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendants are ordered
to file an answer within 10 days.  (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j)(1).)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 20th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


