

 
 
BACKGROUND      
 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff Los
Angles Federal Credit Union (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action by filing a “Complaint
Pursuant to CCP § 366.2 And Probate Code § 5670, et seq.) for: Breach Of Written
Contract” (the “Complaint”) against Defendants Prennella Johnson aka Prenella
Royal, and Does 1 through 40, inclusive. 
 
The Complaint alleges the
following. On November 4, 2008, Mary Frances Adams (“Adams”), the mother of
Defendant Prennella Johnson aka Prenella Royal, entered into a written Visa
credit card agreement with Plaintiff. Compl., ¶ 8; Exhibit A – a copy of the contract.
Plaintiff has duly performed all of the conditions precedent on its part required
to be performed under the loan agreement. Defendant (as the surviving heir of MOTHER
is liable to Plaintiff) pursuant to Probate Code § 5672 to the extent MOTHER’s
property passed to Defendant without administration. Plaintiff is informed
believes and thereon alleges that all of MOTHER’s property passed without
administration to Defendant after MOTHER passed away on September 20, 2023.”
Compl., ¶ 9. “No part of said the $8,713.22 Visa card balance due has been
paid, although payment has been demanded and there is now due, owing and unpaid
from Defendant to Plaintiff the sum of $8,713.22.” Compl., ¶ 10.
 
On April 9, 2024, Defendant
Prennella Johnson (“Defendant”), in pro per, filed the instant demurrer (titled
motion to dismiss). 
 
As of May 15, 2024, no opposition
has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
The Complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action because Defendant is the wrong
defendant; she has never entered into a written visa credit card agreement with
Plaintiff and even her name is not mentioned on the credit card agreement
attached to the Complaint. The agreement shows that the person who signed it
was Mary F Adams, who is deceased, and Claudia Johnson, who is also deceased. Defendant
is the daughter of Mary F. Adams. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None.
 
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          DEMURRER
A.        Legal
Standard 
A party may
demurer a pleading on several statutory grounds, including that “[t]he pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).
“A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. “‘We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. [Citation.] We also
consider matters which may be judicially noticed.’ [Citation.] Further, we give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts
in their context.” Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.
“If a
complaint does not state a cause of action, but there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment, leave to amend must be
granted.” Milligan v. Golden Gate Bridge Highway & Transportation Dist.
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.
B.        Meet and Confer
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant
to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. ….
 
(1)  
As part of the meet and confer process, the demurring
party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it believes are
subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of the
deficiencies. The party who filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer
shall provide legal support for its position that the pleading is legally
sufficient or, in the alternative, how the complaint, cross-complaint, or
answer could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency. 
 
(2)  
The parties shall meet and confer at least 5 days
before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to
meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due,
the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time
within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before
the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty
of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension
shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was previously due, and
the demurring party shall not be subject to default during the period of the
extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court order upon a
showing of good cause.
 
(3)  
The demurring party shall file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration stating either of the following:
 
(A)  
The means by which the demurring party met and
conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that
the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the
demurrer.
 
(B)  
That the party who filed the pleading subject to
demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the demurring
party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a) (emphasis added). 
 
Here, even though she was required
to do so, Defendant did not file any declaration indicating that she met and
conferred with Plaintiff prior to filing the instant demurrer. Granted, “[a] determination
by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be
grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer” Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4). Here, however, there is no proof
that the process occurred at all.  
 
Accordingly, the Court will
CONTINUE the hearing to allow the parties to meet and confer regarding the
issues raised in the demurrer before the next hearing. 
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant Prennella Johnson’s Demurrer (titled Motion to
Dismiss) is CONTINUED to Thursday, June 13, 2024, 10:00 AM, Dept. 25,
Spring Street Courthouse.
 
The parties are ordered to meet and
confer regarding the issues raised in the demurrer before the next hearing.
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve
a supplemental declaration, at least five (5) court days before the next
hearing, informing the Court about the outcome of the meet and confer. Failure
to do so may result in the motion being placed off calendar or denied.
 

 
            Moving party to give notice. 
 