

 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 18,
2021, Plaintiffs Joanna Martinez and Delana Jacobs (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
filed the complaint against Defendants Hiram D. Webb (“Webb”) and Does 1
through 25 (collectively, “Defendants”). The complaint alleges negligence. 
 
On November 8, 2023, Plaintiffs
served Defendants, through their attorney, a Request for Admissions, Set One.
(Soto Decl. ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) Defendant Webb’s responses to Request for
Admissions, Set One, were due December 12, 2023. To date, Defendant Webb failed
to provide responses, which are now one hundred and thirty-two (132) days overdue,
failed to request extensions, failed to communicate reasons for delay, and
moreover failed to correspond with Plaintiffs altogether. 
 
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiffs served
Defendant Webb’s Request for Admission, Set Two. (Soto Decl. ¶ 6; Exhibit B.)
Defendant Webb’s responses to Request for Admissions, Set Two, were due April
8, 2024. To date, Defendant Webb failed to provide responses, which are now
forty-seven (47) days overdue, failed to request extensions, failed to
communicate reasons for delay, and moreover failed to correspond with
Plaintiffs altogether. 
 
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant motion. As of May 14, 2024, no opposition or reply has been filed. 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiffs’
move this Court for an order that deems Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set
One and Set Two, admitted and imposes monetary sanctions against Defendant Webb
in the amount of $2,175.
OPPOSITION
 
None. 
 
REPLY
 
None
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Deem
RFAs Admitted
A.        Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . .
by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.010.) “Within 30 days
after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are
directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting
party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.250(a).)
When a party fails to serve a timely
response to requests for admission “[t]he party to whom the request was
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc § 2033.280(a).) “The
requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents
and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as
well as for a monetary sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) The court
shall issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a
response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).) “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary
sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated [the] motion.” Id.

Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d)
provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to respond to or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a
misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully
and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit
discovery.”   “The court may impose a
monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct” under Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(a).  A court has discretion to
fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions.  Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit
Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.
 
B.        Discussion
Merits
Here, on November 8, 2023, Plaintiffs served
Defendants, through their attorney, a Request for Admissions, Set One. (Soto
Decl. ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) Defendant Webb’s responses to Request for Admissions,
Set One, were due December 12, 2023. (Id.) To date, Defendant Webb
failed to provide responses, which are now one hundred and thirty-two (132) days
overdue, failed to request extensions, failed to communicate reasons for delay,
and moreover failed to correspond with Plaintiffs altogether. (Id.)
 
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiffs served
Defendants a Request for Admissions, Set Two. (Soto Decl. ¶ 6; Exhibit B.)
Defendant Webb’s responses to Request for Admissions, Set Two, were due April
8, 2024. (Id.) To date, Defendant Webb failed to provide responses,
which are now forty-seven (47) days overdue, failed to request extensions,
failed to communicate reasons for delay, and moreover failed to correspond with
Plaintiffs altogether. (Id.)
 
Therefore, the Plaintiffs’ Motion
to Deem Requests For Admission Set One and Set Two is GRANTED. Requests for
Admissions Set One and Set Two are deemed admitted.  
 
Sanctions  
 
            Plaintiffs’ counsel seeks sanctions
against Defendant Webb in the amount of $2,175. 
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2033.250, parties to litigation must respond to requests for admissions
within 30 days of service. Failure to serve a timely response waives most
objections to responding and allows the requests to be deemed admitted by court
order after a motion for deemed admissions. (C.C.P. §2033.280(a) and (b).) 
 
            Here, Defendants
have failed to provide responses, which are now one hundred and
thirty-two days (132) overdue and forty-seven (47) days overdue, respectively. (Soto
Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.) Thus, the Court finds that sanctions are warranted. However, the
Court finds the requested amount to be unreasonable and excessive. Plaintiffs’
counsel seeks $2,175 for 2.5 hours preparing this motion at the rate of
$450.00, 1-hour to review Defendants’ opposition and draft a response, 1-hour
for the hearing, and $50.00 for the filing fees. The Court strikes the
anticipated hour in reviewing the opposition and drafting a reply because the
motion is unopposed. 
 
            Thus, the Court GRANTS sanctions IN
A REDUCED amount of $1,625.00 for 2.5 hours preparing the motion, 1 hour for
the hearing, and $50.00 filing fees. 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            In all, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Deem RFAs
Set One and Set Two, Admitted. Requests for Admissions, Set One and Set Two are
deemed admitted without objections. 
 
            Additionally,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions in a reduced amount of $1,625.00
against Defendant Hiram D. Webb.  
 
Defendant Hiram
D. Webb is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,625.00 to
Plaintiffs Joanna Martinez and Delana Jacobs through their counsel within 30
days of this Court’s order. 

 
            Moving
parties are ordered to give notice. 