  Case Number:  22STCV39547    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




eduardo luna

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
villa patrician home
   owner’s association, a suspended
   California corporation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV39547




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to disqualify attorney
  shawn m. olson and olson law firm
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Eduardo Luna           
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants BJD Services, LLC, Dawn
Kuykendall, Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall, Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens, Villa
Patrician Home Owner’s Association Inc., and Villa Patrician Home Owner’s
Association Inc.
Motion to Disqualify Attorney Shawn M. Olson and Olson Law Firm
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Eduardo Luna (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order
disqualifying Shawn M. Olson and the Olson Law Firm (“Counsel”) from
representing any party in this action, including defendants BJD Services, LLC,
Dawn Kuykendall, Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall, Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens,
Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association Inc., and Villa Patrician Home Owner’s
Association Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”).
“A trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the
power inherent in every court ‘[t]o control in furtherance of justice, the
conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected
with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining
thereto.’”  (People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change
Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1145 (“SpeeDee Oil”).) 
“In evaluating alleged conflicts, a court first looks to whether the challenged
representation is concurrent or successive.”  (Ontiveros v. Constable (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 686, 695.)  “The ‘primary value’ at issue in concurrent
‘or dual representation is the attorney’s duty—and the client’s legitimate
expectation—of loyalty….’”  (Ibid.)  The value
jeopardized by the successive representation of clients with potentially
adverse interests “is that of client confidentiality.”  (Ibid.) 
“The paramount concern [when resolving disqualification motions] must be to
preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the
integrity of the bar.”  (SpeeDee Oil, supra, 20 Cal.4th at
p. 1145.)  
First, the court finds, and the parties do not appear to dispute, that
Plaintiff has standing to bring this motion. 
“To bring a motion to disqualify counsel, the moving party must have
standing; that is, the invasion of a legally cognizable interest.  [Citation.] 
Standing may arise from an attorney-client relationship between the
moving party and targeted counsel or from a duty of confidentiality owed by the
attorney to the moving party despite the absence of an attorney-client
relationship.”  (Lynn v. George (2017)
15 Cal.App.5th 630, 636-637 [internal citation omitted].)
Here, Plaintiff has alleged claims on behalf of the Villa Patrician
Home Owner’s Association Inc. defendants (the “VPHOA Parties”) on the ground
that Plaintiff is a member of the VPHOA Parties by virtue of his ownership of
two units in the building that they govern.  (FAC ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which he states that he is
“an owner of two units under the auspices of the Villa Patrician Home Owner’s
Association.”  (Luna Decl., ¶ 2.)  While Plaintiff did not submit evidence
showing that such ownership of those units establishes that he was a member of
the VPHOA Parties, in their opposition papers, Defendants have asserted that
the VPHOA Parties “ha[ve] 16 units and thus 16 shareholders.”  (Opp., p. 5:12.)  Moreover, in the First Amended Cross-Complaint,
the VPHOA Parties, Dawn Kuykendall, and Rodney Owens have alleged that Plaintiff
is “a member of” the VPHOA Parties. 
(FACC ¶ 4.)  Thus, it appears that
Defendants concede that Plaintiff is a member of VPHOA Parties.  
            The court therefore finds that
Plaintiff has standing to bring this motion to disqualify Counsel
because (1) Plaintiff has alleged derivative claims on behalf of the VPHOA
Parties,     (2) Plaintiff is a member of the VPHOA Parties
by virtue of his ownership of two of their condominium units, such that (3) VPHOA
Parties’ standing has been vicariously imputed to Plaintiff.  (Blue Water Sunset, LLC v. Markowitz (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 477, 485 [finding that, because counsel had an attorney-client
relationship with the limited liability companies that were sued as nominal
defendants, of which the plaintiff was a 50 percent member, “their standing
must be imputed vicariously to” the plaintiff]; Id. at p. 486 [“A rule
of vicarious standing permits [the plaintiff] to enforce that uniliteral right
[to waive or not waive a conflict of interest] and insist upon the
disqualification relief available to the limited liability companies”].) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that (1) there exists
a conflict of interest between VPHOA Parties and the named defendants as a
result of Counsel’s concurrent representation of those parties, and (2)
therefore Counsel should be disqualified from representing VPHOA Parties in
this action.
It is undisputed that Counsel represents VPHOA Parties.  (See, e.g., Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint filed Aug. 2, 2024, p. 1:1-7; Opp. to Motion, p. 1:1-6; Olson Decl.,
p. 1:1-6.)  However, the first through
fifth causes of action alleged in the First Amended Complaint assert that they
are brought on behalf of the plaintiffs, in their individual capacity, and
derivatively on behalf of the VPHOA Parties. 
(FAC pp. 6:1-3, 8:20-22, 9:17-19, 10:19-22, 11:11-14.)  Thus, because VPHOA Parties are named as nominal
defendants in a derivative action, VPHOA Parties are “actually plaintiffs in
the eyes of the law.”  (Blue Water
Sunset, LLC, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th at p. 489; Heshejin v.
Rostami (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 984, 995 [“A derivative cause of action
belongs to the corporation, and the corporation is the true plaintiff”].)  VPHOA Parties’ “status as the true plaintiff
prevents an attorney from representing both the company and its insiders in a
derivative lawsuit that alleges the insiders breached their duties owed to the
company or otherwise injured the company. 
Such representation would be an impermissible concurrent representation
of clients with conflicting interests.” 
(Beachcomber Management Crystal Cove, LLC v. Superior Court (2017)
13 Cal.App.5th 1105, 1118.)  
            Thus, Plaintiff has shown that
Counsel is, in effect, representing both the plaintiffs (i.e., VPHOA Parties) and
the defendants in this action.  (Blue
Water Sunset, LLC, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th at p. 489.)  VPHOA Parties do not appear to meaningfully
dispute this in their opposition papers. 
The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion to disqualify Counsel from
representing VPHOA Parties in this action. 
(Id. at p. 487 [“If an attorney simultaneously represents two
clients with adverse interests, automatic disqualification is the rule in all
but a few instances”].)
            Third, the court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown that Counsel should be disqualified from representing
individual defendants Dawn Kuykendall (“D. Kuykendall”) and Jerilyn Rivetti
Kuykendall (“J. Kuykendall”) in this action.
            As a threshold matter, it appears
that Plaintiff contends that Counsel should not represent these defendants in
this action based on the “simultaneous representations” of the parties.  (Mot., p. 5:20-21, 5:25-26.)  However, the court has disqualified Counsel
from representing VPHOA Parties for the reasons set forth above.  Thus, Counsel will no longer be concurrently
representing parties with adverse interests, such that disqualification is not
necessary.  (See, e.g., Blue Water
Sunset, LLC, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th at p. 492 [disqualifying counsel
from representing the nominal defendants but permitting counsel to continue to
represent the named defendant].)
            Moreover, to the extent that
Plaintiff contends that Counsel should be disqualified from representing defendants
D. Kuykendall and J. Kuykendall under a successive representation theory, the
court disagrees.  “Successive
representation rules . . . generally do not prevent an attorney from continuing
to represent insiders in a derivative lawsuit even though a substantial
relationship exists between the attorney’s previous representation of the
company and the attorney’s current representation of insiders in the company’s
lawsuit against them.  [Citations.]  This separate rule derives from a recognition
that insiders are the source of a closely held company’s confidential
information.”  (Beachcomber Management
Crystal Cove, LLC, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1118-1119.)  “[I]n this scenario, ‘[c]ounsel’s continued
representation of the [insiders] poses no threat to [c]ounsel’s continuing duty
of confidentiality to [the company]’ because the insiders already know all of
the Company’s confidential information.” 
(Id. at p. 1119.) 
            Both Plaintiff and Defendants have
submitted evidence showing that D. Kuykendall and J. Kuykendall, as insiders,
could provide their new attorney with the same information that Counsel has
obtained.  Specifically, Plaintiff has (1)
stated, in his declaration, that (ii) D. Kuykendall has acted as the Chief
Executive of VPHOA Parties for more than five years, (ii) J. Kuykendall has
acted as the Secretary of VPHOA Parties “for most of that time[,]” and (iii) D.
Kuykendall and R. Kuykendall “both have acted and continue to act as the sole
board members[,]” and (2) submitted a copy of the Statement of Information for
Villa Patrician Homeowner’s Association (Entity No. 0889948), which states that
D. Kuykendall is the Chief Executive Officer. 
(Luna Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7; Luna Decl., Ex. C, p. 1.)  Similarly, Defendants have submitted the
declaration of Counsel, in which Counsel states that, of the 16 residential
units comprising VPHOA Parties, D. Kuykendall owns seven units.  (Olson Decl., ¶ 2.) 
            Thus, in light of the evidence
submitted by the parties showing that D. Kuykendall is a member of the VPHOA
Parties and that she and defendant J. Kuykendall are the sources of VPHOA
Parties’ confidential information by virtue of their positions as Chief
Executive Officer and Secretary, such that “it would be meaningless to apply
the successive representation rules to prevent” Counsel from representing them
in this action, the court finds that disqualification of Counsel would “serve
no purpose[.]”  (Beachcomber
Management Crystal Cove, LLC, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 1119; Id.
at p. 1122 [application of this rule “turns on whether the insiders had access
to the same information as the attorney who represented both the insiders and
the company”].)  The court therefore
denies Plaintiff’s motion to disqualify Counsel from representing D. Kuykendall
and J. Kuykendall in this action.
            Fourth, the court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown that Counsel should be disqualified from representing
defendants Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens, and BJD Services, LLC in this
action.  
As to these defendants, Plaintiff bases his motion on the sole ground
that Counsel cannot represent VPHOA Parties while concurrently representing the
individual defendants on the ground that it would violate Counsel’s duty of
loyalty.  (Mot., p. 6:5-23.)  The duty of loyalty is “at stake” when there
is a concurrent representation of multiple clients resulting in a conflict of
interest.  (M’Guinness v. Johnson (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 602, 613.)  However, for
the reasons set forth above, the court has disqualified Counsel from
representing VPHOA Parties in this action, such that Counsel will no longer
represent parties with adverse interests.  To the extent that Plaintiff contends that the
duty of confidentiality may be breached (which is put at issue with successive
representation), Plaintiff did not present sufficient argument establishing
that the court should disqualify Counsel on that ground.  (Ibid. [noting that in successive
representation cases, the “‘chief fiduciary value jeopardized is that of client
confidentiality‘”] [emphasis in original].)  The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion
to disqualify Counsel from representing defendants Brian McWilliams, Rodney
Owens, and BJD Services, LLC in this action.
ORDER
            The court grants in part plaintiff
Eduardo Luna’s motion to disqualify attorney Shawn M. Olson and Olson Law Firm
as follows.
            The court orders that Shawn M. Olson
and Olson Law Firm are disqualified from representing in this action (1) Villa
Patrician Home Owner’s Association, Inc., and (2) Villa Patrician Home Owner’s
Association, Inc.
            The court denies all other relief
requested in plaintiff Eduardo Luna’s motion to disqualify attorney Shawn M.
Olson and Olson Law Firm.
            
 
 
 
The court orders plaintiff Eduardo Luna to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  September 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court