 Case Number:  22STLC07612    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  25  Lalani v. Brown, et al. 22stlc07612I.                 Background    On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff Nazmudin M. Lalani  (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Eddie L. Brown (“Brown”) and Jacqueline R.  Johnson (“Johnson”) (collectively “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for  damages for failure to release funds deposited in escrow.   On June  13, 2023, Plaintiff served his first set of requests for admissions, request  for production, and form interrogatories. Responses to those requests were due  on or before July 17, 2023. (CCP § 2031.010 et seq.)    On  July 21, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel advising that  responses were overdue.  (Delman Decl., ¶  3, Ex. 2).   On  August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed three motions on each Defendant individually:  (1) Motions to Compel Responses to Request for Production, Set One, and Request  for Monetary Sanctions; (2) Motions to Compel Responses to Request to Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary Sanctions; and (3) Motions  to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted.   Defendant is requesting a combined total of $7,710 in sanctions.    To  date Defendants have not responded to the requests for admissions, request for  production, and form interrogatories.     No Opposition.  Plaintiff’s opposition to the Motions were due nine (9)  court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  Therefore, oppositions were due September 14,  2023.  Plaintiff has not filed any  opposition to the Motions.      II.              Judicial Notice    On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request that the  Court take judicial notice of: (1) this action’s Complaint; (2) Plaintiff’s  motion to compel responses to documents requests filed in the unlawful detainer  action entitled Nazmudin Lalani v. Clifford Mack, Los Angeles Superior  Court Case No. 22STUD01625 (“UD Case”) filed on November 9, 2022; and (3)  Defendant’s opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel filed in the UD Case on  December 5, 2022.   The Court may take  judicial notice of material that is part of a file in the Court in which the  matter is being heard provided the moving party specifies the part of the Court  file sought to be judicially noticed, which Plaintiff has done.  (See CRC  Rule 3.1306(c).)     This action’s Complaint, Case No. 22STUD01625’s motion  to compel, and Case No. 22STUD01625’s opposition to the motion to compel is  part of the Court’s record, and Plaintiff is entitled to request the Court take  judicial notice of filings that are part of its record.  (See CA  Evid. Code §452.)¿   The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s  Requests for Judicial Notice. III.            Motion to  Compel Responses to Request for Production, Motion to Compel Responses To Form  Interrogatories–General.    Plaintiff has filed two separate discovery motions on each  Defendant individually: (1) Motion to Compel Responses to Request for  Production, Set One; (2) Motion to Compel Responses to Request to Form  Interrogatories, Set One. (collectively “Motions” or  “Discovery Motions.”)  Upon review of the  separate motions submitted, the documents for the two motions to compel  responses are identical in substance.   All of the documents contain the same factual allegations and legal  support.    Each  motion request monetary sanctions for a total sanction amount of: $5,140.   Plaintiff alleges that as of the date the Motions were  filed, no discovery responses had been provided to any of the requests.       IV.            Motion to Deem RFAs  Admitted.   Plaintiff  has also filed a motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted on each  Defendant individually. Upon review of the separate  motions submitted, the documents for the two motions are identical in  substance.  Each contains the same  factual allegations and legal support.    Each  motion request monetary sanctions for a total sanction amount of: $2,570.    Plaintiff alleges that as of the date the Motions were  filed, no discovery responses had been provided to any of the requests.     Legal Standards   A.     Motions to Compel  Responses.    A party may make a demand for  production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at  any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the  party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for  production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply  with the formatting requirements in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.030.  A party may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to  the subject matter of the pending action and any additional number of official  form interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending  action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).)    The party whom the request is  propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a  demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and  confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a);  Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.060, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.070, subd. (a)  - (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.070, subd. (a) - (b).)    If a party fails to timely  respond to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the  request is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings  under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.300, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)     The party who propounded the  discovery request may bring a motion to compel and the court shall impose a  monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully  makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for production of  documents or interrogatories, unless the court finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.  (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)    B.    Deem Requests for Admissions Admitted    Where there has been no timely response to requests for  admissions, a “requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of  any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed  admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with  section 2023.010).”  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests  for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for  admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a  proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial  compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).)    C.     Sanctions.    Misuse of the discovery process  constituting conduct subject to sanctions include “failing to respond or to  submit to an authorized method of discovery” and “failing to confer in person,  by telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable  and good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d) and (i).) The court may impose a  monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery  process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable  expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that  conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) All discovery motions  require a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and  good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the  motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)     Sanctions are mandatory in  connection with a motion to deem matters specified in a request for admissions  as true and motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for  production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that  the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that  other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c), 2033.280(c).)      V.                 Discussion  A.     Motions to  Compel Responses.   Plaintiff timely served all the discovery requests on Defendants  Brown and Johnson Lee on June 13, 2023.  (Delman  Decl. for Motions to Compel Responses to Request for  Production, Ex. 1; Delman Decl. for Motion to  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Ex. 1).   Defendants had 30 days to respond  but did not do so, nor they did not request any extension.  (Id.,  ¶ 4). Plaintiff’s attorney of record declares that as  of August 11, 2023, Defendants have not answered any of the discovery requests  or conferred with Plaintiffs about the status of the responses.  (Id., ¶ 4.)     Because Defendants have failed to respond to the discovery  requests, each Defendant is compelled to respond to the request for production  of documents and form interrogatories, without objection, including objections based on privilege or on the  protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300 subd. (a); Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  For  interrogatories, the failure to respond also waives any right to exercise the  option to produce writings under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230.    Thus, Plaintiff’s Motions are  GRANTED.   B.     Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted.    Plaintiff moves to deem its Request for Admissions admitted  as to each Defendant.     Plaintiff is entitled to an order deeming its Requests for  Admissions admitted. Plaintiff supports its claims with a declaration from  Counsel. As noted above, Plaintiff propounded RFAs, on Defendant on June 13,  2023. (Delman Decl. for Motion for Requests for Admission to be Deemed Admitted,  ¶ 2; Exhibit 1.) However, verified responses were never served on Plaintiff.  (Id.,  ¶ 3.)    Because Defendants have not sent verified responses to  Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. The  genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in  Defendant’s motion are admitted.      C.    Sanctions     Additionally, failure to respond  to discovery requests is misuse of the discovery process subject to sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) The court is required to award monetary  sanctions against Defendant unless Defendant can show they “acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (c).) The monetary sanction shall be in the amount of “the reasonable  expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that  conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) Counsel for Defendant requests two  separate awards of sanctions.    1.  For the requests for production:    $1,285 for: (1) one hour  researching and drafting this motion; (2) the additional one hour reviewing Defendant’s  opposition to this motion and drafting a reply; and (3) an additional hour of  preparing for and attending the hearing on this motion all at a rate of $525.00  per hour.   Plaintiff also requests  reimbursement of the filing fee of $60. (Declaration of Dana Delman re Request for  Production ¶ 5.)    2.  For the  Motion to Compel Responses to Request to Form Interrogatories, Set One:   $1,285 for: (1) one hour  researching and drafting this motion; (2) the additional one hour reviewing  Defendant’s opposition to this motion and drafting a reply; and (3) an  additional hour of preparing for and attending the hearing on this motion all  at a rate of $525.00 per hour.    Plaintiff also requests reimbursement of the filing fee of $60. (Declaration  of Dana Delman re Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories ¶ 5.)    3.   For the Motion to Deem  RFAs Admitted   $1,285 for: (1) one hour  researching and drafting this motion; (2) the additional one hour reviewing  Defendant’s opposition to this motion and drafting a reply; and (3) an  additional hour of preparing for and attending the hearing on this motion all  at a rate of $525.00 per hour.    Plaintiff also requests reimbursement of the filing fee of $60. (Declaration  of Dana Delman re Requests for Admission be Deemed Admitted ¶ 5.)    Utilizing  a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances including  Defendant’s lack of replies and the similarity of the motions to each other,  the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and  costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motions  against Defendant is $2,100, reflecting 4 hours incurred at $525 per hour (three  hours for drafting all the motions and and a hour for attending the hearing on  the three motions.) Plus reimburse of the filing fee of $360 (six motions at  $60.00 filing fee each.)                   V.  Conclusion    Plaintiff’s Motions are GRANTED.  Defendants are ordered to serve verified  responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Form Interrogatories-General,  all without objection, within 20 days.    The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to deem Request for  Admissions admitted as to Defendant Brown and Defendant Johnson.    The  Court GRANTS sanctions in the reduced total amount of $2,100.