 Case Number:  23STLC03804    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  25  Hallett v. VCA Inc., et al. 23stlc03804ANALYSIS:                              
 
I.               
Background
 
Plaintiff Douglas L. Hallett (“Plaintiff”) filed this Complaint
against Defendants VCA, Inc. (“VCA”), Marie Kerl, DVM (“Kerl”), and Michael
Kwan, DVM (“Kwan”) (collectively, “Defendants”). The action arises out the loss
of Plaintiff’s pet dog, Rosie, which occurred on October 6, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 1.)
 
Defendants filed the instant Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint (the “Motion”) on August 07, 2022. The Motion seeks to
strike the allegations supporting the claim for exemplary damages under Civil
Code § 3340 as well as the request for judicial referral of the individual
defendants to the California Veterinary Medical Board for disciplinary action.
(See Notice of Motion at pg. 2.) Plaintiff opposes the Motion. 
 
II.             
Legal
Standard 
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike
matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or
improper. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435; 436, subd. (a).) Motions may also target
pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in conformity with
applicable laws, rules, or orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
Motions to strike in limited jurisdiction courts,
however, may only challenge pleadings on the basis that “the damages or relief
sought are not supported by the allegations of the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 92, subd. (d).) 
 
 “Before filing a
motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the
motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
 
III.           
Discussion

 
Defendant’s Motion is accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure § 435.5 (Mot., Burdine
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) 
 
A. Plaintiff’s Allegations 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following: (1) that Plaintiff
adopted a Boxer dog, Roise, on March 8, 2020 from the Pasadena Humane Society
(Compl. ¶ 1); (2) that, prior to the adoption, Roise had been spayed on
February 27, 2020 (Ibid.); (3) that, on or before July 12, 2022, Rosie
experienced bloody discharge from her vulva, which is alleged to have been a
symptom of a urinary tract infection and/or ovarian remnant syndrome (“ORS”) (Id.
at ¶ 10); (4) ORS is further alleged that to be “a potentially perilous
condition stemming from ovarian tissue inadvertently left int eh body when a
dog is spayed” (Ibid.); (5) that, on July 12, 2023, Plaintiff
communicated his concerns with VCA’s Foothill Veterinary Hospital branch of
Rosie’s condition and the possibility that she had ORS (Id. at ¶¶ 10, 15);
(6) that the Defendants failed to return Plaintiff’s phone call for three days
and applied a “mistaken diagnosis protocol establish and maintained by VCA and
Kerl to deny Rose care she desperately needed” (Id. at ¶¶ 11, 16); (7)
that Rosie’s discharge had ended by the time Kwan returned Plaintiff’s call,
and when the phone call was returned, Kwan informed Plaintiff that they could
not diagnose Rosie until she discharged again. (Id. at ¶¶ 11, 18.);
(8) by September 5, 2022, Rosie exhibited a second manifestation of ORS, and on
September 11, 2022, she was taken to an emergency veterinarian where Rosie was
diagnosed with ORS (Id. at ¶¶ 11, 21-22); (9) by then, Rosie’s condition
degenerated into pyometra, which is a potentially fatal infection, and because
of VCA’s lack of availability, Plaintiff elected to have the emergency
veterinarian conduct the necessary surgery (Id. at ¶ 12); (10) that the
blood work done relating to this surgery showed that Rosie had developed a low
red blood cell count and eventually anemia due to the pyometra (Ibid.);
(11) despite best efforts, Rosie succumbed to a seizure resulting from her
anemia and died on October 6, 2022 (Id. at ¶¶ 12, 26). 
 
It is further alleged that VCA,
under Kerl’s leadership, maintains on its website that a urinalysis can be
performed without the presence of discharge and that signs of ORS can include a
spayed dog going into heat as well as “swelling of the vulva and blood-tinged
vaginal discharge.” (Id. at ¶¶ 13-14, Exh. A.) Plaintiff alleges that
VCA’s policy on diagnosing ORS falsely states that the dog must be in heat. (Id.
at ¶¶ 19-20.)
 
B. Merits
 
                                    
i.                   
Exemplary
Damages per Civil Code § 3340
 
Defendants first seek to strike Plaintiff’s request for
exemplary damages under Civil Code § 3340 as well as portions of the following paragraphs
that support this request: (1) Para. 32 (“gross negligence” found on pg. 14,
lns: 7-8); (2) Para. 37 (“gross violations of the standard of car” found on pg.
16, ln. 4); and (3) Para., (“carelessly” and “recklessly” found on pg. 17, ln.
17). (Mot., pg. 2.) 
 
In addition to the
reasonable costs of care occasioned by the [defendant’s conduct], a plaintiff may
seek exemplary damages where the wrongful conduct perpetrated against the pet
was committed willfully or by gross negligence. (Civ. Code, § 3340.) In order
to establish a claim for gross negligence, the complaint must allege that the
defendant’s conduct was extreme. (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1185–1186.) In other words, this alleged conduct
must rise to the level of “either a ‘ “ ‘want of even scant care’ ” ’ or ‘ “
‘an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of conduct.’ ” ’ [Citations.]”
(City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 754)
Thus, Gross negligence “ ‘connotes such a lack of care as may be presumed to
indicate a passive and indifferent attitude toward results....’ ” (Eriksson
v. Nunnink (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 826, 857.)
 
            Here, Defendants contend that the
Complaint fails to allege that they acted intentionally or that their conduct
was an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of care. (Mot. at pg. 4.)
In this regard, Defendants assert that the advice to wait until Rosie exhibited
discharge again did not amount to gross negligence, even if another
veterinarian would have acted differently under the circumstances. (Ibid.,
relying on Williamson v. Prida (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1417, 1426.) 
 
However, Defendants’ reliance on Williamson is
misplaced. In that case, the Court of Appeal was examining whether the lower
court erred in not granting the defendants’ motion for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict on the basis that the evidence did not support a finding that they
had acted below the standard of care, and ultimately, the Court of Appeal agreed
with the defendants’ contention that they did not act below the standard of
care. (Williamson, supra, 75 Cal.App.4th at 1419.) There, one of the theories
of negligence hinged on the assertion that the usage of Oxytetracycline shots
on a horse to treat an infection was unnecessary. (Id. at 1425.)
Plaintiff relied solely on the testimony of a veterinarian who testified that
he disagreed with the use of that drug under the circumstances, but as the
Court of Appeal noted, this veterinarian did not treat race-track horses.
Competing testimony had provided from race-track veterinarians that the
treatment was appropriate. (Id. at 1425-1426.) Thus, it was concluded
that “[t]his disagreement does not establish the standard of care, or a
violation thereof.” (Id. at 1426.) 
 
In this case, Plaintiff does not allege that Defendants
chose to treat Rosie in a different manner. Rather, it is alleged that
Defendants elected to not treat Rosie at all based on a false notion that she
must be in heat in order to rule out whether she had ORS. (Compl. ¶¶
10-11,18-20) It is further alleged that, after Rosie’s passing, Plaintiff
presented to Defendants literature establishing their misconduct, but the
misinformation regarding treatment for ORS remains on VCA’s website. (Id.
at ¶¶ 38, 42.) Effectively, it has been alleged that Defendants’ failure to
treat Rosie and refusal to take accountability was an extreme departure of the
standard of conduct when medical literature existed prior to Rosie’s passing
evidencing ORS could be diagnosed when a dog was not in heat. Because these
allegations show an “passive and indifferent
attitude toward results”, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficient
alleged his claim for exemplary damages under Civil Code § 3340.
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ request to
strike Plaintiff’s exemplary damages under Civil Code § 3340 and the supporting
allegations is DENIED.
 
                                            
ii.         
Request
for Referral to the California Veterinary Medical Board
 
Next, Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s request for
referral of Kerl and Kwan to the California Veterinary Medical Board because
there is no mechanism for court referral and Kerl did not treat Rosie. (Mot. at
pp. 4-5.)  However, the lack of a formal
referral mechanism does not render the request irrelevant, false, or improper
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 436, subdivision (a). The purpose of the
California Veterinary Medical Board is to investigate and prosecute
veterinarian misconduct, and this misconduct includes negligence, incompetence,
and cruelty to animals. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 4875.1, subd. (a).)  Moreover, the Court has the “[p]ower to
create a remedy for a wrong in the absence of a statutory provision. (See 3
Cal. Proc. (6th), Actions, § 3 et seq.)” (2 Witkin, Cal. Proc. 6th
(2023) Courts § 224.) Therefore, the requested referral is not improper. Additionally,
the fact that Kerl did not treat is not dispositive at this stage because it
alleged that Kerl maintains false treatment information on the VCA’s website,
which could constitute negligence that lead to Rosie’s death.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ request to strike Plaintiff’s
request for referral is DENIED.
 
IV.           
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants
VCA, Inc., Marie Kerl, and Michael Kwan’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED in its entirety.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.