  Case Number:  22STCV30773    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Elliot Lander’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses by Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Gary Stiffelman
and Request for Sanctions
BACKGROUND
In
this case, GARY STIFFELMAN (“Stiffelman”) alleges that Defendants JOSEPH RUBIN,
individually and in his capacity as Trustee of the Licht 2018 Irrevocable Trust,
STUART RUBIN, ELLIOT LANDER (“Lander”), DESERT MEDICAL PROPERTIES, SGE REALTY
LLC (“SGE”), and THE COACHELLA LIGHTHOUSE, LLC (“Lighthouse”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) improperly withheld rent payments due to Stiffelman for breaches
of contracts by SGE and Lighthouse. Stiffelman also alleges that Defendants
induced and interfered with a sublease.  
Lander’s operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”)
alleges that Stiffelman, in his capacities as manager, investor and attorney
for the Global Hotel Project, breached fiduciary duties and committed fraud, as
to investors including Lander. The SACC alleges claims for: 1. Breach of
Contract; 2. Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 3.
Breach of Fiduciary Duties; 4. Fraud and Deceit (False Promise); 5.
Constructive Fraud; 6. Intentional Interference with Advantageous Business
Relationships; 7. Conspiracy; 8. Declaratory Relief; 9. Implied Indemnity; 10.
Comparative Indemnity; 11. Specific Equitable Indemnity; and 12. Legal
Malpractice.
On 7/10/2024, Lander filed a motion to compel
Stiffelman to provide further responses to Requests for Production Nos. 1-10,
14, 17, 19, and 26 and for monetary sanctions. Stiffelman opposes the motion. 
DISPUTED REQUESTS
The disputed RFPs (“Disputed RFPs”) consist of
requests seeking (1) documents relating to communications and agreements Stiffelman
had with Calmwater (alleged alter ego of USRECH) related to the Riverside
lawsuit (RFP Nos. 1-2, 5); (2) documents relating to communications and agreements
Stiffelman had with USRECH related to the Riverside lawsuit (RFP Nos. 3-4, 8); (3)
writings exchanged between Stiffelman’s attorneys and Calmwater and Calmwater
attorneys related to the Riverside lawsuit (RFP Nos. 6-7); (4) writings exchanged
between Stiffelman’s attorneys and USRECH and USRECH attorneys related to the Riverside
lawsuit (RFP Nos. 9-10); (4) writings exchanged between Stiffelman’s attorney Pachulsky
and attorney Hamid Rafatajoo related to the loan (RFP No. 14); (5) documents
related to any settlement agreement between Stiffelman and USRECH related to
the Riverside lawsuit (RFP Nos. 17, 19); and (6) documents exchanged between
Stiffelman’s attorney Pachulsky and Lander prior to an October 2019 meeting
(RFP No. 26). 
As reflected in the Separate Statement, Stiffelman
asserted various objections to the Disputed RFPs. After an IDC with the Court
on 6/17/2024, it became clear that Stiffelman does not intend to stand on most
of his objections. The crux of the parties’ dispute is Stiffelman’s objection
to RFP Nos. 6-7, 9-10, and 14 on the grounds that a joint defense and/or common
interest privilege protects the information sought in these requests. Stiffelman
has refused to produce responsive documents to these requests based on the
joint defense/common interest privilege. Lander is moving to compel further
responses to the other Disputed RFPs based on the nature of the document
production and privilege log. 
LEGAL STANDARD
California does not have a statute providing for a
common interest privilege in California. Raytheon Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 208 Cal. App. 3d 683, 689. Nevertheless, the Evidence Code provides that
a litigant may “disclose confidential information without waiving the
attorney-client privilege when the disclosure is to ‘those who are present to
further the interest of the client in the consultation’ or is ‘reasonably
necessary for the transmission of the information or the accomplishment of the
purpose for which the lawyer is consulted.’ (§ 952; and see § 912, subd. (d).)”
Roush v. Seagate Tech., LLC (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 210, 223. This
common interest doctrine therefore allows parties to share privileged
information with third parties without waiving the privilege when doing so
furthers the attorney-client relationship.  To find that the common interest doctrine attaches
to communications, “most courts seem to insist that the two parties have in  common an interest in securing legal advice
related to the same matter—and that the communications be made to advance their
shared interest in securing legal advice on that common matter.” Golden Door
Properties, LLC v. Superior Ct. of San Diego Cnty. (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th
733, 781–82. 
ANALYSIS
RFP Nos. 6-7, 9-10, and 14 seek documents exchanged
between Stiffelman’s attorneys and Calmwater/USRECH and/or their attorneys related
to the Riverside lawsuit. Stiffelman has the burden of demonstrating that the
common interest doctrine applies to protect these communications. Stiffelman -through
his counsel’s declarations- set forth facts explaining how and why Stiffelman’s
attorneys have communicated with USRECH’s attorneys regarding the Riverside
lawsuit. Stiffelman settled the Riverside lawsuit with USRECH in 2021 and
agreed to cooperate with USRECH in its pursuit of recovering from other defendants
(including Lander). Counsel thus exchanged numerous communications regarding USRECH’s
ongoing litigation against Lander. Indeed, USRECH is going to trial against
Lander in the Riverside lawsuit in January.
Only privileged communications can remain privileged
under the common interest doctrine. Lander contends that Stiffelman has not and
cannot establish that the information provided to USRECH was itself privileged as
to Lander because Lander contends that the attorney communicating with USRECH (Pachulski)
also represented Lander. Even if such communications were privileged, Lander
also contends that Stiffelman has not and cannot establish that Stiffelman and
USRECH were not adversaries and were instead working on a shared interest on
the Riverside lawsuit. 
 
The Court concludes that this dispute between the
parties may be best suited for a discovery referee, who can parse through each
of the parties’ various argument on the common interest doctrine. At the same
time, USRECH (not a party to this case) is set to go to trial against Lander in
January 2025 in the Riverside lawsuit. Stiffelman’s opposition notes that
USRECH objected to discovery propounded by Lander in that case on common
interest grounds and Lander did not move to compel further responses. Given
that this case is not set for trial until May 2025, it seems appropriate to
wait until the Riverside litigation is complete before determining the common
interest dispute in this case. Thus, the Court proposes continuing the motion
on that issue for several months. The parties can meet with the Court for a
status conference after the Riverside lawsuit and discuss an appropriate referee
to work with the parties on this issue after the Riverside case is done. 
RFP Nos. 1-5, 8, and 19 seek documents and
communications between Stiffelman and USRECH/Calmwater regarding the Riverside
lawsuit. Importantly, these requests do not seek communications between Stiffelman’s
attorneys and USRECH’s attorneys. The Separate Statement reflects that
Stiffelman, despite asserting various objections, agreed to produce documents
for these requests. Lander contends that the production and privilege log are
not sufficient under the Code. The Court disagrees. Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2031.280 requires the producing party to identify the request number to
which documents respond. Stiffelman’s Document Production Log provided in
October 2023 suffices for this purpose. The Code does not require a more
granular identification. Lander also contends that the privilege log is not code
compliant. The Court has reviewed the privilege log provided by Stiffelman (Weiss
Decl., Ex. K.) The log complies with the Code; the additional information Lander
seeks is itself privileged information about the contents of the communications
and is not appropriate for the log.   
RFP No. 26 – This request seeks documents between Stiffelman’s
attorney Pachulsky and Lander. While Stiffelman objected to the request on common
interest/attorney-client privilege grounds, his opposition contends that he is
only asserting the common interest doctrine objection with respect to
communications between his attorney and USRECH’s attorney. It is unclear what
the nature of the parties’ dispute is with respect to this RFP. To the extent Stiffelman
is not asserting any privilege for this request, he should clarify that with
Lander.
Given that both parties have various arguments for and
against the motion to compel further, the Court finds no basis to impose sanctions
against either party. 
Thus, the Court continues the motion on the common
interest doctrine issues and denies the motion with respect to RFP Nos. 1-5, 8,
19 and sanctions. 