 Case Number:  23STCV12007    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition  Subpoena for Production of Documents by Third-Party    Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition  Subpoena for Production of Documents by Third-Party is granted, provided that Defendant establishes that it served the motion on Third-Party Astonish.    BACKGROUND Jaime Blanco Maciel and Helen Ortiz-Blanco brought this action against Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC (“Defendant”) and  other defendants, alleging that Plaintiff Jaime Blanco Maciel (“Plaintiff”)  developed silicosis and other conditions through his work as a fabricator,  cutter, polisher, and installer of stone countertops.   The causes of action are: (1) Negligence; (2) Strict Liability - Warning Defect; (3) Strict  Liability - Design Defect; (4) Fraudulent Concealment; (5) Breach of Implied  Warranties;  and (6) Loss of Consortium.  Moving Defendant requests that the Court order  Third-Party Astonish, Inc. to comply with the subpoena for business records.  Defendant also requests that the Court grant sanctions totaling $3,364.20.   LEGAL STANDARD A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a  party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written  deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records. Code  Civ. Proc., § 2020.010. A deposition subpoena may command the attendance and  testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other  documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things. Code Civ.  Proc., § 2020.020. The Court may order a third party to comply with a  deposition subpoena upon any terms or condition as the court shall declare.  Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 states: “A  written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to  a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing  from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent  unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic  service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition  record.” Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision  a provides that “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one  engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that  conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,  incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” According to Code of Civil  Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision d, misuse of the discovery process  includes “making . . . unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a  motion to compel or to limit discovery.”   ANALYSIS A. Service It is unclear from the proof of service attached to  the motion whether Defendant served Astonish with a copy of the motion to  compel. The proof of service states that all defense counsel received a copy of  the motion but makes no mention of third party Astonish. The Court will need  proof from Defendant at the hearing as to the service of the motion on Astonish.  The Court nevertheless considers the merits of the motion.    B. Subpoena for Employment Records In this product defects matter, Plaintiff alleges he developed  silicosis and other conditions while working as a fabricator, cutter, polisher,  and installer of stone countertops. Declaration of Na Hyun Seo (“Seo Decl.”), ¶  2.  In discovery, Plaintiff alleged that Astonish  employed him as a stone countertop fabricator and installer from 2003 to 2021  and as a driver from 2021 to 2023. Seo Decl., ¶ 5. In response to that  information, Defendant subpoenaed any and all documents relating to Plaintiff  from Astonish. Seo Decl., ¶ 8. The records were due March 25, 2024. Despite  several timeline extensions, Astonish failed to produce any responsive  documents.  Seo Decl., ¶¶ 12-19.  Based on these facts, the Court finds good cause and  grants the motion to compel, assuming Defendant can establish that it served  this motion on Astonish.    C. Sanctions Defendant requests sanctions totaling $3,364.20.,  based on 14 hours of attorney's work at $225.00 per hour, .5 hours of  attorney's work at a rate of $300 per hour, and 1 $64.20 filing fee. Seo Decl.,  ¶ 20; Declaration of Angela V. Sayre, ¶ 4. Attorneys’ work is based on .5 hours  for meet and confer efforts, 10 hours spent drafting the motion and continued  meet and confer efforts, and an anticipated 4 hours replying to any opposition  and attending the hearing. Ibid. The motion is unopposed. The Court  grants sanctions totaling $2,464.20, based on 10.5 hours of attorneys’ work and  the filing fee, again, assuming proof of the motion is established.   CONCLUSION Once Defendant provides proof of service of the motion  on Astonish, the motion to compel third-party deponent Astonish Inc. to comply  with a deposition subpoena for records, filed by Defendant Dal-Tile  Distribution, LLC, is granted. Astonish Inc. is ordered to produce the  requested records within 30 days of the hearing on this motion.  Defendant’s request for sanctions is granted.  Astonish Inc. is ordered to pay Defendant Dal-Tile  Distribution, LLC $2,464.20 in sanctions within 30 days of the hearing on the  motion. Defendant Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC, to give notice.  Defendant Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC is ordered to  file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.