 Case Number:  22STCV37000    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Plaintiffs’
Motion for Trial Preference
 
The Court’s ruling on Plaintiffs’ Motion for Trial Preference is deferred pending
hearing and argument.  
 
BACKGROUND
Maria Del Socorro Sanchez-Quezada, as
guardian ad litem of her minor daughters, Alondra Gonzalez, Candelaria
Gonzalez, and Blanca Lizeth Virgen Sanchez, and in that representative
capacity, as successor in interest of decedent, Juan Rodrigo Gonzalez-Morin
(Decedent), brings this action against 67 named defendants and doe
defendants 68-100 alleging that Decedent died as a result of died
from silicosis caused by his occupational exposure to silica-containing
products.
The Causes of Action Are: (1) Negligence; (2) Strict Liability - 
Warning Defect; (3) Strict Liability - 
Design Defect; (4) Fraudulent 
Concealment; and (5) Breach Of Implied 
Warranties.
 
The motion now before the Court is Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Trial Preference.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (b) states that, "[a]
civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be
entitled to preference upon the motion of any party to the action who is under
14 years of age unless the court finds that the party does not have a
substantial interest in the case as a whole." Section 36, subdivision (b)
is mandatory. Peters v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224. 
ANALYSIS
 
I. Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Burden
Plaintiffs
seek to exercise the trial preference on the basis that Plaintiff’s Alondra
Gonzalez and Candelaria Gonzalez (“Plaintiffs”), are under the age of 14 (ages
6 and 9).
While some
Defendants concede that the Plaintiffs are under the age of 14, others argue
Plaintiffs have not met their evidentiary burden of showing that they meet the
requirements of section 36, subdivision (b). Edgebanding Services Inc.’s
Opposition at p. 2.
In support
of their motion, Plaintiffs submitted a declaration of their attorney, Jason M.
Rose, attesting that the attached Exhibits A and B are true and accurate copies
of Plaintiffs’ birth certificates. However, because the photographs attached as
Exhibits A and B are not themselves certified copies of Plaintiffs’ birth
certificates, they are not self-authenticating. See Evid. Code, § 1401
(requiring authentication before a writing or evidence of its contents may be
received into evidence); Evid. Code, § 1452 (describing the presumption of
authenticity of the seal of a public entity).  Moreover, because Plaintiff’s counsel lacks
personal knowledge his declaration as to the Plaintiffs’ ages is inadmissible. See
Evid. Code, § 702; see also Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2020) 12:247.2-12:247.3.
Because
Plaintiffs have presented no admissible evidence, they have failed to establish
the factual pre-requisites under Section 36, subdivision (b). If proffered, the
Court will accept admissible evidence to establish the age of the Plaintiffs at
the hearing.  
 
II. Due
Process
Defendants
argue that granting Plaintiffs’ motion will deny them due process because they
will not have sufficient time to conduct discovery, move for summary judgment,
or otherwise prepare for trial.  
Plaintiffs
argue that the statutory right to trial preference is mandatory and does not
permit the Court to balance the parties’ interests where the statutory
requirements are met.  
“‘Thus,
relevant precedent upholds the absolute command of section 36(a) in light of
its plain meaning, despite recognition that in certain instances there are
strong countervailing considerations—deriving … from fairness and due process
to other litigants …. Pabla v. Superior Court of Merced County (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 599, 604, fn. 5 (quoting Miller, supra, 221 Cal.App.3d at
pp. 1205–1206). “‘Section 36(a) is a comprehensive and final legislative
judgment on the issue, which must prevail whenever the section 36(a) right is
juxtaposed to another countervailing argument, based on whatever legitimate or
seemingly compelling public interest.’” Ibid. 
The case
law is clear that the court lacks discretion to deny a motion for trial
preference where the requirements of section 36 subdivision (b) are met.  In establishing the trial preference right,
the legislature has conclusively resolved all competing public interests in
favor of the party asserting the right.  
III.
Substantial Interest
There is
no merit to the argument advanced by some of the Defendants that the Plaintiffs
lack a substantial interest in the case because they are minors who cannot
manage the prosecution of their claim or any money that is recovered.
Defendants provide no citable authority for this proposition, which would
amount to an invalidation of section 36 subdivision, (b), which only applies to
children under the age of 14.  
IV.
Failure to Prosecute
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs have been dilatory in their efforts to move the case
along and should have brought this motion sooner. Citing Landry v. Berryessa Union School Dist. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 691 (Laundry),
Defendants argue Plaintiffs have forfeited their right to exercise the trial
preference.  
Defendants’ reliance on Landry
is misplaced. There, the court held that “where the plaintiff has been
dilatory in efforts to move the case along … the trial court retains
jurisdiction to dismiss under section 583.410 et seq.” Id. 697. Here,
Defendants have not filed a motion to dismiss for delay in prosecution.
V. Essential Parties
Some Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs motion should be denied because not all essential parties have been
served with process or appeared. Specifically, they argue that there are defendants
added or to be added by cross-complaint have yet to be served.  
Section 36, subdivision
(c)(1) provides “A party may file and serve a motion for preference supported
by a declaration of the moving party that all essential parties have been
served with process or have appeared.” 
“Essential parties” is not defined. 

In the absence of a statutory
definition, the Court concludes that “essential parties” is roughly synonymous
with indispensable and conditionally necessary parties described in Code of
civil Procedure section 389. Defendants have not provided any evidence that any
of the cross-defendants who have yet to be served are essential to afford
complete relief to the parties. Courts interpreting the “essential party”
requirement under former Rule 209 of the California Rules of Court, held that the
bankruptcy of one co-defendant did not preclude plaintiff from proceeding to
trial against the remaining defendants. Maximum Tech. v. Superior Court (1987)
188 Cal.App.3d 935, 938. Under California’s comparative negligence regime, Defendants
are permitted to argue that non-parties are responsible for plaintiffs’ injury.
Therefore, the unserved cross-defendants here are not essential just because
they may have contributed to plaintiffs’ injury.
 
However, there are several named defendants who Plaintiffs have not
served. The Court would like Plaintiffs to clarify if they intend to dismiss
these Defendants from the case or otherwise explain why these defendants are
not essential.    


CONCLUSION
The Court defers its order pending
the hearing on the motion to determine if Plaintiffs have admissable evidence of
the Plaintiffs’ age, and whether Plaintiffs intend to dismiss named defendants
that have yet to be served.   
 



 