 Case Number:  24STCV09758    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DAVID ALEXANDER,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,          
            vs.
 
JAMES DOLBACK, an individual, and DOES 1
  through 5, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV09758
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF
  ISSUES RE PLAINTIFF’S FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT 
 
Date: October 23, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
DAVID ALEXANDER (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition has been
filed.  Any opposition to the motion was
required to have been served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the
noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(2).)   
 
BACKGROUND
             This case arises from an alleged breach of a
loan agreement where Plaintiff provided a monetary loan to Defendant James
Dolback (“Dolback”), who subsequently failed to repay the loan as agreed.  On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint (“Complaint”) asserting causes of action for breach of contract,
fraud, conversion and unjust enrichment. 
On May 28, 2024, Defendant filed an answer (“Answer”).  
 
            On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues Re Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract (the “Motion”).  No opposition has been filed.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following: (1) Defendant’s
Answer (Exh. 2); (2) Plaintiff’s Complaint (Exh. 3.); and (3) Massachusetts
General Laws, Part III, Title II, Chapter 231, § 6C (Exh. 4).  The requests are GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452(b),(d): “(b) regulations and
legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of ... any public
entity in the United States”; and “(d) records of ... any court of this
state...”)
 
DISCUSSION
            The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c).)  “The function of the
pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A
plaintiff moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action.  Once
the plaintiff ... has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant ...
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.  The
defendant … shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth
the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “[A]
plaintiff bears the burden of persuasion that ‘each element of’ the ‘cause of
action’ in question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that ‘there is no defense’
thereto.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal. 4th at p. 850, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).)”
 
Breach
of Contract
“To establish a cause of action for breach
of contract, the plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the
contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Maxwell
v. Dolezal (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98 [internal citation omitted].) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff presents the following undisputed material facts based on Plaintiff’s
testimony and documentary evidence, as well as on Defendant’s own admissions as
set forth in his Answer: (1) Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a loan agreement,
which was memorialized in a Promissory Note (“Note”) executed on or about
January 22, 2024.  (Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material facts [“UMF”] No. 2); (2) Plaintiff provided
Defendant with the agreed upon loan principal of $115,000.00, and performed all
of his obligations pursuant to the Note (UMF No. 3); (3) The Note called for
repayment of the loan in full by February 5, 2024, but Defendant has not repaid
Plaintiff any amount on the $115,000 loan principal, nor any interest thereon
(UMF No. 4,5); and (4) Plaintiff suffered damages as a result, including the loss
of the $115,000 he loaned to Defendant which Defendant failed to repay with interest,
and attorneys’ fees and costs associated with this lawsuit to collect from
Defendant (UMF Nos. 6-11).
 
Plaintiff has met his burden of showing the
existence of each element for the cause of action for breach of loan.  The burden now shifts to Defendant to show a
triable issue of material fact.  Defendant,
however, has presented no evidence to controvert the facts as presented by
Plaintiff, and in fact made admissions in his Answer supporting the elements of
a breach of contract as alleged and established by Plaintiff. 
 
Given that the Motion is unopposed, Defendant has
not met his burden of showing a triable issue of material fact.  Moreover, because Defendant failed to oppose
the Motion, Defendant has conceded to the arguments raised therein, as
“[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned
argument and citations to authority.”  (Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  As such, Defendant has not met his burden in
showing the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to a cause of
action or defense thereto.   
 
            Accordingly, the
Court finds there are no triable issues of material fact and Plaintiff is
entitled, as a matter of law, to summary adjudication on his first cause of
action for breach of contract.
 
RULING
Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 23rd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



