 Case Number:  24STCP00779    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BARRY THOMPSON,
  an individual, and NIJOLE THOMPSON, an individual, 
                        Petitioners,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL CHU, aka MICHAEL TUAN
CHU, an individual, DANNA BALLARD, aka
  DANNA LEE BALLARD, an individual, and DOES 1 to 10,
                                                                             
  
                        Respondents.         
                      


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCP00779
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PETITION TO CONFIRM CONTRACTUAL ARBITRATION
  AWARD
 
Date: October 23, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioners
BARRY THOMPSON and NIJOLE THOMPSON (“Petitioners”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The court considered the moving
papers filed in connection with this petition. No opposition to the petition
was filed.
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arose from a dispute regarding the
sale of the property located at 10440-10446 Hebron Lane in Los Angeles,
California (the “Property”) pursuant to a purchase agreement (“Purchase
Agreement”) between Petitioners as buyers and Respondents Michael Chu (“Chu”) and
Danna Ballard (“Ballard”) (collectively, (“Respondents”) as sellers.  (Amended Petition Confirm Arbitration Award, Exh.
A.)  Petitioners allege that Respondents
breached the Purchase Agreement and did not complete the sale of the Property.  The matter was arbitrated as required by the
terms of the Purchase Agreement.  
 
            After the first phase of a
bifurcated arbitration proceeding, the arbitrator issued a Partial Final Award on
December 7, 2023, granting Petitioners possession of the property and ordered specific
performance regarding the sale of the Property. 
(Id., Exh. B.)  On February
14, 2024, following the second phase of the proceedings, the arbitrator issued a
final Partial Final Award confirming the previous possession and specific
performance decisions and included a monetary award of $70,059.38 in damages, prevailing
party attorneys’ fees amounting to $116,125 and costs of $44,805.82 in favor of
Petitioners and against Respondents, who are jointly and severally liable.  (Id., Exh. C.)
 
Petitioners
moved to confirm the arbitration award by filing the instant petition to
confirm the arbitration award against Respondents on March 13, 2024.  On March 14, 2024, Petitioners filed a Notice
of Stay of Proceedings, notifying this Court of the bankruptcy proceeding filed
by Ballard in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah, Case
No. 24-21077 (“Bankruptcy Case”).  Chu
has not filed for bankruptcy.  
 
On
August 13, 2024, Petitioners filed an Amended Petition to Confirm Arbitration
Award.  Petitioners aver that the court
in the Bankruptcy Case granted Ballard a discharge, lifting the automatic stay
on this case.  (Id., Exh. E.)  Petitioners now ask this Court for
confirmation of only the portions of the Arbitration Award which were not
discharged in the Bankruptcy Case.  
 
DISCUSSION
            An arbitration award is not
directly enforceable until it is confirmed by a court and judgment is
entered.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.6; Jones
v. Kvistad (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 836, 840.) 
 A party may seek a court judgment
confirming an arbitration award by filing and serving a petition at least 10
days, but no more than four years after the award is served.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.)
 
“Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition shall name as respondents all
parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound
by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.)  “A petition under this chapter shall: (a) Set
forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate
unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. (b) Set forth
the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the
award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)  “If a petition or response under this chapter
is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made…unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)  Any response to the petition is required to be
filed and served within 10 days after service of the petition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.) 
 
The
Court finds that Petitioners have established that the procedural requirements
have been met.  There being no response,
the Court finds that the arbitration award is proper to confirm. “If [an] award
is confirmed, judgment must be entered in conformity therewith.” (Jones,
supra.) 
 
In
view of the bankruptcy discharge granted to Ballard, the monetary award is confirmed
only as against Chu, but not against Ballard. 
(Hurley v. Bredehorn (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1700 [a bankruptcy
discharge voids judgments to the extent they determine the debtor's personal
liability].)  The award for specific
performance, however, is not a claim within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Code,
as it does not give rise to the payment of money.  (In Re Ter Bush (273 B.R. 625,
628-629.)  Accordingly, the arbitration award
with respect to specific performance for the completion of the sale of the
Property is confirmed as against both Respondents.
 
RULING
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants Petitioner’s petition to confirm arbitration
award.  The Court enters judgment for
possession and specific performance against both Respondents, jointly and
severally, as well as judgment in the total amount of $230,990.20 as against
Chu.
 
Petitioner
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 23rd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



