 Case Number:  23SMCV04489    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrers are SUSTAINED IN PART AND OVERRULED IN
PART.  Plaintiffs filed this breach of
insurance contract case against their carrier. 
Plaintiffs allege that they had a policy that covered the period from
February 13, 2023 to February 14, 2024. 
And, sure enough, plaintiffs had an incident during that period
(September 9, 2023) that was allegedly covered by the policy.  Of course, there’s a complication.  Plaintiffs had enrolled in an automatic
renewal program the carrier had offered. 
Under that program, plaintiffs had pre-authorized premium payments to be
made so as to renew the policy without the need for plaintiffs to take any
affirmative action.  Allegedly
unbeknownst to plaintiffs, however, the carrier discontinued the program.  As a result, the carrier did not collect the
premium and the policy lapsed. 
Plaintiffs allege that they never received any notices warning them that
the program had been discontinued, that the renewal premium had not been paid,
or that the policy was about to lapse. 
However, the carrier nonetheless denied coverage on the basis that the
policy had lapsed.  Plaintiffs sue.  The carrier demurs to the third, fourth, and
fifth causes of action.  The demurrers
are SUSTAINED.
The third and fourth causes of action are for fraud and
negligent misrepresentation, respectively. 
The alleged fraud seems to be that defendants had no intention of
honoring the automatic renewal program and intended to discontinue the program
so that they could reject claims when made. 
The court simply cannot accept that chain of reasoning, at least as to
intentional fraud.  While it is true that
the specificity standards are somewhat lax for purposes of alleging scienter
than for alleging the details of the mis-statement, there still have to be
facts alleged that, if true, would lead to a reasonable inference that
the statement was knowingly false when made. 
Otherwise, while the statement might turn out to be false, it is not
fraud.  Here, under plaintiff’s logic,
the carrier’s intent was to create a program whereby premiums would be
automatically collected, but all along planned to discontinue the policy and
not collect premiums so that they could reject any claims that might be
made.  That just makes no sense.  Insurance companies are in the business
of collecting premiums.  That is how they
make money.  It simply beggars reason to
believe that a carrier would lie about collecting money because it secretly had
no intention of collecting premiums. 
That might make sense if there were an allegation that plaintiffs posed
some kind of unusual risk but that there was some reason that the carrier was
legally obligated to renew the policy without a premium increase.  But there are no such facts alleged and the court
is aware of no law that would required the carrier to renew a policy with no
increase based upon an unusual risk.  The
court would feel differently if the carrier had allegedly collected the premium
and then attempted to disclaim the policy after the claim was made, but that,
too, is not alleged.  The bottom line is
that plaintiffs’ inference is counter-logical. 
Another problem is that plaintiffs do not allege when the promise was
made.  If the promise was made on day one
and on day two the program was terminated, the court might be able to at least
draw some inference of some kind (although even that would be somewhat
problematic).  However, it could well be
that the automatic renewal policy was in effect for years before it was
terminated, which would lead almost inexorably to the conclusion that there was
no fraud.
Because plaintiffs have not alleged facts that, if true,
would give rise to a reasonable inference of scienter, the demurrer to the
third cause of action is SUSTAINED.  The
question is harder as to the fourth cause of action, as intent is not
required.  However, without knowing when
the promise was made regarding the automatic renewal, it is impossible to say
whether even a reasonable inference of negligence is proper.  As stated above, if the program was
terminated a very short time after the promise was made, it could well be that
even making the promise was negligent—at least an inference could be
drawn.  But if the program had been in
effect for years after the promise was made, then even a reasonable inference
of negligence would not lie.  Because
negligent misrepresentation requires specific pleading, the demurrer as to this
cause of action is also SUSTAINED.  In
both cases the court will give plaintiff leave to amend, but as to the third
cause of action the court really cannot see how the fault can be cured.
The fifth cause of action is for declaratory relief.  Plaintiffs contend that there is an actual
controversy over whether the policy is (or was) in force.  Frankly, the court has its doubts as to this
cause of action given that the question will almost certainly be decided in
deciding the first two causes of action—neither of which is challenged in the
demurrer.  (Actually, the demurrer says
it attacks the second cause of action, but in reading the memorandum, it is
plain that this is a clerical error.)  While
the court is of the view that this cause of action will become moot, it does no
harm at this time and the court will therefore OVERRULE the demurrer.  In the event it is really superfluous, then
no one need worry about it.  If for some
reason it is not, then it is a good thing it is still in the case.
Plaintiffs have 30 days’ leave to amend.
 
 