 Case Number:  22SMCV00598    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to seal. 
The court has reviewed the papers and will try here not to reveal any
confidential material or purportedly confidential material.  
In the last round of demurrers, the court sustained the
demurrer of one carrier without leave to amend, but gave plaintiff leave to
amend as to the other.  Plaintiff has
filed a third amended complaint in an attempt to cure the defects identified by
the court.  Plaintiff seeks to file a
redacted version in the public domain, but to file the unredacted version under
seal.  Plaintiff contends that the
redacted portions discuss private medical issues relating to Spacey, a third
party in this litigation (although a central figure).  According to plaintiff, the information that
is being redacted is similar in nature to information redacted during the
demurrer hearings.  Defendant objects.  According to defendant, a lot has changed
since the last demurrer.  Defendant now
contends that plaintiff and Spacey have made a deal in which they have agreed
to freeze Spacey’s appeal from an arbitration award in return for Spacey’s full
cooperation here, including giving plaintiff access to his personal medical
information.  Defendant claims that much
of the information in the redaction portion of the complaint is already in the
public domain and is not actually medical information but only allegations as
to medical information, and thus should not be sealed.  In reply, plaintiff states that the material
is confidential and that it has made the showing required by law.
The court has reviewed the redactions and has the following
tentative thoughts.  Paragraph 6 ought
not be redacted as it states nothing new. 
The same is true of paragraph 9. 
The introduction to paragraph 10 is also not confidential.  However, the sub-paragraphs do seem to
include confidential medical information concerning Spacey.  The court agrees that these are only
allegations, but they purport to come from Spacey and his medical records and
thus the court believes there is enough here to trigger Spacey’s privacy
rights.  The first part of paragraph 11
seems confidential up to a particular word on the first line of page 5.  Paragraph 27 seems to already be in the
public record.  Paragraph 29 appears
confidential.  Paragraph 30 does not seem
to be confidential, nor are paragraphs 31, 34, and 45.  The court believes the first and second
sentences of paragraph 46 are confidential, as is the information starting
after the parenthetical on line 18 of the following page until the last
sentence of that paragraph.  Paragraph 47
appears confidential.  The redactions in
paragraph 52 appear confidential.  The
second sentence through the penultimate sentence of paragraph 53 appear
confidential.  Paragraphs 54, 55, and 61
are not confidential.  The court will
discuss the first part of paragraph 68, but the last part is not confidential.  Paragraph 69 might be confidential and the
court will discuss it.  Paragraph 70
appears confidential.  Paragraph 72 is
not confidential.  The court is unsure
about paragraph 74 and will discuss it.
As a general rule, if the information repeats information
already in the public record, the court does not view it as confidential.  The court is sympathetic to defendant’s need
for care in demurring to the complaint so as not to reveal sealed or
confidential information, but the court has confidence that defendant will
exercise caution.
Finally, the court notes that little of this information
will likely remain confidential if the case progresses very far.  Plaintiff should be aware that if the
complaint survives demurrer, the public’s interest (legitimate) will grow as
this information becomes more central to the court’s decision-making.  Further, if the case goes to trial, the court
is very unlikely to seal off the courtroom and hold the trial in camera.  But that is for another day.