  Case Number:  22STCV17683    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, reply, and supplemental papers, the Court
rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 27, 2022, Plaintiffs Puneh Kitchen, Jonathan Kitchen, and Jesse Kitchen
filed this action against Defendants Tesla, Inc., Tesla Energy Operations,
Inc., and Does 1-100 for general negligence. 
On
November 28, 2022, Defendants Tesla, Inc. and Tesla Energy Operations, Inc.
(“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
June 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel Thomas G. Stolpman (“Stolpman” or
“Plaintiffs’ counsel”) did not appear at the final status conference.  Based on the parties’ stipulation, the Court
continued the trial and extended motion and discovery deadlines. 
On
September 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel did not appear at the continued final
status conference.  The Court ordered
Stolpman Law Group to pay $250.00 in sanctions to the Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles by 09/30/2024 pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 177.5 for failure to comply with the 8th Amended General
Standing Order to be ready for the final status conference pursuant to Sections
12 & 15. 
On
October 1, 2024, the day set for trial, Plaintiffs’ counsel phoned the Court at
8:35 a.m. saying he would not appear in the courtroom until 9:30 a.m.  Plaintiffs’ counsel appeared in the courtroom
at 9:36 a.m. but did not have the exhibit binders.  The Court continued the trial to October 2,
2024, ordered counsel to bring all trial and exhibit binders to the courtroom
on the trial date, and ordered all counsel to appear personally in the
courtroom at 8:30 a.m.  The Court stated
that if counsel are late or fail to appear the case may be dismissed.  The Court admonished Plaintiffs’ counsel that
the case would be dismissed if he was late again. 
On
October 2, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant Tesla, Inc. with prejudice at
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s request.  The Court
continued the trial to October 21, 2024 because no trial courtrooms were
available.  The Court repeated its
admonition that if counsel were late or failed to appear the case could be
dismissed. 
On
October 9, 2024, Defendant Tesla Energy Operations, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed a
motion for sanctions against Plaintiffs’ counsel.  The motion asked the Court to impose
sanctions of $16,587.22 on Plaintiffs’ counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 128.5 and 575.2 based on counsel’s “actions on September 18, 2024 and
on October 1, 2024.”  The motion was set
for hearing on November 5, 2024. 
On
October 21, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel phoned the Court at 8:30 a.m. to say he
would be in the courtroom shortly.  By
9:05 a.m., Plaintiffs’ counsel had not appeared.  The Court dismissed the case without
prejudice at Defendant’s counsel’s oral request. 
On
October 30, 2024, Defendant filed another motion for sanctions against
Plaintiffs’ counsel.  The motion was set
for hearing on December 3, 2024.  On
November 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  On November 22, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply.  The Court continued the hearing
to December 9, 2024.  On January 2, 2025,
Plaintiffs filed another opposition.  On
January 10, 2025, Defendant filed a supplemental brief. 
On
November 5, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s October 9, 2024 motion for
sanctions based on Plaintiffs’ counsel’s failures to appear ready for
trial.  The Court awarded Defendant
$3,630.00 and ordered Plaintiffs’ counsel to pay Defendant this amount within
30 days. 
On
December 2, 2024, the Court entered judgment in favor of Defendant and against
Plaintiffs. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to impose $15,325.90 on Plaintiffs’ counsel under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 128.5 and 575.2 based on counsel’s October 21, 2024 actions. 
Plaintiffs
dispute the reasonableness of the sanctions amount which Defendant is
requesting. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.5 provides in part: 
“(a) A trial court may order a party, the party’s
attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith,
that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. This section
also applies to judicial arbitration proceedings under Chapter 2.5 (commencing
with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of Part 3. 
“(b) For purposes of this section: 
(1) “Actions or tactics” include, but are not limited
to, the making or opposing of motions or the filing and service of a complaint,
cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading. The mere filing of a
complaint without service thereof on an opposing party does not constitute
“actions or tactics” for purposes of this section. 
“(2) “Frivolous” means totally and completely without
merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party. 
“(c) Expenses pursuant to this section shall not be
imposed except on notice contained in a party’s moving or responding papers or,
on the court’s own motion, after notice and opportunity to be heard. An order
imposing expenses shall be in writing and shall recite in detail the action or
tactic or circumstances justifying the order. 
* * *
 “(f) Sanctions ordered pursuant to this section shall
be ordered pursuant to the following conditions and procedures: 
(1) If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to
respond, the court issues an order pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may,
subject to the conditions stated below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the
party, the party’s attorneys, or both, for an action or tactic described in
subdivision (a). In determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the
court shall consider whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due
diligence. 
“(A) A motion for sanctions under this section shall
be made separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the
specific alleged action or tactic, made in bad faith, that is frivolous or
solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. 
“(B) If the alleged action or tactic is the making or
opposing of a written motion or the filing and service of a complaint,
cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or
appropriately corrected, a notice of motion shall be served as provided in
Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court, unless 21
days after service of the motion or any other period as the court may
prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is not withdrawn or appropriately
corrected. 
“(C) If warranted, the court may award to the party
prevailing on the motion the reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred
in presenting or opposing the motion. Absent exceptional circumstances, a law
firm shall be held jointly responsible for violations committed by its
partners, associates, and employees. 
“(D) If the alleged action or tactic is the making or
opposing of a written motion or the filing and service of a complaint,
cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or
appropriately corrected, the court on its own motion may enter an order
describing the specific action or tactic, made in bad faith, that is frivolous
or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay, and direct an attorney, law
firm, or party to show cause why it has made an action or tactic as defined in subdivision
(b), unless, within 21 days of service of the order to show cause, the
challenged action or tactic is withdrawn or appropriately corrected. 
“(2) An order for sanctions pursuant to this section
shall be limited to what is sufficient to deter repetition of the action or
tactic or comparable action or tactic by others similarly situated. Subject to
the limitations in subparagraphs (A) and (B), the sanction may consist of, or
include, directives of a nonmonetary nature, an order to pay a penalty into
court, or, if imposed on motion and warranted for effective deterrence, an
order directing payment to the movant of some or all of the reasonable attorney’s
fees and other expenses incurred as a direct result of the action or tactic
described in subdivision (a). 
“(A) Monetary sanctions may not be awarded against a
represented party for a violation of presenting a claim, defense, and other
legal contentions that are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law. 
“(B) Monetary sanctions may not be awarded on the
court’s motion unless the court issues its order to show cause before a
voluntary dismissal or settlement of the claims made by or against the party
that is, or whose attorneys are, to be sanctioned. 
“(g) A motion for sanctions brought by a party or a
party’s attorney primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to
cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation, shall
itself be subject to a motion for sanctions. It is the intent of the
Legislature that courts shall vigorously use its sanction authority to deter
the improper actions or tactics or comparable actions or tactics of others
similarly situated. 
“(h) The liability imposed by this section is in
addition to any other liability imposed by law for acts or omissions within the
purview of this section. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subds. (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h).)
          Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2 provides: 
“(a) Local rules promulgated pursuant to Section 575.1
may provide that if any counsel, a party represented by counsel, or a party if
in pro se, fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof, the court on
motion of a party or on its own motion may strike out all or any part of any
pleading of that party, or, dismiss the action or proceeding or any part
thereof, or enter a judgment by default against that party, or impose other
penalties of a lesser nature as otherwise provided by law, and may order that
party or his or her counsel to pay to the moving party the reasonable expenses
in making the motion, including reasonable attorney fees. No penalty may be
imposed under this section without prior notice to, and an opportunity to be
heard by, the party against whom the penalty is sought to be imposed.” 
“(b) It is the intent of the Legislature that if a
failure to comply with these rules is the responsibility of counsel and not of
the party, any penalty shall be imposed on counsel and shall not adversely
affect the party’s cause of action or defense thereto.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 575.2.) 
“If
a judge of a court adopts a rule that applies solely to cases in that judge's
courtroom, or a particular branch or district of a court adopts a rule that
applies solely to cases in that particular branch or district of a court, the
court shall publish these rules as part of the general publication of rules
required by the California Rules of Court. . . . Individual judges’ rules and
branch and district rules are local rules of court for purposes of this
section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 575.1, subd. (c).) 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order provides in part: 
“Failure To Comply with Final Status Conference
Obligations: The PI Hub Courts have the discretion to require any party or
counsel of record who fails or refuses to comply with this Standing Order to
show cause why the court should not impose monetary, evidentiary, and/or issue
sanctions (including the entry of a default or the striking of an answer) (Code
of Civil Procedure, section 575.2).” (Eighth Amended Standing Order ¶ 12D.) 
The
Standing Order also states: “On the trial date, all parties and/or their
trial counsel must appear in person with trial and exhibit binders in the PI
Hub Court assigned to the case.” (Eighth Amended Standing Order ¶ 14.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Jurisdiction 
“A
dismissal terminates an action. [Citation.] 
The dismissal of an entire action deprives the court of subject matter
jurisdiction of the matter, as well as of personal jurisdiction over the
parties.”  (Estate of Garrett
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 831, 838 [trial court dismissed case for failure to
prosecute].) 
“Notwithstanding
this general principle, ‘courts have carved out a number of exceptions to this
rule in order to give meaning and effect to a former party’s statutory rights.’
” (Pittman v. Beck Park Apartments Ltd. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1009, 1022
(Pittman), quoting Frank Annino & Sons Construction, Inc. v.
McArthur Restaurants, Inc. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 353, 356 (Frank Annino).)
 “When a postdismissal or postjudgment
motion involves collateral statutory rights, then the court may retain
jurisdiction to determine and enforce those rights.” (Ibid.) 
A
court retains jurisdiction after a dismissal and after judgment to decide
motions for sanctions. (See Pittman, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p.
1022; see Day v. Collingwood (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1126 [“[w]e
conclude the trial court had jurisdiction to consider Collingwood’s
postjudgment motion for sanctions”]; Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 967, 976 [same]; West Coast Development v. Reed (1992) 2
Cal.App.4th 693, 706 [same]; Frank Annino, supra, 215 Cal.App.3d at
pp. 358-359 [same].) 
Here,
the Court dismissed the complaint and entered judgment against Plaintiffs.  Nonetheless, the Court may exercise its
jurisdiction to consider the motion to award sanctions against Plaintiffs’
counsel. 
B.   Defendant’s sanctions request 
Defendant
asks the Court to impose sanctions on Plaintiff’s counsel due to his “pattern
and practice of arriving unprepared to commence trial” and failing to appear timely
on the day of trial.  (Motion p. 7.)  Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s counsel’s
conduct caused Defendant “to incur numerous expenses associated with having its
trial counsel and appellate counsel prepared and ready for trial” on October
21, 2024.  (Motion p. 7.) 
The
Court has already awarded Defendant sanctions based on Plaintiff’s counsel’s actions
on September 18, 2024 and October 1, 2024. 
In addition, Defendant has not established that Plaintiff’s counsel
acted with subjective bad faith when he arrived late to trial on October 21,
2024.  The Court therefore denies Defendant's request for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5.
Plaintiff’s
counsel did not comply with the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order when he failed
to appear for trial at 8:30 a.m. on October 21, 2024. However, Defendant would
have incurred expenses to prepare for and attend the trial set for October 21,
2024 even if Plaintiff’s counsel had arrived on time.  Defendant has not shown that it incurred any
additional expenses as the result of Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct on October
21, 2024. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendant Tesla Energy Operations, Inc. to impose
sanctions on counsel for Plaintiffs Puneh Kitchen, Jonathan Kitchen, and Jesse
Kitchen filed on October 30, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.