 Case Number:  22STCV28302    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers and notice of non-opposition, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
August 30, 2022, Plaintiffs Irmeh Manouki-Massihi (“Manouki-Massihi”),
Vana Mehrabian (“Vana Mehrabian”),
and Shara Mehrabian (“Shara
Mehrabian”) filed this action against Defendants
City of Commerce (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), Southern
California Edison, and Does 1-50 for negligence, wrongful death, negligent
infliction of emotional distress, survival action, and SB 447. 
On
October 11, 2022, Defendant Southern California Edison Company (erroneously
sued as Southern California Edison) (“Edison”) filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Kafil
Construction (“Construction”), Bruce Johan Kafil, doing business as Kafil Construction
(“Bruce Kafil”), Lotus LA, LLC (“Lotus”), and Roes 1-10 for equitable indemnity,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
On December 30, 2022, Construction, Bruce Kafil, and Lotus filed an answer to
Edison’s cross-complaint.  On December
26, 2023, Edison amended its cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant City as
Roe 1.  On February 6, 2024, the City
filed an answer to Edison’s cross-complaint. 
On
October 12, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendants
Construction as Doe 1, Bruce Kafil as Doe 2, and Lotus as Doe 3. 
Also
on October 12, 2022, the City and County filed answers to Plaintiffs’
complaint. 
On
June 9, 2023, Construction, Bruce Kafil, and Lotus filed an answer to Plaintiffs’
complaint and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Edison and Does 51-60
for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On July 25, 2023, Edison filed an answer to
the cross-complaint. 
On
November 21, 2023, the City filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Edison, Construction, Bruce Kafil, Lotus, and Roes 1-50 for equitable contribution,
implied indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On December 26, 2023, Edison filed an answer to the City’s
cross-complaint.  On December 28, 2023,
Construction, Bruce Kafil, and Lotus filed an answer to the City’s cross-complaint. 
On
January 5, 2024, the Court dismissed the County from Plaintiffs’ complaint
without prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
August 16, 2024, Edison filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  The
motion was set for hearing on March 13, 2025. 
On
January 16, 2025, Department 1 found that this case (case number 22STCV28302)
and case number 23STCV22007 are related within the meaning of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.300(a).  Case number 22STCV28302
became the lead case.  Department 1 assigned
the cases to Department 28 at the Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 23, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On
September 6, 2024, Edison filed a motion for leave to amend its cross-complaint
and to specially set the hearing on Edison’s motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, to continue the trial. 
The motion was set for hearing on October 28, 2024.  On October 15, 2024, Construction, Bruce Kafil, and
Lotus filed a notice of non-opposition to Edison’s motion to amend its
cross-complaint.  The Court continued the
hearing to January 17, 2025. 
On
January 14, 2025, Edison filed a notice withdrawing its request to specially
set a hearing on its motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, to
continue the trial. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Edison
asks the Court to grant it leave to amend its cross-complaint. 
Construction, Bruce Kafil, and Lotus do not oppose the request. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiffs’ complaint 
Plaintiffs’
complaint includes the following allegations against Defendants City, County, Edison,
and Does 1-50: 
On
January 13, 2022, Varaj Mehrabian parked his vehicle in an alley in front of
4202 East Pacific Way, City of Commerce, State of California. As a result of Defendants’
negligence, electrical generators and a pole fell on Varaj Mehrabian’s vehicle.  The force of impact caused Varaj Mehrabian’s
head to strike the ceiling of the vehicle’s passenger compartment.  Varaj Mehrabian sustained severe brain injury
and passed away. 
B.   Edison’s cross-complaint 
Edison’s
cross-complaint filed October 11, 2022 (as amended to include City as a cross-defendant)
includes the following allegations against Cross-Defendants Construction, Bruce Kafil,
Lotus, City, and Roes 2-10: 
On
or about August 30, 2022, Manouki-Massihi, Vana Mehrabian, and Shara Mehrabian
(“Plaintiffs”) brought suit alleging that the City, County, and Edison are
liable to Plaintiffs for damages arising out of an incident where a pole and a
generator fell on Varaj Mehrabian’s vehicle on January 13, 2022.  Edison denies that it is liable to Plaintiffs. 
If
Plaintiffs suffered or sustained any damages, either as alleged in Plaintiffs’ complaint
or at all, Cross-Defendants’ reckless, careless, and unlawful acts and
omissions caused or contributed to the damages. 
If Edison
is found liable to Plaintiffs or to anyone else as a result of the incidents
and occurrences alleged in the complaint, that liability will be predicated
solely on Edison’s passive and secondary negligence, which Edison denies, or
from an obligation imposed on Edison by law and resulting solely from Cross-Defendants' active and primary negligence. 
The
cross-complaint asserts claims for equitable indemnity, apportionment of fault,
and declaratory relief. 
C.   Edison’s motion to file a first amended
cross-complaint 
Edison
asks the Court for leave to amend its cross-complaint (1) to add Johan Kafil as
a cross-defendant and (2) to add new factual allegations “in support of Alter
Ego Liability and Vicarious Liability against newly named cross-defendant Johan
Kafil and defendant/cross-defendant Bruce Kafil.”  (Motion p. 2.)  Edison argues that it “only recently
discovered critical information establishing Johan Kafil and Bruce Kafil's
involvement with directing and controlling the construction and excavation work
that is the subject of Plaintiffs’ complaint.” 
(Motion p. 4.) 
Edison’s
proposed amendments are based on the same alleged facts giving rise to Plaintiffs’
complaint and Edison’s cross-complaint.  The
amendments would not prejudice the other parties.  Therefore, the Court grants Edison’s motion
for leave to file a first amended cross-complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and
Cross-Defendant Southern California Edison Company’s motion for leave to file
an amended cross-complaint.
  The Court orders Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and
Cross-Defendant Southern California Edison Company to file and serve its first
amended cross-complaint within 10
days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.