 Case Number:  23SMCV02142    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Hunter v. Burris,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02140
/ 23SMCV02142
MOTION:                  Motion
to Deem Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant, Post Bond
HEARING DATE:   2/2/2024

Legal Standard
 
Vexatious litigant statutes were created to counter the
abuse of the court system by “persistent and obsessive litigants.” (Bravo
v. Ismaj (2002), 99 Cal. App. 4th 211, 220-21.) Under CCP section 391
et seq., to counter a potential vexatious litigant, “a defendant may stay
pending litigation by moving to require a vexatious litigant to furnish
security if the court determines ‘there is not a reasonable probability’ the
plaintiff will prevail.  Failure to produce the ordered security results
in dismissal of the litigation in favor of the defendant.”  (Id. at
221; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 391.1, 391.4.) 
 
A vexatious litigant means a
person who does any of the following:  
 
(1) in the immediately preceding
seven-year period has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained in propria
persona at least five litigations other than in a small claims court that
have been (i) finally determined adversely to the person or (ii) unjustifiably
permitted to remain pending at least two years without having been brought to
trial or hearing;  
 
(2) After a litigation has been
finally determined against the person, repeatedly relitigates or attempts to
relitigate, in propria persona, either (i) the validity of the
determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined or (ii) the cause of action, claim,
controversy, or any of the issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by
the final determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined. 
 
(3) In any litigation while
acting in propria persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious motions,
pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other
tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. 
 
(4) Has previously been declared
to be a vexatious litigant by any state or federal court of record in any
action or proceeding based upon the same or substantially similar facts,
transaction, or occurrence.
 
(5) After being restrained
pursuant to a restraining order issued after a hearing pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Part 4 of Division 10 of the Family Code, and
while the restraining order is still in place, they commenced, prosecuted, or
maintained one or more litigations against a person protected by the
restraining order in this or any other court or jurisdiction that are
determined to be meritless and caused the person protected by the order to be
harassed or intimidated.
 
(CCP §391(b).)
 
            A plaintiff is entitled to a hearing
for their “right to oral argument and to present evidence” before the court
declares them vexatious and imposes security. (Bravo, 99 Cal.App.4th
223.) Any
determination that a litigant is vexatious must comport with the intent and
spirit of the vexatious litigant statute. (Morton v. Wagner (2007) 156
Cal. App. 4th 963, 970-971.) The purpose of which is to address the problem
created by the persistent and obsessive litigant who constantly has pending a
number of groundless actions and whose conduct causes serious financial results
to the unfortunate objects of his or her attacks and places an unreasonable
burden on the courts. (Id.) Therefore, to find that a litigant is
vexatious, the trial court must conclude that the litigants actions are
unreasonably impacting other parties and the Courts as contemplated by the
statute. (Id.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendants’ requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.
(Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is DENIED as to
request nos. 1-2 and GRANTED as to the remainder. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Darren Burris (23SMCV02140) and Defendant
Sierra Fino (23SMCV02142) separately move to declare Plaintiff James Hunter as
a vexatious litigant and require him to post a $25,000.00 security to cover the
expected attorneys’ fees. Defendants submit that Plaintiff should be declared a
vexatious litigant because he is the named defendant in the restraining order
issued in case 22SMR00115, which designates Fino and Burris as protected
persons from Hunter. (RJN Exs. 1-2.) Thus, Defendants seek to declare Plaintiff
a vexatious litigant under section 391(b)(5), which pertains to such
restraining orders.
 
Defendants demonstrate that they are protected persons
under the order, that Plaintiff is the restrained person, and that while the
order was in place, Plaintiff commenced these actions. However, this showing
alone is insufficient as a matter of law. Under section 391(b)(5), the instant actions need to have been
“determined to be meritless” and “caused the person protected by the order to
be harassed or intimidated.” This action has not been determined to be
meritless.  Additionally, Defendants cite no case
filed by plaintiff that was determined to be without merit. At best, Defendants
cite a dismissed small claims action against Fino. However, there was no
determination on the merits in that action, as it was dismissed without prejudice.
(Hunter Decl., ¶ 28.) Thus, the Court cannot infer that the small claims action
was frivolous or completely without merit. Furthermore, Defendants submit no declaration showing that
they were “harassed or intimidated” by the instant suits. Without this
evidence, the Court may not declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant.
 
Likewise, Defendants cite no litigation where Plaintiff, while
acting in propria persona, repeatedly filed unmeritorious motions,
pleadings, or other papers that were frivolous or solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay. (CCP § 391(b)(3).)
 
Defendants contend that the instant actions are without
merit, at least as to Fino, because Fino and Plaintiff entered into a
settlement agreement which may apply to this action. Defendants reason that
this action is meritless because it is embraced by a settlement agreement
entered into under case no. 22SMCV01181. (Glasco Decl., Ex. 3.)  Indeed, the terms of the release are
broad and may pertain to this action. The Release states: "It is the intention of the Parties to
settle and dispose of ...
any and all claims, potential claims, complaints, demands, and causes of action
... which may have arisen prior to the effective date of this Agreement and
Release [signed on October 13, 2022]." (Id.) The instant actions pertain to an incident that
occurred on April 22, 2022. Thus, Plaintiff could have brought these claims
with the prior complaints, or, at least was aware of the instant claims when
the settlement agreement was entered. However, it is not certain from the
record that the instant action was validly settled by Hunter and Fino. Plaintiff
argues that the settlement was procured by fraud. Aside from his declaration
here (Hunter Decl., ¶ 28), Plaintiff filed a verified pleading which attests
that the cited settlement agreement was procured by fraud. (See Verified Compl.
in case no. 23STCV25071, ¶¶ 2, 9-25.) There has been no determination, here or in
any other case, that the settlement agreement was valid, or procured by fraud.
The Court is reluctant to litigate this issue for the first time in the context
of this vexatious litigant motion, especially when other concurrent actions
exist. Moreover, even if the Court were to accept that the settlement is valid
as to Plaintiff’s claims against Fino, the settlement does not show that it is
valid as to Plaintiff’s claims against Burris. Burris was not a party to the
settlement, and thus its application to the action against him is tenuous. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ motions are DENIED.