  Case Number:  24STCV28728    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  30 Calendar # 10
Date: 1/15/2025
Case Name: ORLANDO
RAMIREZ, et al. vs U.S. BANK TRUST COMPANY NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
Case # 24STCV28728
                        
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE 
 
 
            Orlando
Ramirez (Plaintiff) moves to consolidate this action with U.S. Bank Trust
Co., National Association v. Orlando Ramirez (LASC Case No. 23VEUD03249) (U.S.
Bank). The motion is denied.
 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1048,
subd. (a), provides, “[w]hen actions involving a common question of law or fact
are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or
all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”
 
            “A motion
to consolidate cases pending before the same ‘direct calendar’ judge will be
heard by that judge.” (Edmon & Karnow, Cal
Prac: Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 12:356.)
Under Local Rule 3.3, subdivision (g), “cases may not be consolidated unless
they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may
be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments,
have been related into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned
to that department.” (LASC Local Rules, rule. 3.3 (g)(1).) 
 
Cases must be deemed related by the
Court before they can be consolidated. (LASC Local Rules, rules 3.3(f) and
(g).) “Whenever a party in a civil action knows or learns that the action or
proceeding is related to another action or proceeding pending, dismissed, or
disposed of by judgment in any state or federal court in California, the party
must serve and file a Notice of Related Case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.300, subd. (b).) “The Notice of Related Case must be served and filed as soon
as possible, but no later than 15 days after the facts concerning the existence
of related cases become known.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.300, subd. (e).)
Under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.300, cases are “related” if the cases: “(1) Involve the same parties and are
based on the same or similar claims; (2) Arise from the same or
substantially identical transactions, incidents, or events requiring the determination
of the same or substantially identical questions of law or fact; (3) Involve
claims against, title to, possession of, or damages to the same property; or
(4) Are likely for other reasons to require substantial duplication of judicial
resources if heard by different judges.” “If all the related cases have been
filed in one superior court, the court, on notice to all parties, may order
that the cases . . . be related and may assign them to a single judge or
department.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.300, subd. (h)(1).) 
B.    
Discussion
 
The Court declined to deem these
two cases related on December 13, 2024. In its ruling, the Court cited the fact
that this action relates to a myriad of issues, while the other action is only
to determine the right to possession of a property. Because the Court declined
to deem these two cases related, the Court may not consolidate the cases under
LASC Local Rules 3.3(f) and (g), since consolidation requires both cases to be
in the same Department. Accordingly, the motion is denied.
 
 