 Case Number:  23TRCV01708    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SMBD
  INVESTMENTS, LP,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01708




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COCO’S
  RESTAURANTS, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 10,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Phillip Allan
Trajan Perez and Benjamin P. Tarczy at Miller Nash LP, attorney for defendants  
Responding
Party:                  None
Motions to Be
Relieved as Counsel
The Court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED.  The Court orders that the attorney is
relieved as counsel of record for defendants, effective upon the filing of the
proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the clients.
BACKGROUND
On May 30, 2023, plaintiff SMBD
Investments, LP filed a complaint against Coco’s Restaurants, LLC, Shari’s
Management Corporation, and Fri-M, LLC for breach of lease and account stated.
On August 7, 2023, defendants filed
an answer.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Defendants’ attorneys, Phillip Allan
Trajan Perez and Benjamin P. Tarczy at Miller Nash LP seek to be relieved as
counsel.
            Counsel Tarczy states in his
declaration that defendants have not complied with their engagement agreement
with Miller Nash LP by failing to pay outstanding attorneys’ fees and costs it
has incurred.  Starting in August 2023,
counsel has made several requests that defendants become current on their outstanding
fees and costs.  Counsel also states that
defendants have consented to Miller Nash LP’s withdrawal as counsel but have
not found new counsel.  
The Court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the attorney is
relieved as counsel of record for defendants, effective upon the filing of the
proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the clients.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.