 Case Number:  24TRCV01439    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DONALD
  L. CRAWFORD SR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01439




 
vs.


 


 
RULING
 




 
VERIZON
  COMMUNICATIONS, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 10,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Cellco
Partnership dba Verizon Wireless (joinder by Walmart Inc.)
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Donald L. Crawford
Sr.
Motion to Compel
Arbitration
            The Court considered the moving
papers and joinder, late-filed opposition, and reply papers that was filed
before the late-filed opposition.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED and the case
is STAYED.  Request for judicial notice
by Defendant Cellco Partnership is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On August 30, 2024, plaintiff Donald
L. Crawford Sr. (self-represented) filed a complaint against defendants Verizon
Communications, Inc., Walmart, Inc., and Samsung Electronics of America, Inc.
for breach of contract, products liability, and intentional tort. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (b) Grounds exist for rescission of
the agreement. . . .”
“[W]hen a petition to compel
arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether
the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether
it is enforceable.  Because the existence
of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the
petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.  If the party opposing the
petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding
the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a),
(b))—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a
preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.”  Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th 394, 413.
Petitions to compel arbitration are
summary proceedings in which the court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence.  Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal. 4th 951, 972.  Unlike a
ruling on a motion for summary judgment, the Court is charged with resolving
any factually disputed issues unless there is no evidentiary support for the
claims of the party opposing the petition. 
Id. at 973.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Cellco Parnership dba
Verizon Wireless (erroneously sued as Verizon Communications, Inc.) requests an
order compelling plaintiff to binding arbitration and to stay the proceeding.  Defendant Walmart Inc. filed a joinder.
            In the complaint, plaintiff alleges
that on March 15, 2024, plaintiff and defendant Verizon entered into a written
contract.  Plaintiff transferred his cell
phone from Consumer Cellular to Verizon and received a supposedly new Samsung
A-15 phone for signing up for the service. 
The monthly service charge was $65 to be deducted from plaintiff’s
checking account.  Verizon billed
plaintiff $287 the first month.  The phone
was not brand new.  It was refurbished
from a prior defect.  The service was to
come with complete customer service.  The
phone began to malfunction almost immediately. 
Voicemail could not be set up; the phone jumped to mute or airplane mode
without plaintiff’s knowledge; and it would shut down for hours citing
“overheating.”  It took hours and
sometimes days before the phone would come back online.  Verizon techs could not fix it and
recommended a replacement device. 
Plaintiff has stilnot received the replacement phone.  Plaintiff suffered damages because he had no
working phone and was forced to purchase a Tracphone with a different phone
number.  Plaintiff’s business line is
disabled as well.  Plaintiff was forced
to go to a third carrier, Metro PCS by T Mobile.  Plaintiff paid for service beginning April
20, 2024, but cannot use the service because Verizon locked the network despite
warning from the FCC to release the line to Metro.
            Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant Verizon Wireless argues
that plaintiff agreed to resolve this dispute with Verizon Wireless through
binding arbitration.  Defendant explains
that on March 15, 2024, plaintiff opened a Verizon Wireless cellular service
account for a mobile phone number ending in -8792.  In connection with opening the account,
plaintiff executed a Service Summary.  Joseph
Ninete decl., Exh. A.  The Service
Summary, which references the Verizon Wireless Customer Agreement, states, in
part in bold:  “I agree to the VZW
Customer Agreement (CA), including settlement of disputes by arbitration
instead of jury trial, as well as the terms of the plan and optional services I
have chosen.  I am aware that I can view
the CA anytime at verizonwireless.com.”   It also states on another page:  “I have read and agree to the Verizon
Customer agreement (CA) including settlement of dispute by arbitration instead
of a jury trial . . . .”  
Defendant further contends that
plaintiff executed an Installment Loan Agreement/Security Agreement (“Payment
Agreement”) with Verizon Wireless for the purchase of a Galaxy A15.  Ninete decl., Exh. B.  The Payment Agreement incorporates the
Customer Agreement by reference, including its arbitration provision.  The Payment Agreement also states:  “Additionally, any disputes under this device
payment agreement (including, without limitation, any disputes against the
Seller and/or Verizon Wireless) shall be resolved in accordance with the
dispute resolution provisions in your Customer Service Agreement . . . which
terms are incorporated by reference. 
Specifically, you and Verizon Wireless (and/or the Seller) both agree to
resolve all disputes under this device payment agreement only by arbitration .
. . .”  The Customer Agreement states in
part, in bold capitalized letters, “You and Verizon both agree to resolve
disputes only by arbitration. . . .”  Ninete
decl., Exh. C. 
In the joinder, defendant Walmart
argues that as discussed in length in the moving papers, plaintiff’s signed
contractual agreement with Verizon Wireless mandates that this claim be
resolved in arbitration, and that the agreement clearly states that the seller
(in this case Walmart) is equally entitled to arbitration of the agreement and
for the state court action to be stayed while arbitration proceeds.  See Ninete decl., Exh. B at page 2
(“Specifically, you and Verizon Wireless (and/or the Seller) both agree to
resolve all disputes under this device payment agreement only by arbitration .
. . .”).
In a late-filed opposition,
plaintiff contends that no contract exists between plaintiff and defendants
because the documents are “false, inaccurate, fraudulent in that said documents
have [been] altered and/or photoshopped to appear that plaintiff executed the
attached false and fraudulent contract.” 
He does acknowledge “finger signing” at the store.
The Court finds that defendants
have met their burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement and
that there is no evidence that the above agreements are “false, inaccurate,
fraudulent.” 
Scope
Defendants contend that the
arbitration provision in the Customer Agreement is broadly worded (“Any dispute
that in any way relates to or arises out of this Agreement . . . .) and covers
plaintiff’s claims.  The Court agrees.
Enforceability
Defendant argues that the validity
and enforceability of the arbitration provision in the Customer Agreement must
be decided by the arbitrator, not the Court, because the arbitration provision
contains an express delegation clause.  
To be enforceable, the “delegation
clause” itself must be clear and unmistakable, and not revocable under state
contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.  Tiri v. Luck Chances, Inc. (2014) 226
Cal. App. 4th 231, 242.  See
also B.D. v. Blizzard Ent., Inc. (2022) 76 Cal. App. 5th 931,
957 (arbitration agreement clearly and unmistakably delegates question of
arbitration to arbitrator by statement that the arbitration “has authority to
decide all issues of arbitrability”). 
The Court finds that the delegation clause is clear and
unmistakable.  Plaintiff does not address
the delegation clause or dispute it in the opposition.
The motion is GRANTED as to the
claims against defendants Cellco Partnership dba Verizon Wireless and Walmart
Inc.
.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  The claims asserted against defendants Cellco
Partnership dba Verizon Wireless and Walmart Inc are ordered to arbitration.
            The case is STAYED.
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.