 Case Number:  23TRCV02998    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LILLIAN
  SMITH, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02998




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
RICARDO
  HERNANDEZ,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July
10, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Ricardo Hernandez
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Set Aside Entry of Default;
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No Opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The default entered on May 3, 2024 against
defendant is set aside and vacated.  Defendant is ordered to file a responsive
pleading within 15 days of the date of this Order.
BACKGROUND
            On September 18, 2023, plaintiff
Lillian Smith Sr (self-represented) filed a complaint against Ricardo
Hernandez.
            On May 3, 2024, a default was
entered against defendant.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §473
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .”
            “[T]he
policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it
looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of the merits of the case,
attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect
of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v.
Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal
quotations omitted).
            CCP
§473.5
CCP
§473.5(a) states, in relevant part: 
“When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party
in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered
against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable
time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: 
(i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or
(ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default
or default judgment has been entered.”
CCP
§473.5(b) requires that “a notice of motion to set aside a default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for
making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it
shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack
of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. 
The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.”
CCP
§473.5(c) allows “upon a finding by the court that the motion was made within
the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or default
judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the
action.”
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Ricardo Hernandez requests that the Court set aside the default entered on May
3, 2024, pursuant to CCP §§473 and 473.5.
            On
January 2, 2024, plaintiff filed a proof of service, which was stricken on
March 27, 2024, because plaintiff had failed to identify any person who the
summons and complaint were left and to attach a declaration of due
diligence.  It was also not signed under
penalty of perjury.
On
January 11, 2024, plaintiff filed a proof of service, which was rejected on
February 1, 2024, as it failed to identify a person and there was no
declaration of due diligence.
On March 27,
2024, plaintiff filed a proof of service, which stated that defendant was
substitute served at 920 W. Commonwealth Ave., Fullerton, on March 15, 2024, on
a “male Hispanic shirt displaying company logo who refused to take documents”
by a person who is not a registered process server.  There is no declaration of due diligence.
On April
10, 2024, plaintiff filed a proof of service, which indicated that defendant
was substitute served on April 1, 2024, on “Jenifer an employee with Uhaul
Storage and Moving and willing to give the documents when he returns to
location.”  It did not include a
declaration of diligence or a declaration of mailing.
Defendant
states in his declaration that he is employed by U-Haul Co. of California as a
field relief manager.  Defendant decl., ¶2.  He does not have an assigned office at the
facility in Inglewood.  Id., ¶3.  He typically works out of another U-Haul
facility located in Fullerton, California. 
Id., ¶4.  To date, he has never
been personally served with a copy of the summons and complaint.  Id., ¶5. 
On April 1, 2024, he was notified that someone had attempted to serve
him legal papers at a U-Haul storage facility located at 920 W. Commonwealth
Ave., Fullerton.  That day, he went to
the storage facility to pick up the paperwork that was left for him and passed
it on to his manager.  Id., ¶7.
Defendant
contends that the default entered against him was the result of reasonable
mistake, surprise, and/or excusable neglect. 
He asserts that the default was prematurely entered against him before
the statutory deadline to respond to the complaint.  He contends that he was served with a copy of
the summons and complaint via substitute service on April 1, 2024, and that
based on this date of service, the deadline to respond to the complaint would
have been May 10, 2024, but that the default was entered on May 3, 2024.  Defendant also argues that plaintiff
improperly entered a default against defendant after learning that he was
represented by counsel and after counsel attempted to meet and confer with
plaintiff prior to filing a demurrer and motion to strike.
There is
no opposition.
The
Court rules as follows:
The Court
finds that the April 1, 2024 service was not valid as it was not a proper
substituted service.  Also, the Court
finds that the default was entered prematurely. 
If plaintiff was properly served on April 1, 2024, then defendant had 40
days from when the papers were mailed to file a response.  See CCP §415.20.  There is no indication that the summons and
complaint were mailed.  In any event, the
default was entered on May 3, 2023, which is seven days too early.
In
addition, the entry of the default taken against the Defendant was the result
of excusable neglect, assuming that service was valid.  It is in the interests of justice to grant
the Motion and allow this case to proceed for resolution on the merits.
The
motion is thus GRANTED.         
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.  The Court sets aside
and vacates the default entered on May 3, 2024. 
Defendant is ordered to file a responsive pleading within 15 day of the date
of the Order.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.