 Case Number:  24TRCV00196    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
         Thursday,
September 5, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                      Calendar No. 16
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Think 5 Entertainment, Inc., et al. v. Game Cloud
Network, Inc., et al. 
            24TRCV00196
1.      GameCloud
Studios, Inc.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            GameCloud Studios, Inc.’s Petition to
Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action is denied.   
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on January 19, 2024. Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
was filed on June 4, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’
attempt to launch a virtual gaming and entertainment concept was thwarted by
the conduct of Defendants. Defendants stole intellectual property and breached
contracts. Plaintiffs allege numerous causes of action. 
 
            Request
for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs’
and Defendant’s requests for judicial notice are granted.
 
            Petition to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for
resolving disputes.  [Citation.]  To
further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited
exceptions applies.  [Citation.]  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.  (§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
            “The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. 
In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
            “The party opposing arbitration has the burden of
demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require
arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless,
this policy does not override ordinary principles of contract
interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms
themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be
ordered to arbitration:  Although [t]he
law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no
policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they
have not agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice
v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and
quotations omitted). 
 
            In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of
Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce
an arbitration agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory who is the agent
of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  

 
            Defendant moves for an order compelling arbitration and a
stay of proceedings. The motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§1281 et seq., on the grounds Plaintiffs are bound by a written agreement to
arbitrate the subject matter of the Complaint. Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2.
Defendant argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists between the parties
that requires arbitration of all disputes. Defendant also moves pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 to stay all proceedings. 
 
            Defendant states that the relevant arbitration clause reads
as follows:
            ““Any claim, dispute, or controversy of whatever nature
arising out of or relating to this Agreement (including any other agreement(s)
contemplated hereunder), including, without limitation, any action or claim
based on tort, contract, or statute (including any claims of breach or
violation of statutory or common law protections from discrimination,
harassment and hostile working environment), or concerning the interpretation,
effect, termination, validity, performance and/or breach of the Agreement
(“Claim”), shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration before a single
arbitrator (“Arbitrator”) selected from and administered by the San Francisco
office of JAMS (the “Administrator”) in accordance with the its then existing
commercial arbitration rules and procedures. . . .” (Pruna Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Ex.
1-2; Complaint, Ex. A, p. 11, Sec. 12(c); Ex. C, p. 11, Sec. 12(c).)”
(Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 4, lines 11-21.)
 
            The Court notes that the only parties to the Master
Service Agreement which allegedly contains the arbitration clause are GameCloud
Studios, Inc. and MWE Live LLC.
 
            Moving Defendant has met its initial burden of producing
prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate pursuant to the
declaration of Rovee V. Pruna. As noted above, at this stage, Defendant need
only show prima facie evidence which it has properly done. Thus, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to produce evidence to challenge the authenticity of the
agreement, by, for example, challenging that it ever signed the agreement. The
Court notes that Plaintiff produced no competent evidence to challenge the
agreement. Thus, the burden does not shift to the third step where the moving
party must establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement
between the parties. 
 
            The Court again notes, however, that the agreement is
only between GameCloud Studios, Inc. and MWE Live LLC. The Court refers the
parties to the authorities noted above regarding the enforceability and
applicability of non-parties to the arbitration agreement. Moving Defendant
submitted absolutely no evidence that any other parties to the instant court
action, who are non-parties to the arbitration agreement, can be compelled or
can enforce the arbitration clause. 
 
            Therefore, Defendant has met its initial burden to show
the existence of an arbitration agreement only between the parties noted above.
Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the arbitration clause should
not be enforced. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223. Plaintiff has sufficiently
met its burden to show that the arbitration agreement should not be enforced. 
 
            A court can
invalidate an arbitration agreement when it is unconscionable or against public
policy.  See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 99. 
Unconscionability contains two elements: 
procedural unconscionability and substantive unconscionability.  
 
            “[U]nconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive' element, the former focusing on ‘oppression' or 'surprise'
due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on 'overly harsh' or 'one-sided'
results.  The prevailing view is that
[procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order
for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability." But they need not be
present in the same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at 114.      
 
            “The
traditional standard of unconscionability . . . is that the inequality
amounting to fraud must be so strong and manifest as to shock the conscience
and confound the judgment of any man of common sense.   Subsequent decisions have defined an
unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms, such as a contract that
no man in his senses and not under delusion would make on the one hand, and as
no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
            Procedural
unconscionability may be established by showing oppression and surprise.  Oppression occurs where the parties have
unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of meaningful
negotiations.  Surprise recognizes the
extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden.
 
            “In many cases of adhesion contracts, the weaker party
lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also any realistic opportunity to
look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he must either adhere to the
standardized agreement or forego the needed service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have elements of an
adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
            “[C]ourts, including ours, have used various nonexclusive
formulations to capture the notion that unconscionability requires a
substantial degree of unfairness beyond a simple
old-fashioned bad bargain. This latter qualification is important. Commerce
depends on the enforceability, in most instances, of a duly executed written
contract. A party cannot avoid a contractual obligation merely by complaining
that the deal, in retrospect, was unfair or a bad bargain. Not all one-sided
contract provisions are unconscionable; hence the various intensifiers in our
formulations: ‘overly harsh,’ ‘unduly oppressive,’ ‘unreasonably favorable.’
The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.” Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original). 
 
            To support the procedural unconscionability argument,
Plaintiff contends that it was not provided the opportunity to negotiate the
terms, that the arbitration clause was hidden, inconspicuous with the same typesetting
as the rest of the document, and that the agreement was given on a take it or
leave it basis. (Decl., Kenneth Taylor, ¶¶ 2-4.)  
 
             Defendant has
adequately established that Plaintiff signed the arbitration agreement. It is
not an adequate defense to enforcement that Plaintiff failed to read and
understand the agreement before signing the agreement. Caballero v. Premier
Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 519. In addition,
Defendants have no obligation to highlight, explain, or discuss the terms of
the arbitration agreement as any such requirement would be contrary to the FAA.
Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 914-15.
 
            The required level of oppression and surprise is lacking
here. In addition, Defendant submitted evidence that, at a minimum, Plaintiff
took the time to review the agreement and made suggestions for additions to the
agreement. (Decl., Aaron Baker, Ex. 2.) It can be inferred that Plaintiff could
also have made suggestions or changes to the arbitration clause. Therefore, the
Court finds that the arbitration was not procedurally unconscionable.
 
            As noted above, both
procedural and substantive unconscionability must exist for the Court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration provision. As
noted, Plaintiffs submitted insufficient evidence to support the procedural
unconscionability element. Thus, the Court need not even address the
substantive unconscionability arguments. 
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c) provides an exception to
arbitration when:
“A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 further provides:
“If the court determines
that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under
subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement
and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or
special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
            Thus, a court may refuse to enforce arbitration if it
determines that a party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a
pending court action with a third party arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. CCP § 1281.2(c). Here, it is
undisputed that non-parties to the arbitration agreement are parties to the
instant action. A simple review of the FAC reveals that there are numerous
party Defendants who are not parties to the arbitration agreement. Further,
Plaintiffs have adequately shown that there is a significant potential of
conflicting rulings on common issues of fact and law between the parties to the
arbitration agreement and these third parties. Thus, the proper course herein
would be to deny the request for arbitration and order the matter to proceed as
a court action against all parties. 
 
            Therefore, Defendant’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and
Request to Stay Action is denied.
 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 