 Case Number:  24TRCV0037    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                 Thursday, September 5, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 17  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Juan
Aguilar Maldonado, et al. v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et al.
24TRCV00337
1.      American Honda Motor Company, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Depositions and Request for Sanctions
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
American Honda Motor Company, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Depositions and Request for Sanctions is granted, in part, and denied, in part.

 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on January 31, 2024. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. This is an action under the Song-Beverly Act. Plaintiffs
also allege a cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition 
 
The
party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling appearance at
the deposition and production of documents, pursuant to the deposition notice,
from the party deponent who fails to appear or produce materials requested in
the deposition notice, and who has not served a valid objection under §
2025.410(a).  CCP § 2025.450(a).  
 
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). Plaintiff set forth a
meet and confer declaration stating that Plaintiff contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance. (Decl., Nima Shirazi, ¶¶ 6-16). 
 
Defendant
moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs to appear, testify, and produce
documents at their depositions. The motion is made on the grounds that the
deponents failed to appear for the noticed date of the depositions and Plaintiffs
have failed to respond to requests to schedule an available date for the
depositions. Defendant also seeks sanctions.
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel deposition is granted, in part. Plaintiffs are ordered to
appear for their depositions at a date and time that can be agreed upon by the
parties. If no agreement can be reached, the deponents are ordered to appear at
a reasonable date and time to be determined by the moving party. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is denied. 
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 states, in relevant part: “A request for a sanction
shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.” 
 
Here,
the notice of the motion failed to identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanctions are sought.
 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 