  Case Number:  23TRCV02127    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                           Thursday,
September 5, 2024
Department M                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 15 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Addie Richburg v. American Airlines,
Inc., et al.
            23TRCV02127
1.      Addie Richburg’s Motion to Compel Further Responses from
Defendant American Airlines, Inc. to Demand for Production of Documents, Set
One, and Request for Monetary Sanctions  
2.      Addie Richburg’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
from Defendant American Airlines, Inc. to Demand for Production of Documents,
Set Two, and Request for Monetary Sanctions
3.      Addie Richburg’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
from Defendant American Airlines, Inc. to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and
Request for Monetary Sanctions
4.      Addie Richburg’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
from Defendant American Airlines, Inc. to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and
Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Addie Richburg’s Motions to Compel
Further Responses from Defendant American Airlines, Inc. Demand for Production
of Documents, Set One and Demand for Production of Documents, Set Two, and
Requests for Monetary Sanctions are granted, in part, denied, in part, and
moot, in part.   
 
Addie Richburg’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
from Defendant American Airlines, Inc. to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary Sanctions are granted,
in part, denied, in part, and moot, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June 30, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff fell from a wheelchair because
Defendants failed to ensure safe transport from the airport terminal to the
parking garage. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Negligence
2. Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision 3. Premises Liability.
 
Motions to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Form
Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories
 
A party responding to an
inspection demand shall respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party
believes the responding party responded inadequately, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is given within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(c).)   
 
 Where
responses to interrogatories have been served but the requesting party believes
that they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or,
because an objection is without merit, that party may move for an order
compelling a further response.  CCP §
2030.300(a).  Notice of the motion must
be given within 45 days after service of verified responses in question, or any
verified supplemental responses.  CCP §
2030.300(c).  The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with CCP §
2016.040.  CCP § 2030.300(b).
 
Meet and
Confer
 
Plaintiff set forth meet and
confer declarations in substantial compliance with CCP §§ 2030.300(b) and
2031.310(b)(2).  (Declarations, Artur
Aziev, ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
Motions to
Compel 
 
Request for Production of
Documents, Set One
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is granted,
in part, denied, in part, and moot, in part. 
 
The Court notes that
Defendant served further responses on August 15, 2024. Defendant acknowledges
that these further responses are not verified and states that it anticipates
that they will be verified before the hearing date. If the responses are not
verified before the hearing date, the ruling of the motion will be changed. The
following ruling is premised upon verifications being served before the hearing
of the motion.
 
As to Requests 1, 7 to 10,
12, 13, 17, 33, 36, 38, and 39, the motion is moot because Defendant served
further responses to the requests. 
 
As to Requests 3, 4, 14 to
16, 18, 19, 22 to 24, 26, 28, 30, 31, 34, 35, and 41, the motion is not moot
because there were no new responses to these requests set forth in the further
responses.
 
As
to Requests 3, 4, 22, 31, 34, 35, and 41, the motion to compel further
responses is granted.
 
As to each request, Plaintiff attempts to set forth a response pursuant
to CCP § 2031.230 by stating: “A diligent search and reasonable inquiry having
been made, responding party is not in possession, custody or control of any
documents responsive to this request; nor is responding party aware of the
existence of any responsive documents. Investigation and discovery are
continuing, and responding party reserves its right to amend this response
based upon subsequently discovered information.” 
 
The responses are not in compliance with Section 2031.230 which states:
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item. Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.
 
As to Requests 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, and 30, the motion is denied.

 
Request 14 seeks: “All
personnel policies that applied to YOUR employees on the day of the INCIDENT.” 
Request 16 seeks: “All
DOCUMENTS regarding job performance, including performance appraisals, reviews
and evaluations by YOU of YOUR employees who transported people on a wheelchair
on the SUBJECT PROPERTY from five years before the INCIDENT to the present.”
Request 18 seeks: “All
DOCUMENTS regarding reviews, feedback, surveys YOU received from your clients
about wheelchair transportation on the SUBJECT PROPERTY.”
Request 19 seeks: “All
DOCUMENTS regarding COMPLAINTS YOU received from your clients about wheelchair
transportation on the SUBJECT PROPERTY.”
Request 23 seeks: “All
DOCUMENTS regarding YOUR document retention policies from the date of the
INCIDENT until the present.”
Request 30 seeks: “All
DOCUMENTS which evidence all YOUR employees present at the SUBJECT AREAS at the
time of the INCIDENT.”
 
The motion to compel further
responses to Requests 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, and 30 is denied. The requests are
overly broad in time and scope.
 
As to Request 15, the motion
is denied.
 
Request 15 seeks: “All
policies regarding maintenance, control, operation, or inspection of
wheelchairs YOU use to transport people on the SUBJECT PROPERTY.” 
The motion to compel further
response is denied. Defendant made objections but then set forth a substantive
response and produced documents: “Without waiving these objections, and a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry having been made, responding party
hereby produces the American Airlines Group Services Agreement Annex B between
American Airlines, Inc. and Envoy Air, Inc. (AA 00001 - 00010) and a PowerPoint
presentation titled Customer Assistant Representative Safety Training LAX (AA
00017 – AA 00034).”
 
As to Request 24, the motion
is granted.
 
Request 24 seeks: “A blank
exemplar copy of incident reports made concerning injuries that occur on the
SUBJECT PROPERTY at the time of the INCIDENT.”
The motion to compel further
response is granted. Viewing a blank exemplar copy may lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence in that it could give insight into the type of information
that Defendant seeks following an incident.
 
As to Requests 26 and 28,
the motion is denied.
 
Request 26 seeks “All
DOCUMENTS evidencing who owned, leased, or operated the SUBJECT AREA on the
date of the INCIDENT, including but not limited to contracts, leases, or
agreements from five years before the date of the INCIDENT through the present.”
Request 28 seeks: “All
DOCUMENTS reflecting who controlled the SUBJECT AREA on the date of the
INCIDENT, including but not limited to contracts, leases, or agreements from
five years before the date of the INCIDENT through the present.”
The motion to compel further
responses is denied. Without any facts indicating that any condition of the
premises actually contributed to this incident, the requests are overly broad
and not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
Request for Production of
Documents, Set Two

Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is granted,
in part, and moot, in part. 
 
The Court notes that
Defendant served further responses on August 15, 2024. Defendant acknowledges
that these further responses are not verified and states that it anticipates
that they will be verified before the hearing date. If the responses are not verified
before the hearing date, the ruling of the motion will be changed. The
following ruling is premised upon verifications being served before the hearing
of the motion.
 
As to Requests 44, 46, 49,
50, and 53 to 47, the motion is moot because Defendant served further responses
to the requests. 
 
As to Requests 47 and 48, the
motion is not moot because there were no new responses to these requests set
forth in the further responses.
 
As to Requests 47, 48, the
motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
As to each request,
Plaintiff attempts to set forth a response pursuant to CCP § 2031.230 by
stating: “A diligent search and reasonable inquiry having been made, responding
party is not in possession, custody or control of any documents responsive to
this request; nor is responding party aware of the existence of any responsive
documents. Investigation and discovery are continuing, and responding party
reserves its right to amend this response based upon subsequently discovered
information.” 
 
The responses are not in
compliance with Section 2031.230 which states: “A representation of inability
to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has
been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also
specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party
to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item. Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.
 
Form Interrogatories, Set
One
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is granted, in part, and is
moot, in part.  
 
The Court notes that
Defendant served further responses on August 15, 2024. Defendant acknowledges
that these further responses are not verified and states that it anticipates
that they will be verified before the hearing date. If the responses are not verified
before the hearing date, the ruling of the motion will be changed. The
following ruling is premised upon verifications being served before the hearing
of the motion.
 
As to Form Interrogatories
12.1 and 15.1, the motion is moot because Defendant served further responses to
the interrogatories. 
 
As to Form Interrogatories
4.1 and 12.6, the motion is not moot because there were no new responses to
these interrogatories set forth in the further responses.
 
As to Form Interrogatory 4.1,
the motion is granted. The response is non-responsive and incomplete. 
 
As to Form Interrogatory 12.6,
the motion is granted. The response is non-responsive and equivocal. Not being
aware of a report is not a definitive statement stating that either a report
was or was not made. 
 
Special Interrogatories, Set
One
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is granted, in part, denied,
in part, and is moot, in part.  
 
The Court notes that
Defendant served further responses on August 15, 2024. Defendant acknowledges
that these further responses are not verified and states that it anticipates
that they will be verified before the hearing date. If the responses are not verified
before the hearing date, the ruling of the motion will be changed. The
following ruling is premised upon verifications being served before the hearing
of the motion.
 
As to Special Interrogatories
9, 22, and 24, the motion is moot because Defendant served further responses to
the interrogatories. 
 
As to Special
Interrogatories 26 to 30, 32, 34, 35, 36, 45, and 46, the motion is not moot
because there were no new interrogatories to these interrogatories set forth in
the further responses.
 
As to Special
Interrogatories 26 to 30, 32, and 34, the motion is granted. The objections are
not well taken. Information related to the maintenance of the wheelchair may
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in this action as it may
potentially uncover evidence of other potential causes for the incident.
 
As to Special
Interrogatories 35 and 36, the motion is granted. Questions related to the
investigation itself does not necessarily mean that privileged information will
be revealed.
 
As to Special
Interrogatories 45 and 46, the motion is denied. The interrogatories are overly
broad.
 
Requests for Sanctions 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is denied.  
 
It
is true that further responses were only served after Plaintiff incurred the
time and expense to file the motion to compel. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a) states: “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in
favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.”
 
However,
as noted above, many of the discovery requests were overly broad and the
objections asserted were meritorious and did not need to be supplemented.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.