  Case Number:  23AHCV00640    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GERARDO MARTINEZ, JR., et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   PASADENA, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT CITY OF PASADENA’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFFS’
   GERARDO MARTINEZ, JR. AND LEILA MARTINEZ’S RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY; REQUEST
   FOR SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 27,
  2024



 
On March 22, 2023,
plaintiffs Gerardo Martinez, Jr. and Leila Martinez  (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against defendant City of Pasadena (“Defendant”) arising from injuries
 sustained in a fight that occurred at a soccer match. Defendant now
seeks orders compelling Plaintiffs to each serve responses to its discovery
requests propounded on July 31, 2023. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) A party that fails to serve timely
responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).) 
Plaintiffs did not oppose Defendant’s motions
and it is undisputed that they did not serve responses to Defendant’s discovery
requests. Accordingly, Defendant’s motions are GRANTED and the
Court orders plaintiff Gerardo Martinez, Jr. to serve verified responses
without objections to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One within 20 days of the date
of this Order. The Court also orders plaintiff Leila Martinez to serve verified
responses without objections to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One
within 20 days of the date of this Order.
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Gerardo Martinez,
Jr. in the reduced amount of $570 for 3 hours
at defense
counsel’s hourly rate of $225 and $180
in filing fees, to be paid within 20 days of the date of this Order. Sanctions
are also imposed against Leila Martinez in the reduced amount of $855
for 3
hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $225
and $180
in filing fees, to be paid within 20 days of the date of this Order.
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 6th
day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 