 Case Number:  23STCV10720    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA ELENA GRADO, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
ANTELOPE VALLEY COUNTRY CLUB
  IMPROVEMENT COMPANY, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV10720
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 8, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Antelope Valley Country Club
Improvement Company (“Antelope”) seeks a preliminary injunction against
Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Maria Grado and Bob and Me Productions, Inc.
DBA The Lemon Leaf (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) enjoining their continued
presence at Antelope.  
 
The Court DENIES Antelope’s motion for a preliminary
injunction.
 
Background
 
This case concerns Plaintiffs’ work as food service
contractors for Antelope, a country club. On July 23, 2020, the parties entered
a contract (the “Agreement”) whereby Plaintiffs provided food services for
Antelope. Plaintiffs occupied and operated a kitchen on Antelope’s premises as
part of the Agreement. The agreement ran for a three-year term, with automatic
three-year extensions up to three times unless either party delivered a notice
of cancelation four months in advance of the end of the term.
 
On February 13, 2023, Antelope served a “Notice of
Non-Renewal of Agreement” on Plaintiff. The parties dispute whether this notice
validly ended the agreement.
 
As of the filing of this motion, Plaintiffs retained
possession and use of the kitchen.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against Antelope and other defendants
on May 12, 2023, alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (3) declaratory relief; (4) injunctive relief; (5)
negligence; (6) fraudulent promises without intent to perform; (7) negligent
promises without intent to inform; and (8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (“IIED”). Plaintiffs subsequently dismissed their third claim for
declaratory relief.
 
Antelope filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs on June
22, 2023. The operative cross-complaint is the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(“SACC”), which raises claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) wrongful
interference; and (3) declaratory relief.
 
On September 13, 2023, Antelope filed an ex parte
application for a preliminary injunction and temporary restraining order (the
“Ex Parte”). Judge Kin denied Antelope’s application on September 15, 2023. Antelope
contends that the primary basis for the denial was that a noticed motion was
the proper vehicle to obtain a preliminary injunction. Antelope also contends
that the denial was based, at least in part, on Antelope’s insufficient
allegations of ongoing damages. Plaintiffs claim it was a decision on the
merits based on the same evidence currently before the Court.
 
At the CMC held on October 4, 2023, Antelope informed the
Court that it would seek a preferential setting of Plaintiff’s Declaratory
Relief cause of action. The Court set a briefing schedule on the issue of
preferential setting. On the day Antelope’s brief was due, Plaintiff dismissed
its Declaratory Relief cause of action.
 
On November 17, Antelope filed a “NOTICE OF MOTION AND
MOTION BY CROSS-COMPLAINANT FOR A PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION AND RESTRAINING ORDER
AGAINST THE CROSS-DEFENDANTS MARIA ELENA GRADO, AN INDIVIDUAL AND BOB AND ME
PRODUCTIONS, INC. DBA THE LEMON LEAF AND MOTION TO AMEND THE FIRST AMENDED
CROSSCOMPLAINT” (the “First Motion”). Antelope subsequently amended its notice
of motion to replace the request for a preliminary injunction and replace it
with a request for leave to amend the cross-complaint. The Court therefore
denied the First Motion for a preliminary injunction for improper notice. The
Court granted Antelope leave to amend the cross-complaint so that it could
allege ongoing damages and add a claim for declaratory relief after Plaintiffs
had dismissed their own declaratory relief claim.
 
On January 3, 2024, Antelope filed the SACC.
 
On January 16, 2024, Antelope filed the current motion for a
preliminary injunction requiring Plaintiffs to vacate the kitchen and
Antelope’s premises. Plaintiffs filed an opposition and Antelope filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
In determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction,
the trial court considers two factors: (1) the reasonable probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial; and (2) a balancing of the
“irreparable harm” that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the court
grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a); 14859
Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402; Pillsbury,
Madison & Sutro v. Schectman (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1283.) “Substantively,
before a court may issue a nonstatutory injunction as a provisional remedy for
breach of contract, it must appear that monetary relief would not afford
adequate relief or that it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount
of damages.” (Pacific Decision Sciences Corp. v. Superior Court (2004)
121 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1110.)
 
A court’s determination is guided by a “mix” of the
potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction. (Butt
v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) However, a trial court
may not grant a preliminary injunction, regardless of the balance of interim
harm, unless there is some possibility that the plaintiff would ultimately
prevail on the merits of the claim. (Ibid.)
 
The court must consider both factors. The two factors are a
sliding scale – the stronger the showing of probability of prevailing, the
lesser showing is required for irreparable harm. (Butt v. California, supra,
4 Cal.4th at p. 678; The Right Side Coalition v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 336 (reversing denial of preliminary
injunction based solely on balancing of hardships without considering
probability of prevailing). The plaintiff must make some showing of each
factor. (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn. (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 454, 459.) A court may not issue a preliminary injunction if the plaintiff
cannot possibly prevail on the merits even if a strong showing of irreparable
harm has been made. (Butt v. California, supra, 4 Cal.4th at p.
677-78.)
 
Discussion
 
Propriety of the Motion
 
Plaintiffs argue that this motion is a motion for
reconsideration of either the Court’s denial the Ex Parte or the Court’s denial
of the First Motion for a preliminary injunction. 
 
As discussed above, the Court did not consider the First
Motion on its merits because it was not properly noticed. 
 
Judge Kin similarly appears not to have reached the merits
of the preliminary injunction on the Ex Parte. “A preliminary injunction … is
issued after hearing on either (1) noticed motion or (2) an order to show
cause[,]” as compared with a temporary restraining order, which is issued ex
parte. (Rutter, Civ. Proc. Before Trial (2023), Ch. 9(II)-A(4).) Although
Antelope sought an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not
be granted, an OSC was not issued. Thus, it appears that Judge Kin did not
consider the request for an injunction on the merits.
 
Preliminary Injunction
 
“[A]n injunction is prohibitory if it requires a person to
refrain from a particular act and mandatory if it compels performance of an
affirmative act that changes the position of the parties.” (Davenport v.
Blue Cross of California (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446.) “The granting of
a mandatory injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases
where the right thereto is clearly established.” (Slatkin v. White
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 963, 972, citing Shoemaker v. County of Los Angeles
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 618, 625; Brown v. Pacifica Foundation, Inc.
(2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 915, 925.) Appellate courts “will more closely scrutinize
an injunction that changes the status quo.” (Brown v. Pacifica Foundation,
Inc., supra, 34 Cal.App.5th at p. 925.)
 
Antelope seeks an injunction requiring Plaintiffs to leave
Antelope’s premises and cease any operation of the kitchen. Although the requested
order requiring Plaintiffs to cease operation of the kitchen is prohibitive,
the requested order requiring Plaintiffs to leave the kitchen entirely is
mandatory – and furthermore, it is this mandatory injunction which is argued to
be necessary to protect Antelope’s interest of operating the kitchen itself. Thus,
the Court will apply the standard for mandatory injunctions, granting the
injunction only “in extreme cases where the right thereto is clearly
established.” (Slatkin, supra, 102 Cal.App.4th at p. 972.)
 
This does not appear to be an extreme case. Both Antelope
and Plaintiffs contend that the inability to operate the kitchen will be
seriously damaging to their businesses. Antelope argues that it may have to
reduce or end usage of the clubhouse, which contains the kitchen, in order to
cut costs if it does not have revenue from the kitchen. Antelope additionally
would lose the atmosphere provided by the kitchen, which may affect its appeal
to customers. Antelope argues that an award of damages months or years from now
will not replace the loss of members. Conversely, Plaintiffs would have to
incur costs of at least $575,000.00 bring another kitchen in Antelope Valley
into code-compliance for their use, a process which would likely take at least
nine months. Further, without the use of the kitchen, Plaintiffs would lose
their food service contract with Compass Group North America Palmdale campus,
which has been the main source of income keeping their company alive. Thus, it
appears that the potential harm to Plaintiffs from an injunction is far
greater, and less likely to be repairable, than the potential harm to Antelope
from its denial.
 
Antelope argues that it will clearly succeed on the merits
because the Agreement reached the end of its first term in July 2023 and
Antelope served a notice of nonrenewal in February 2023, well more than four
months before the end of the term. Plaintiffs argue that the notice violated
the Agreement because Antelope was required to negotiate in good faith to
determine whether an extension would be mutually agreeable. (Grado Decl. ¶¶
5-7.) Moreover, Plaintiffs argue that Antelope is estopped from terminating the
license.  (Plaintiff’s Opp. at §
XIII.)  Although these contentions appear
to be fundamental disputes between the parties as to whether the Agreement was
validly terminated, the parties do not brief the issue in any orderly manner.
Without clearer argumentation on the issue, the Court is not prepared to issue
a mandatory injunction, particularly when the balance of the harms at risk here
appears to weigh against the injunction. The Court therefore denies Antelope’s
motion.