 Case Number:  23LBCV00098    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Miracle Mile Healthcare Center filed this action against
Defendants, All Seasons Healthcare, Inc. and Maneesh Ashley Bansal for common
counts and account stated.  Plaintiff
alleges it provided patient services to All Seasons, which failed to pay for
those services.  It alleges Bansal is liable
for All Seasons’ failure to pay on an alter ego theory.  
 
Plaintiff filed its complaint on 1/18/23.  Plaintiff filed proof of service on All
Seasons on 2/14/23.  The POS indicates
Plaintiff’s registered process server served All Seasons by personally serving
Jesse Gastelum, its agent for service of process, on 2/13/23.  On 4/05/23, at Plaintiff’s request, the Clerk
entered All Seasons’ default.  
 
On 4/25/23, Plaintiff filed proof of service on Bansal.  The POS indicates Bansal was served by substitute
service on Susan Serrano, a person at the front desk of the office located at
5540 N. Figueroa St., who indicated the doctor was busy and she would accept
service.  The substitute service occurred
on 4/20/23.  On 6/01/23, at Plaintiff’s
request, the Clerk entered Bansal’s default. 

 
2.    
Motion to Vacate Default
a.     Request for Relief
On 7/17/23, Bansal filed this motion to vacate the default entered
against him.  He moves to vacate the
default on two grounds.  First, he
contends he has not used the Figueroa St. address since 2019.  Second, he contends there were no reasonable
attempts to serve him personally prior to serving him by substitute
service.  Bansal explains that he knew
All Seasons had been served, but he and Plaintiff were engaged in ongoing settlement
discussions and he believed Plaintiff would not serve him while those discussions
were ongoing.  He explains that he only
found out his default had been entered because the request for entry of his default
was served on All Seasons, and he received that communication.  He contends the default should be vacated as void
in light of the lack of service or, in the alternative, vacated due to his
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 

 
b.     Opposition
Opposition to the motion was due nine court days prior to the hearing.  CCP §1005(b). 
Nine court days prior to 11/16/23 fell on 11/02/23, because 11/10/23 was
a court holiday.  Plaintiff filed its
untimely opposition papers on 11/06/23, two court days late.  The Court has read and considered the untimely
opposition papers, but asks Plaintiff to ensure all papers are timely filed and
served in the future in connection with this and other actions.  
 
Plaintiff argues, in opposition to the motion, that Bansal knew of the
ongoing lawsuit against All Seasons and knew he was named, and that he was
served at the address he lists with the U.S. National Plan and Provider
Enumeration System.  It contends the
receptionist said Bansal was busy, but he would be given the papers.  It contends Plaintiff did not act timely to
secure representation and file this motion once he realized his default was
entered.  
 
c.    
Reply
Despite the untimely opposition, Bansal filed timely reply papers on
11/08/23.  Bansal contends none of the
arguments made in opposition to the motion are sufficient to defeat his request
for relief, which must be granted because the default is void.  
 
d.    
Analysis
The ruling on this motion turns largely on a credibility issue.  Plaintiff contends substitute service was attempted
on three occasions at the subject address. 
The first time, the front door was locked.  The second time, the receptionist said
Defendant was not there and to come back another day.  The third time, the receptionist said
Defendant was busy and she would accept service.
 
Defendant, on the other hand, contends he had not worked at the subject
location since 2019, so the first two service attempts did not constitute
reasonable attempts to serve him personally, and the actual service was not
proper because it was not at his usual place of business.  
 
It certainly seems odd that a receptionist would tell a process server
that the defendant “was not in” and to “come back another time” if the
defendant did not work there.  It also
seems odd that the receptionist would say the doctor was “busy” and agree to
accept service on his behalf if the defendant did not work there.  It is possible, however, that the process
server merely told the receptionist that the papers were for “a doctor who works
in the building” or something similar, or that the receptionist was dealing
with a large volume of doctors and did not know who worked there and who did
not.
 
The Court has a signed declaration from the defendant doctor stating he
had not worked at the subject location since 2019.  This is sufficient prima facie evidence to
show the default is void and MUST be set aside. 
Of course, if Plaintiff learns, during the course of the action, that
Defendant has perjured himself, there are serious repercussions to that choice.
 
Plaintiff also makes much of Defendant’s address being on a national
database.  The Court has no independent knowledge
concerning how that database is maintained or whether a physician has a duty to
immediately update that database if his address changes.  The Court is aware that myriad databases
contain old and outdated information, such that they do not always constitute
evidence that the person listed in the database currently maintains the address
listed.
 
Because the default is void, it must be set aside regardless of diligence.  The Court does find, however, that Defendant
acted diligently.  The default was entered
on 6/01/23, and Defendant filed this motion on 7/17/23, only six weeks
later.  
 
The motion is granted.  Defendant
filed a copy of his proposed answer as Exhibit A to his attorney’s
declaration.  Defendant must file a
separate copy of the answer within five days. 

 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing and CMC.
4.     OSC
There is also an OSC re: default
packet on calendar.  The OSC is moot in light
of the ruling vacating the default.