 Case Number:  23LBCV01545    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Arkas,
LLC filed this action against Defendants, Elizabeth Richter and all unknown
occupants, tenants, and subtenants for unlawful detainer on 8/15/23.  Defendant filed a response to the complaint
on 9/01/23.  
 
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
Until the moving party has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing party
has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving party has
discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the opposing
party may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
Unlike former law, it is not the
plaintiff's initial burden to disprove affirmative defenses and
cross-complaints asserted by the defendant. (CCP § 437c(p)(1); Oldcastle
Precast, Inc. v. Lumbermens Mut. Cas. Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 565.)
 
b.    
Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff seeks judicial notice of
a deed of trust, substitution of trustee, notice of default and election to
sell, notice of trustee’s sale, and trustee’s deed upon sale.  Plaintiff also seeks judicial notice of its own
complaint and Defendant’s response to the complaint.  The RJN is granted.  
 
c.    
Moving Burden
Plaintiff
establishes that Defendant purchased the property at issue in this action
subject to a deed of trust.  Fact 1.  Plaintiff establishes that the bank foreclosed
on the deed of trust and Plaintiff purchased the property at a nonjudicial
foreclosure sale.  Fact 6.  Plaintiff establishes that, after the sale,
it served a Notice to Vacate the property on Defendant and all unknown occupants.  Fact 10. 
Plaintiff establishes that Defendant remains in possession of the
subject property.  Fact 11.   
 
Plaintiff filed its
complaint on 8/15/23, more than three days after serving the three-day notice
to vacate after sale.  Plaintiff filed
this summary judgment motion on 10/04/23. 
Pursuant to Civil Code §1161a(b)(3), Plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the subject property in light of the nonjudicial foreclosure sale.  
 
Plaintiff met its
burden to show it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on the complaint.  
 
d.    
Opposing Burden
To date, Defendant
has not filed opposition to the motion.  Pursuant
to CRC 3.1351(b), Defendant is entitled to make any opposition to the motion
orally at the hearing.  Pursuant to CRC
3.1351(c), if Defendant wishes to file written opposition, she must do so on or
before the close of business the last day prior to the hearing.  The Court has not, as of the drafting of this
tentative ruling, received any written opposition.  The Court will consider any written and/or
oral opposition at the time of the hearing. 

 
e.    
Conclusion
Plaintiff met its
moving burden to show it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Defendant has not filed opposition to the motion
and has therefore not met her burden to raise a triable issue of material
fact.  If the parties submit on the tentative,
the motion will be granted.
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   