 Case Number:  22LBCV00381    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Complaint
Plaintiff, A1 Container Solutions, LLC filed this action against
Defendants, Cargomatic, Inc., Culines Shipping Service Agency (USA), Inc., and
Norton Lilly International, Inc. for breach of contract, common counts, inducing
breach of contract, and intentional interference with contractual relations.  
 
The crux of the complaint against Cargomatic is that A1 agreed to
provide container yard space and related services to Cargomatic pursuant to a
written agreement.  Cargomatic made the
first two payments per the contract, then ceased making payments and indicated an
intention not to make further payments.  
 
The crux of the complaint against CU and Norton is that they were
customers of Cargomatic, and they were the ones who insisted Cargomatic enter
into the agreement.  Soon after
Cargomatic entered into the contract, CU and Norton realized they did not need Cargomatic’s
service, and they induced Cargomatic to breach the contract.  
 
2.    
Cargomatic Cross-Complaint
Cargomatic answered the complaint and filed a cross-complaint against
A1 for fraudulent inducement, breach of contract, breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional interference with contractual
relations, indemnity, breach of the unfair competition law, intentional and negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage, negligent misrepresentation,
and declaratory relief.  The crux of the
cross-complaint is that A1, during negotiations, represented that it could handle
the business Cargomatic would be bringing to it, when in reality it lacked the
capacity to provide the services contracted for.  
 
3.    
United Supply Chain Services, Inc.’s Cross-Complaint
United Supply Chain Services identifies itself in its cross-complaint
as having been erroneously sued and served as CU Lines Shipping Service Agency
(USA), Inc. in the complaint.  It will be
referred to as “United” from this point forward in this ruling.
 
United filed a cross-complaint against A1 for the same claims asserted
by Cargomatic, with the exception of declaratory relief.  The crux of its cross-complaint is that it
was an intended third party beneficiary of the contract between Cargomatic and
A1, and A1’s false representations that it would be able to handle the volume
needed by United caused United harm.  
 
4.    
Motion to Compel Further Responses

Relief Sought

A1 moves to compel further responses to various FROGs, SROGs, RFAs, and
RFPs, and also seeks to compel production of responses in compliance with Defendant’s
indication that it would produce documents. 
  
 

Analysis

Defendant filed untimely opposition
to the motion on 11/03/23 (because 11/10/23 is a court holiday, nine court days
prior to the hearing fell on 11/02/23). 
Defendant, in opposition to the motion, indicates it agrees that its
responses must be amended and supplemented. 
It asks the Court to have until 12/04/23 to further respond and produce
documents.  
 
In reply, Plaintiff asks the Court
to grant the motion and order Defendant to further respond and to produce
documents by 12/04/23.  
 
Because the parties are in agreement
concerning the necessary relief, the motion is granted and Defendant is ordered
to serve further responses and produce documents in compliance with its promise
to do so on or before 12/04/23.  
 
Plaintiff does not seek imposition
of sanctions in connection with the moving papers, and none are imposed.  
 
3.         Case Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above MTCF.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements to
appear remotely at the hearing on the motion and the CMC.