 Case Number:  23AHCV01025    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ODETTE VIVANCO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
OTTIMO
   RESOURCES INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01025
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO TAX COSTS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 10,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Odette Vivanco (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against defendants Ottimo Resources Inc. and Pacific Clinics
on May 8, 2023. On April 11, 2024, the Court sustained the demurrer filed by
Pacific Clinics (“Defendant”) to Plaintiff’s operative First Amended Complaint without
leave to amend. Defendant filed a memorandum of costs and proposed judgment on
April 29, 2024. On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an objection to the memorandum
of costs. Plaintiff subsequently filed a noticed motion to strike or tax costs on
May 14, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Generally, the “prevailing party” is entitled
as a matter of right to recover costs for suit in any action or proceeding. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) “Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary
to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to
its preparation.” (Id., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).) “Allowable costs shall
be reasonable in amount.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).
The losing party may dispute any or all
of the items in the prevailing party’s memorandum of costs by a motion to
strike or tax costs. (CRC 3.1700(b).) Verification of the memorandum of costs
by the prevailing party’s attorney establishes a prima facie showing that the
claimed costs are proper. (Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
1258, 1267.) To overcome that prima facie showing, the objecting party must
introduce evidence to support its claim that the claimed costs were not
reasonably necessary to carry out the litigation. (Rappenecker v. Sea-Land
Service, Inc. (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 256, 266.) Where a motion to tax costs
is based on factual disputes as to nature or amount of particular costs, the
motion must be supported by declarations. (County of Kern v. Ginn (1983)
146 Cal.App.3d 1107, 1113-1114.) Mere conclusions that the item was “neither
necessary nor reasonable” do not satisfy the objecting party’s burden. (Id.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant’s
memorandum of costs in its entirety on the grounds that it was prematurely
filed. The premature filing of a memorandum of costs is treated as “a mere
irregularity at best” that does not constitute reversible error absent a
showing of prejudice. (Haley v. Casa Del Rey Homeowners Assn. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 863, 880.) Prematurely
filed cost bills are treated as being timely filed. (Id.) Although Plaintiff claims to have been prejudiced by
Defendant’s premature memorandum of costs, her claim is unsubstantiated.
Plaintiff argues that she was “forced” to “incur unnecessary attorney fees and
costs” by bringing this motion. (Reply, p. 2.) However, Plaintiff does not
contend that a motion was wholly unnecessary. Therefore, it appears only to be
an issue of when the motion needed to be filed, as opposed to whether one had
to be filed at all. This does not constitute a sufficient showing of prejudice.
Therefore, the motion to strike the costs bill in its entirety is DENIED. 
Alternatively, Plaintiff moves to tax
Defendant’s costs and requests that Defendant be awarded no more than $1,267.61
on the grounds that the costs incurred are either highly inflated or not
necessary. 
The challenged costs include $1,709
claimed for court reporter fees. “Court reporter fees as established by
statute” are expressly recoverable. (§ 1033.5, subd. (a)(11).) Plaintiff argues
that the two court reporter fees are “unreasonably high” at $750 and $959
because the hearings for which they were hired were less than an hour long. (Motion,
pp. 4-5.) Plaintiff includes no evidence that court reporters charge on an
hourly basis or that Defendant’s court reporters charged fees which were
outside the industry standard. Plaintiff only complains that Defendant failed
to provide any invoice or receipts with its cost bill, which is not a
requirement, and in any event, Defendant attached those invoices to its
opposition showing the rate of hire for court reporters for a half day. Even in
her reply brief, Plaintiff does not explain why she considers Defendant’s court
reporter fees to be “unreasonably high”, nor does she provide evidence in
support of her claim. (Reply, p. 3.) The motion to tax the court reporter fees
is DENIED. 
Plaintiff also challenges Defendant’s
cost of $803.08 for a court-ordered transcript from the March 6, 2024, hearing
on Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiff argues that the invoice
for the transcript only cost her $419.47, therefore Defendant should not have
paid more than that. The amount claimed by Defendant for the court-ordered
transcript is reasonable because the invoice attached to the Perera Declaration
identifies the cost of an original transcript, which is more expensive that
Plaintiff’s copy, as well as a fee to expedite the transcript, which was not
charged to Plaintiff. (Perera Decl., Ex. M.) Accordingly, the motion to tax the
cost of the transcript is DENIED. 
Last, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
electronic filing and service fees of $985.05 are either unnecessary or
unreasonably high. Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(a)(14) allows a
prevailing party to recover “[f]ees for the electronic filing or service of
documents through an electronic filing service provider if a court requires or
orders electronic filing or service of documents.” In addition, “[m]essenger
fees are not expressly authorized by statute, but may be allowed in the
discretion of the court”. (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111,
132.) 
Plaintiff contends that a reasonable
charge for routine electronic filings ranges from $15 to $17 dollars instead of
$70 or $80 but submits nothing in support other than a bare assertion in
counsel’s declaration. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant should not be able
to recover the costs for courtesy copies delivered to the courthouse because
they were “not required and therefore unnecessary.” However, the operative
First Amended General Order re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil requires
printed courtesy copies for pleadings and motions that include points and
authorities as well as demurrers; furthermore, the courtesy copies of
Defendant’s demurrers, motions to strike, and reply briefs were certainly used
by the Court. Therefore, the Courts denies the motion to tax these costs
incurred to prepare and deliver those courtesy copies. In addition, Plaintiff
disputes what she calls “a credit card charge”, but neglects to state that the
charge was incurred in connection with filing the demurrer and motion to
strike. 
Overall, the Court taxes $74 from
Defendant’s cost bill for fees associated with filing the notice of remote
appearance, which was not “reasonably necessary” to the conduct of the
litigation, rather than “merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).) 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion to strike the entire
memorandum of costs is DENIED. Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs is GRANTED in
the amount of $74. 
 
Dated
this 10th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 