 Case Number:  22NWCV00271    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  C SENIOR OPERATIONS LLC v. CERTIFIED RECORDS MANAGEMENT, LLC 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00271
HEARING:
 02/22/24
 
#1
 
Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (set one) is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part. Plaintiff is ORDERED to provide further
responses and documents to RPD Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, and 12 by no later
than 30 days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may
be extended by agreement of the parties. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
This
action for breach of contract was filed by Plaintiff SENIOR OPERATIONS LLC
(“Plaintiff”) on April 8, 2022. The operative Complaint alleges that: “Senior
Operations contracted with King Data Services… in 2003 to provide document
storage services…. The Contract required that King Data provide 30 days written
notice before implementing a change in rates. The Contract had no set term for
the length of the Contract or any penalty or break-up fee when the Contract or
business relationship ended.” (Complaint ¶7.) Certified Records acquired King
Data Services and assumed its obligations under the Contract with Senior
Operations in 2012. (Complaint ¶9.) Certified records allegedly imposed
unilateral rate increases without notice to Senior Operations. Due to the rate
increases, Senior Operations decided to move its documents to another document
storage provider. (Complaint ¶¶11-12.) “In April 2021, Certified Records issued
a fee quote requiring Senior Operations to pay $183,462,78 if Senior Operations
wanted to remove its documents from storage. This break-up and penalty fee has
no relation to and far exceeds the actual labor costs Certified Records would
incur to simply put Senior Operations’ boxes of records on its dock for
pick-up. Rather, Certified Records insisted on this fee as a penalty and
disincentive for Senior Operations to move its record storage needs elsewhere.
Senior Operations never agreed verbally or in writing to this penalty and
break-up fee.” (Complaint ¶13.) 
 
The
Complaint asserts the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Violations of California’s Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA); and (3)
Violations of the California Unfair Competition Law (UCL). 
 
On
June 3, 2022, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint seeking, in part, a judicial
determination with respect to its “ability to destroy [Plaintiff’s] belongings
that are stored in [Defendant’s] custody.” (XC ¶27.) The XC asserts causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; and (2) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On
October 17, 2023, this Court granted Plaintiff’s application for a writ of
possession. 
 
Defendant now moves for an order to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to Request for Production of Documents (set one) 
 
According to Defendant’s Separate Statement,
the following RPDs are at issue: 
 
·       
RPD No. 2. ALL
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and CERTIFIED RELATED TO the allegation of YOUR
complaint. 
·       
RPD No. 3. ALL
DOCUMENTS supporting YOUR contention in paragraph 11 of YOUR Complaint that
CERTIFIED increased rates for document storage that “far exceed market rates
for similar services and more than five times their true value and cost.” 
·       
RPD No. 4. ALL
DOCUMENTS supporting YOUR contention in paragraph 12 of YOUR Complaint that
CERTIFIED’S increase in documents storage rates were “exorbitant and
unreasonable.” 
·       
RPD No. 5. ALL
DOCUMENTS supporting YOUR contention that SENIOR’S outstanding invoices and
fees due to CERTIFIED upon SENIOR’S termination of the CONTRACT, on or about
March 2021, with CERTIFIED are “egregious and unconscionable because they are
substantially higher than the average market rate, are unreasonable with no
relation to costs incurred, and are intended to be punitive to prevent clients
from transferring their records and property to other service providers[,]” as
stated in paragraph 14 of YOUR Complaint.
·       
RPD No. 7. All
non-privileged COMMUNICATIONS internally that mention or refer to CERTIFIED. 
·       
RPD No. 8. ALL
COMMUNICATIONS that mention “KING” RELATED TO this lawsuit sent, received,
created, modified, or reviewed on or after September 1, 2020. 
·       
RPD No. 10. All
DOCUMENTS supporting any damages YOU claim to have suffered arising out of the
allegations of YOUR complaint. 
·       
RPD No. 11. All
non-privileged COMMUNICATIONS with any third-party that mention or refer to
CERTIFIED. 
·       
RPD No. 12. All
DOCUMENTS that support YOUR contention in paragraph 28 of YOUR Complaint that
YOU are a “consumer” under California’s Consumers Legal Remedies Act. 
 
Defendant argues that further responses are
warranted because: (1) Senior refuses to clarify whether it is withholding or
intends to withhold any documents based on any of the asserted objections (save
for privilege); (2) for all responses where Senior has agreed to produce
documents, Senior refuses to agree to amend its responses to state that Senior
will produce all response documents in its possession, custody, or control as
required by the CCP; (3) Senior has failed to produce any email correspondence
despite its assertions to the contrary; and (4) Senior has refused to produce
any responsive documents to RPD Nos. 11 and 12. (Cesar Decl., ¶13.) 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues: (1) there is
no duty to confirm if documents are being withheld due to a particular
objection—except for privilege; (2) There is no duty to respond to discovery
using any specific language; (3) Plaintiff’s objections were appropriate as to
RPD Nos. 11 and 12; and (4) Plaintiff raised appropriate and valid objections,
but stated that it would produce communication between Defendant and Plaintiff
and has done so. Plaintiff also argues that “it has been impossible for Senior
Aerospace to conduct a reasonable search for all its potentially responsive
documents” because Defendant has refused Plaintiff access to its stored records
since March 2021. These stored records are dated from 2003 to December 2020,
and “include materials from Senior Aerospace’s accounting, purchasing, and
contracts personnel.” (Opp. 2:6-9.) The Court notes that Plaintiff has failed
to file or lodge a Separate Statement in Opposition to the Moving Party’s
Separate Statement in support of the instant Motion. 
 
This Motion was filed on September
8, 2023. On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff produced 1 additional document. This
Motion was initially heard on November 16, 2023. On the November 16, 2023, this
matter was CONTINUED to January 11, 2024 and Counsel were instructed to further meet
and confer on the issues outlined in the subject Motion and file a Joint
Statement. (11/16/23, Order). 
 
The Joint Statement
filed on January 8, 2024 indicates that Plaintiff produced 2,172 pages of
invoices, emails, and other documents on December 18, 2023— after this Motion
was filed, and after the November 16, 2023 hearing took place. (Joint Stmt.
2:20-24.) Defendant states: “Certified is still reviewing the recent production
and reserves further comment.” (Id.) 
 
The documents produced
on January 8, 2024 are not substantively addressed in the parties’ Joint
Statement, and are not properly at issue before the Court at this time. In the
Joint Statement, Defendant indicates that “[n]one of the issues raised the
Motion… have been adequately addressed, if at all [and] [t]he productions are
also inadequate….” (Joint Statement 2:25-27.) In response, Plaintiff argues
that it “has and continues to comply with its duties under California’s
discovery rules. It is Certified that is failing to comply with its duties to
search and produce relevant documents and inform opposing counsel of documents
designated as privileged.” (Joint Statement 8:11-15.) The parties were not able
to informally resolve any of the discovery disputes outlined in the subject
Motion. 
 
“On receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A state of compliance with the
demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).) 
 
A motion to compel further
responses to a request for production “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (CCP
§2031.310(b).) 
 
RPD Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7,
8, and 10
 
The Motion is GRANTED
as to RPD Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 10. 
 
As to RPD No. 2,
Plaintiff responds: “Without waiving any objection, Senior will produce
documents in its possession responsive to this request.” This response does not
suffice. As to RPD Nos. 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 10, Plaintiff responds: “Without
waiving any objection, Senior will produce non-privileged documents in its
possession responsive to this request.” 
 
First, the Court finds
that the discovery sought is relevant. Defendant should be able to conduct
discovery on issues pertinent to aid in their defense of Plaintiff’s claims.
Moreover, despite Plaintiff’s initial responses, at this time, it is unclear as
to whether any responsive documents have actually been produced. 
 
Second, if f Plaintiff
is not able to comply with a demand or a portion thereof, then it must state so
in compliance with the standard set forth by CCP §2031.230 “A representation of
inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,
custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the
name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by
that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item.” (CCP §2031.230.) 
 
Lastly, to the extent
that any information/documents are withheld on grounds of privilege, the Court
finds that Plaintiff fails to demonstrate how identification of the documents
or information sought would reveal attorney-work product. Hernandez. v. Sup.
Ct. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 294 states that a party has “no right to
refuse to identify documents in response to interrogatories, even if they may
properly refuse to produce them later, based upon a claim of privilege.” Plaintiff
must identify the privileged information in a privilege log with sufficient particularity
to permit the propounding party and the Court, if necessary, to evaluate the
basis of the privilege claim. “[A] privilege log typically should provide the
identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each
allegedly privileged document, the document’s date, a brief description of the
document and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether the
privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.” (Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Sup. Ct. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130.) 
 
RPD No. 11 
 
The Motion is DENIED as
to RPD No. 11. “All non-privileged COMMUNICATIONS with any third-party that
mention or refer to CERTIFIED” is vague and overbroad in scope and time. The
request is not limited to the discovery of information relevant to this action.
Defendant is not foreclosed from serving more narrowly tailored discovery
requests in the future. 
 
RPD No. 12. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED
as to RPD No. 12. Plaintiff has a claim based on Defendant’s purported
violation(s) of the CLRA. As such, discovery regarding whether Plaintiff is a
“consumer” for purposes of maintaining the CLRA claim is relevant to this action.

 
Sanctions 
 
Given the mixed ruling, sanctions are DENIED. 
 
Counsel are reminded
that meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending correspondence
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) 
 
 