  Case Number:  21CMCV00247    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  A 21CMCV00247
 City of Carson v. James H. Cloudman, et al.
Friday,
 October 27, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING  CITY OF
 CARSON’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE ADJUDICATION
 AGAINST DEFENDANT, JAMES H. CLOUDMAN
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
I.         
FACTS
      The
complaint alleges that Defendant, James H. Cloudman, who owns the real property
at issue, failed to remedy conditions on the property, creating a nuisance. Plaintiff
alleges claims for public nuisance per se and public nuisance. ­­­ Defendant
Bank of New York Mellon (“Bank”) is Trustee with a beneficial interest in the
real property. (Complaint ¶ 11.) Defendant, MTC Financial became the
substituted trustee. (Complaint, ¶ 12.)
      Bank filed
its amended answer to the complaint on December 2, 2021. The clerk entered
default against Defendant, Advantix Lending, Inc. and Ditech Financial LLC, December
10, 2021. Plaintiff dismissed MTC Financial on October 13, 2021. 
      Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment or summary adjudication in its favor against
Defendant, James H. Cloudman (“Cloudman”), the property owner. The material
undisputed facts establish nuisance per se, because the City declared that the
conditions at the property violated various municipal codes and were injurious
in nature and effect. There is no dispute that the Cloudman’s conduct created a
condition that was harmful to health of the occupants and the community.
      The
motion was timely served on all parties. No opposition has been filed by
October 13, 2023 (14 days before the hearing.) (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c (a)
(2).)
                                                                                                                                              
II.        
LEGAL STANDARDS
      Summary judgment is proper “if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) As the moving
party, Plaintiff’s burden is to produce admissible evidence on each element of
a cause of action entitling him or her to judgment. (§437c(p)(1).) If that threshold burden is established, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to show a triable issue of one or more material facts. (Code
Civ. Proc., §437c(p)(1).)
      A
party may move for summary adjudication “as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, [or] that there is no merit to a claim for [punitive] damages.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c. subd.(f)(1).)
      The
court applies the three-step analysis to motions for summary judgment or
adjudication: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine
whether the moving party established facts which negate the opponents’ claim,
(3) if the moving party meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden
shifts, determine whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with
admissible evidence. (Torres
v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836.)

                                                                                                                                                        
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.      Nuisance
Per Se
      In pertinent part, a nuisance is defined
as anything injurious to health or is indecent or offensive to the senses, so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
(Cal
Civ Code § 3479.) A public nuisance is one that affects an
entire community or neighborhood at the same time.  (Cal
Civ Code § 3480.) A nuisance per se is found where the activity
or circumstance at issue is expressly declared to be a nuisance by its very
existence by some applicable law. (Beck
Development Co. v. Southern Pacific Transportation Co. (1996) 52
Cal.Rptr.2d 518.)
      The
material facts are not in dispute.  The
condition of the property alleged to be a nuisance related to the unpermitted underground
plumbing among other conditions all in violation of the Carson Municipal Code.
(UF 2-3.[1]).
The conditions also violated the Los Angeles Building Code, Los Angeles
Plumbing Code, and Health and Safety Code (UF 48.) Over the course of three
years, Plaintiff issued warnings and notices of violations and criminal
violations requiring Defendant Cloudman to bring the property into compliance,
however, Defendant Cloudman continuously refused to comply. (UF 4-24.) 
      Plaintiff
commenced this action on September 22, 2021. Over the course of one year,
Plaintiff continued to attempt to bring the property into compliance despite
Cloudman’s recalcitrance (UF 29-38.) The plumbing and building permit were
eventually finalized, and the violations were abated on August 25, 2022. (UF
39-40).
      On
September 26, 2022, Plaintiff sent Cloudman a demand letter for reimbursement
of costs and fees associated with the abatement of the nuisance totaling
$23,982.58, which Defendant refused to pay. (UF 41-47). 
      Plaintiff’s
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action is established if
that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party
to judgment on the cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c.)  Once the plaintiff
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto. (Id.) The undisputed facts
referenced above are sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden. 
                                                                                                                                                      
IV.       
CONCLUSION
      As all
material facts are not in dispute, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Judgment against Defendant, James H. Cloudman. 


