 Case Number:  23SMCV03547    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Celious v. Nustats LLC, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV03547


Complaint Filed:


8-3-23 




Hearing Date:


2-6-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


16


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
PROCESS FOR LACK OF PJ
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Ryan McCutchan
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Aaron Celious
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Ryan McCutchan’s Motion to Quash Service of
Process for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff Aaron Celious’s RJN 2 and 6 is GRANTED as to 2
and 6 as to the existence of the documents, but not to the truth of the
contents. Plaintiff Aaron Celious’s RJN 1, 3, 4, and 5 are DENIED. (See Golden
Door Properties, LLC v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 733, 761 [“The request for judicial notice of exhibit No. 35, an
e-mail exchange, is denied also because it is not properly the subject of
judicial notice.” LaChance v. Valverde (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 779, 783,
143 Cal.Rptr.3d 703 [denying request for judicial notice of e-mail].  (Gould v. Maryland Sound Industries, Inc.
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1144. “[T]he existence of a contract between
private parties cannot be established by judicial notice under Evidence Code
section 452, subdivision (h)].”)
 
            Defendant Ryan McCutchan’s Objections to Plaintiff’s RJN
2 and 6 are OVERRULED, and 1, 3, 4 and 5 are MOOT. 
 
REASONING
 
“California's
long-arm statute authorizes California courts to exercise jurisdiction on any
basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of California. A state court's assertion of personal jurisdiction
over a nonresident defendant who has not been served with process within the
state comports with the requirements of the due process clause of the federal
Constitution if the defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the
assertion of jurisdiction does not violate “ ‘traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice.’ ” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 434, 444, citing International Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945)
326 U.S. 310, 316; see Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10; see also Burnham v.
Superior Court (1990) 495 U.S. 604, 618–619.) “Personal jurisdiction
may be either general or specific.” (Vons Companies, Inc., supra,
14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
 
“When
a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction.” Vons Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
“Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established,
however, it becomes the defendant's burden to demonstrate that the exercise of
jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Ibid.)
 
I.               
Plaintiff does not argue the Court has general jurisdiction
over McCutchan.
 
“A
nonresident defendant may be subject to the general jurisdiction of the
forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are “substantial ... continuous
and systematic.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.)  Plaintiff
Aaron Celious (“Celious”) does not argue or submit any evidence to demonstrate
that the Court has general jurisdiction over the Defendant Ryan McCutchan
(“McCutchan”). 
 
II.            
Specific Jurisdiction 
 
As
the party asserting jurisdiction over McCutchan, Celious is responsible for
establishing all elements of specific jurisdiction.  (See Ziller
Electronics Lab GmbH v. Sup. Ct. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.) 
“When determining whether specific jurisdiction exists, courts consider the
relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation. A court may
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2)
the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with
the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with
‘fair play and substantial justice.’” (Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung
Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553, citing Pavlovich v.
Supr. Ct. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268; Farina v. SAVWCL III, LLC
(2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 286, 294.)
 
A.             
Purposeful Availment
 
“The
purposeful availment inquiry focuses on the defendant's intentionality. 
This prong is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily
directs his activities toward the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of
the benefit he receives, to be subject to the court's jurisdiction based on his
contacts with the forum.”  (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 269.) 
“When a defendant purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting
activities within the forum State, it has clear notice that it is subject to
suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by
procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers, or, if the
risks are too great, severing its connection with the State.”  (Id.)
 
Purposeful
action directed at a forum resident has been described by the Supreme Court as
sufficient contacts for specific jurisdiction over a particular
defendant.  (See Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S.
462, 472.)  The purposeful availment requirement is intended to prevent
jurisdiction to be exercised over a non-resident based upon random, fortuitous
or attenuated contacts or of the unilateral activity of another party or a
third person.  (See Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 268.) 
“Parties who reach out beyond one state and create continuing relationships and
obligations with citizens of another are subject to regulation and sanctions in
the other State for the consequences of their activities.”  (Burger
King Corp, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 473; Hall v. LaRonde (1997)
56 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1344 [the use of electronic mail and the telephone by a
party in another state may establish sufficient minimum contacts with
California to support personal jurisdiction]; Stone v. State of Tex.
(1999)  
76 Cal.App.4th 1043,
1048–49.) “If the question is whether an individual's contract with an
out-of-state party alone can automatically establish sufficient minimum
contacts in the other party's home forum, we believe the answer clearly is that
it cannot. (Burger King Corp., supra, 471 U.S. at p. 478.)
 
            McCutchen shows there was no purposeful availment because
McCutchen was not a party to the contract at issue, McCutchan was not involved
with the contract at issue, and McCutchan was never in California in a way that
related to the allegations in the complaint. (See Motion, p. 12; McCutchan
Decl. [p. 16 of motion], ¶¶ 8, 9, 10, 11.  Further, McCutchen shows there was no
purposeful direction because the allegations do not show McCutchan’s express
aiming at California because no part of McCutchen’s conduct occurred in
California. (See Motion, p. 12–13; McCutchan Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9, 10, 11.)
 
            Celious argues McCuthan is subject to California
jurisdiction based on McCutchen’s numerous contacts with California during the
period giving rise to this lawsuit. More specifically, Celious argues McCutchan
conducted business in California as an agent of NuStats where McCutchen
identified “California-based government contracts to bid on and, when such
contracts were obtained working on those contracts, and benefitting from the
income they produced.” (Oppo., at p. 5; Celious Dec., ¶ 7.) 
 
The
evidence Celious submits to prove that McCutchan conducted business in
California as an agent during the years at issue, RJN Ex. 6, does not state
McCutchen’s name anywhere within the documents, and further, the document
states the work is to be performed in Austin, TX, not California. (See RJN, Ex.
6.) Celious declares that RJN Exhibit 6 was prepared and submitted by McCutchan
on 10-26-15, but there is no persuasive evidence within the document (or
otherwise) that McCutchan had anything to do with this document, let alone the
document having any relation to California. 
 
i.             
Personal jurisdiction based on contract law.
 
            Celious argues that “contract law” subjects McCutchan to California
jurisdiction based on “breaching the subject contract with Metro,” stating it
is undisputed that McCutchen caused Maroon, Celious’ company, “to be
substituted with Nisha Shah.” (Oppo., ¶ 6, citing to Verified Complaint ¶ 35,
RJN, Ex.2, “October 2015 Proposal”) Again, the evidence provided by Celious
does not prove that McCutchen breached a contract, nor that McCutchen even
entered into a contract with Celious. The October 2015 Proposal does state that
McCutchen prepared the documents, but it was Martin Kunzman, NuStats President/CEO,
who signed the proposals. (See October 2015 Proposal; Suppl. McCutchen Decl., ¶
7.) McCutchan declares he “did not have the authority to finalize or submit
proposals/applications to Metro or any other agency or company,” and that if a
proposal was accepted he would often be the person to notify the subcontractor.
(Suppl. McCutchen Decl., ¶ 3.) The evidence persuasively show McCutchen did not
enter into the contract as argued by Celious, and thus McCutchen is not bound
by the contract. 
 
 
ii.           
Personal jurisdiction based on McCutchen’s
alleged torts.
 
To
analyze specific jurisdiction for causes of action arising from torts,
California courts employ the “effects test “requiring the plaintiff to show (1)
the defendant committed an intentional tort; (2) the plaintiff felt the brunt
of the harm caused by that tort in the forum state such that the forum state
was the focal point of the plaintiff's injury; and (3) the defendant expressly
aimed the tortious conduct at the forum state such that the forum state was the
focal point of the tortious activity.” (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015)
233 Cal.App.4th 8, 19–20.) “To satisfy the third prong, the plaintiff must show
the defendant knew that the plaintiff would suffer the brunt of the harm caused
by the tortious conduct in the forum, and point to specific activity indicating
that the defendant expressly aimed its tortious conduct at the forum.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted.)
 
Celious
argues McCutchen’s alleged tortious conduct subjects McCutchen to the court’s
jurisdiction stating McCutchen’s intentionally substituted Maroon with Nisha
Shah when the contract required McCutchen use Maroon, and this act was
expressly aimed at California (Oppo., p. 7:10–27; Verified Complaint, ¶ 35.) Celious
argues “McCutchan’s role in substituting Maroon off the contract, post award,
violated the legislative intent of California’s PCC §4100.”
 
McCutchen
shows the alleged tortious interference was conducted entirely in Texas without
entering California. McCutchen shows the allegations of monetary loss as a
result of the alleged contractual interference is not tied to California, “as
it would have occurred in any state in which Plaintiff chose to locate himself
and conduct his business.” (Reply, p. 8; see Farris v. Capt. J.B. Fronapfel
Co. (1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 982, 900 [“ No acts were performed
by Fronapfel in California. The only ‘effect’ of the fraud alleged to
have been committed by Fronapfel would be [plaintiff’s] loss of money on the
transaction. While it might be argued that there was an effect in California in
the sense that the loss of the ability to use and resell the vessel would take
place in California, the same could be said of every purchase that takes place
out of California with knowledge by the seller that the goods may be used in
California.”] 
 
Celious
has not provided any persuasive evidence to substantiate the claims other than providing
a proposal that McCutchen allegedly prepared in Austin, TX on 10-23-15. “[M]erely
asserting the defendant knew or should have known that his or her intentional
acts would cause harm in the forum state is not enough to establish
jurisdiction. Rather, additional evidence of express aiming or intentional
targeting” is required to establish jurisdiction under the effects test.” (DVI,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1098–1099.) At most October
2015 Proposal demonstrates that McCutchen took part in preparing proposals for
the company he worked for at the time, NuStats. (See Suppl. McCutchen Decl., 5–10.)
The Court finds that Celious has not met the burden to demonstrate purposeful
availment on the basis of the tort claims 
 
B.
The controversy is not related to or arise out of the defendant’s contacts with
the forum. 
 
A
lawsuit arises out of a defendant’s forum-related contacts if “there is a
substantial nexus or connection between the defendant’s forum activities and
the plaintiff’s claim.”  (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1068.)  The ‘arising out of or relating to’
standard is in the disjunctive, and is intended as a relaxed, flexible
standard.”  (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Limited (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1573.  “A claim need not arise directly from the
defendant's forum contacts in order to be sufficiently related to the contact
to warrant the exercise of specific jurisdiction.  Moreover, the forum
contacts need not be directed at the plaintiff in order to warrant the exercise
of specific jurisdiction.  Indeed, only when the operative
facts of the controversy are not related to the defendant's contact with the
state can it be said that the cause of action does not arise from that
contact.”  (Snowney v. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1054, 1068.) 
 
As
analyzed above, Celious does not provide any persuasive evidence to establish a
substantial connection between McCutchen’s forum activities and Celious’s claim,
nor does Celious provide any additional arguments than stated above to meet
this requirement.
 
C. 
It would be unreasonable for California to exercise personal jurisdiction over
McCutchen. 
 
Once
a plaintiff shows that the nonresident defendant has “purposefully availed”
itself of benefits and protections of forum law, that defendant bears the
burden of proving it would be unreasonable for local courts to exercise
jurisdiction, i.e. violate notions of fair play and substantial justice.  (Burger
King Corp, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 475.) 
 
 In
determining whether assertion of jurisdiction would be unreasonable, the court
must consider (1) the burden on the defendant; (2) the forum State's interest
in adjudicating the dispute; (3) the plaintiff's interest in obtaining
convenient and effective relief; (4) the interstate judicial system's interest
in obtaining the most efficient resolution of controversies; and (5) the shared
interest of the several States in furthering fundamental substantive social
policies.  (See World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444
US 286, 292.)
 
Celious
has not shown that McCutchen has purposefully availed himself to the California
courts, but even if McCutchen had done so, McCutchen meets his burden of
proving it would be unreasonable for California courts to exercise
jurisdiction. McCutchen is a resident of Texas, he never lived or owned
property in California, and worked as project manager in Texas for a company
based in Texas. (McCutchen Decl., ¶ 2, 4, 5, 8.) McCutchen declares, and the October
2015 Proposal shows, he was not a party to the contract at issue with the
breach of contract claim, nor did McCutchen have “authority to contract with
any party on behalf of NuStats.” (Id., 8; see Clemens v. American
Warranty Corp. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 444, 452 [“Under California law, only
a signatory to a contract may be liable for any breach.”]; see also Mintz v.
Blue Cross of California (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594, 1604 [“it is settled
that “corporate agents and employees acting for and on behalf of a corporation
cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the corporation's contract.”].) McCutchen
declares all the meetings and correspondence related to the complaint took
place outside California, nor has McCutchen had any personal business dealings
with Celious. (Id., ¶¶10, 11, 12.) The Court finds it would be
unreasonable for McCutchen to be forced to personally defend Celious claims in
California.
 