  Case Number:  23STCV16017    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GEORGE RAHME, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
THE BICYCLE CASINO, L.P., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
         


 Case No: 
  23STCV16017
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 6, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Defendant TBC, L.P. (“TBC”) (TBC states that it was
erroneously sued as “The Bicycle Casino, Inc.”) moves the Court for an order
compelling Plaintiff George Rahme (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate his claims against
TBC and staying this action.
 
The Court DENIES TBC’s motion.  
 
Background
 
            This
is an employment case. Plaintiff worked for TBC for approximately 35 years. In
April 2022, TBC was sold to Parkwest Bicycle Casino LLC. Over 1,500 employees
were terminated as part of this transaction, including Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on July 10, 2023 against TBC and Hashem Minaly, raising
claims for (1) discrimination; (2) hostile work environment; (3) failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation; (5) breach of express oral
contract not to terminate employment without good cause; (6) breach of
implied-in-fact contract not to terminate employment without good cause; (7)
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; (8) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (9) whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code,
section 1102.5; and (10) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).
 
            TBC
filed this motion on January 25, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition and TBC
filed a reply.
 
Discussion
 
The Arbitration Provisions
 
TBC submits copies of two arbitration agreements (the
“Arbitration Agreements”) purportedly signed by Plaintiff. (Stephens Decl., Ex.
A.) Both agreements state that Plaintiff and TBC will forego their right to
bring any claims arising out of their employment relationship in Court, in
favor of arbitration.
 
Because Plaintiff’s claims arise out of his employment
relationship with TBC, they fall within the ambit of the Arbitration
Agreements.
 
Mutual Assent
 
The Court has already made a factual determination that
Plaintiff signed the 2018 Arbitration Agreement.
 
The Court also finds that Plaintiff has wasted the parties’
resources by demanding and receiving an evidentiary hearing on the issue of
whether he signed the 2018 Arbitration Agreement.  Plaintiff had no good faith basis to deny the
assertion that he signed the Arbitration Agreement.
 
Unconscionability
 
“‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court
to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation] But they need not be present in the
same degree. “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.” [Citation] In other words, the more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
114 (Armendariz).)
 
Procedural Unconscionability
 
“‘Procedural unconscionability’ concerns the manner in which
the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time.
It focuses on factors of oppression and surprise. The oppression component
arises from an inequality of bargaining power of the parties to the contract
and an absence of real negotiation or a meaningful choice on the part of the
weaker party. The component of surprise arises when the challenged terms are
‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281.)
 
Where a contract of adhesion includes the unequal bargaining
power of contracting parties, with the weaker party's inability to negotiate,
this may indicate procedural unconscionability in the form of oppression. (See Thompson v. Toll Dublin, LLC (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1360, 1372.) “The term ‘adhesion contract' refers to standardized
contract forms offered to consumers of goods and services on essentially a
‘take it or leave it' basis without affording the consumer a realistic
opportunity to bargain and under such conditions that the consumer cannot
obtain the desired product or services except by acquiescing in the form
contract. [Citations.] The distinctive feature of a contract of adhesion is
that the weaker party has no realistic choice as to its terms. [Citations.]” (Wheeler v. St. Joseph Hospital (1976) 63
Cal.App.3d 345, 356.)  
 
“[A] compulsory pre-dispute arbitration agreement is not
rendered unenforceable just because it is required as a condition of employment
or offered on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis.” (Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.
App. 4th 1105, 1127.) However, the fact that an arbitration agreement is
mandatory for employment may be a factor in determining that it is procedurally
unconscionable. (See, e.g., Trivedi v.
Curexo Technology Corp. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 387, 393; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp. 114-115.) Where a
contract of adhesion includes the unequal bargaining power of contracting
parties, with the weaker party's inability to negotiate, this may indicate
procedural unconscionability in the form of oppression. (See Thompson v. Toll Dublin, LLC (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1360, 1372.)
 
“Ordinarily when a person with capacity of reading and
understanding an instrument signs it, he may not, in the absence of fraud,
imposition or excusable neglect, avoid its terms on the ground he failed to
read it before signing it.” (Ramirez v. Superior Court (1980) 103
Cal.App.3d 746, 754 [internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
Here, Plaintiff was never given the opportunity to negotiate
the terms of the Arbitration Agreements. (Rahme Decl. ¶ 3.) As discussed above,
this creates a slight, but extant, degree of procedural unconscionability.
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Because the Private Attorney General Act (“PAGA”) is
established for a public reason, it cannot be contravened by a private
agreement. (Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59
Cal.4th 348, 383, abrogated by Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana
(2022) 596 U.S. 639.) An employee therefore cannot waive the right to pursue a non-individual
PAGA claims in court. (Ibid.) Thus, even a Plaintiff who is compelled to
arbitrate their individual PAGA claims retains standing to litigate their
non-individual claims in court. (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.
 
            Here,
the Arbitration Agreements explicitly strip Plaintiff of his right to pursue
PAGA claims. (Stephens Decl., Ex. A at p. 3, ¶ 3.) This waiver does not even
limit itself to representative PAGA claims, appearing to cover all PAGA claims.

 
Although TBC argues that the Court should sever any
substantively unconscionable portions of the arbitration agreements, the
agreement states that “the Private Attorney General Waiver shall not be
severable under any circumstances.” (Stephens Decl., Ex. A at p. 3, ¶ 3.) Where
“[a] severability clause in the agreement provides that if the [PAGA] waiver
provision is invalid in some respect, any ‘portion’ of the waiver that remains
valid must still be ‘enforced in arbitration,’” a party is entitled to enforce the
enforceable parts of the agreement and have the unenforceable parts severed. (Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 662.) Here, however,
the agreement expressly disclaims severability of the PAGA waiver in both
paragraph 3 and in paragraph 6, the general severability clause (“In [sic] any
term, provision, or portion of this Agreement is declared void or
unenforceable, it shall be severed and the remainder of this Agreement shall be
enforceable, except as provided in section 3 above”). (Stephens Decl.,
Ex. A at p. 4, ¶ 6 [emphasis added].)
 
Thus, even though Plaintiff does not bring PAGA claims in
this action, the Arbitration Agreements contain an unconscionable and
unseverable clause. (See Demarinis v. Heritage Bank of Commerce (2023)
98 Cal.App.5th 776, 782 [“poison pill” in arbitration agreement renders the provision
non-severable]; Westmoreland v. Kindercare Education, LLC (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 967, 972 [same].) The Court therefore finds that the Arbitration
Agreements are substantively unconscionable.
 
2001 Agreement
 
TBC argues that if the 2018 Arbitration Agreement is
unenforceable, the Court should reach back 17 years and enforce the 2001
Agreement instead of the 2018 Agreement that superseded it. TBC provides no
legal or factual basis for the Court to do so. 
Because of the lack of support for such argument—especially given the
extensive hearings and briefings that this matter has consumed thus far—the Court
considers this argument to be waived. 
Even if it were not waived, the Court finds the argument unpersuasive.  