 Case Number:  23STCV24320    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



SEUNG HEE SEO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
YOUNG HEE CHOI, D.D.S, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV24320
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 6, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendants Young Hee Choi, D.D.S. and Young Choi Dental Group
aka Mee Dental Group Inc. (sued as Mee Dental Young Choi Dental Group aka Mee
Dental Group) (“Mee Dental Group”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move to strike
portions of the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Seung Hee
Seo (“Plaintiff”) relating to punitive damages.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing of a motion seeking
leave to state a prayer for punitive damages under Code of Civil Procedure,
section 425.13, subd. (a).
 
The Court GRANTs the motion to strike as to Plaintiff’s
malice and oppression allegations with leave to amend.  Plaintiff may amend within 20 days if
Plaintiff chooses to do so.
 
The Court DENIES the motion to strike Plaintiff’s fraud
allegations. 
 
Background
 
This is a dental malpractice action. The following facts are
taken from the allegations in the FAC.
 
Plaintiff presented to Defendants on July 8, 2022 for a
routine teeth cleaning and scaling. After a dental exam, Defendants advised
Plaintiff that the extraction of six teeth was recommended. Choi explained that
the teeth were loose, although Plaintiff alleges that she had never experienced
any sensation of the six teeth being loose or shifting.
 
The parties scheduled an extraction for July 15, 2022.
There, Defendants clarified to Plaintiff that only two of the six teeth were to
be extracted that day, and the remaining four teeth would be extracted at a
later date. After the administration of anesthesia, Choi suggested that it
would be preferable to extract all six teeth at once. Choi presented a blank
consent form for Plaintiff to sign while she was disoriented from the
anesthesia before going under.
 
Plaintiff alleges that there was a heightened risk to
extracting all six teeth at once, of which Defendants did not inform her. As a
result of the extraction, Plaintiff was unable to speak for approximately five
months and lost roughly 20 pounds because she struggled to eat properly.
 
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants on October 6,
2023. The operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims for (1)
dental negligence; (2) lack of informed consent; (3) negligent
misrepresentation; and (4) medical battery.
 
Defendants filed the motion to strike on March 14, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages (FAC at p. 17:10-11) and Plaintiff’s allegations of malice, fraud, and
oppression (FAC at p. 15:25-28.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages must be stricken pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure, section 425.13, under which a Plaintiff must seek
leave of Court before demanding punitive damages against a health care
provider. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13.) Plaintiff agrees and states that she
will comply with the procedural requirement for seeking punitive damages.
(Opposition at p. 2:21-24.)
 
            Plaintiff
does contest Defendant’s motion to strike her malice, fraud, and oppression
allegations.
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “intentionally or
negligently” made false representations to her “by falsely claiming that the
six teeth were loose with a business profit motive, ultimately aiming to charge
her for costly implant procedures.” (FAC at p. 14:7-9.) These allegations
support Plaintiff’s allegation of fraud.
 
Plaintiff does not provide a reason why her allegations of
malice or oppression should not be stricken. The Court therefore grants the
motion to strike as to Plaintiff’s malice and oppression allegations with leave
to amend.  The Court denies the motion as
to Plaintiff’s fraud allegations. 