 Case Number:  24STCV00841    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DONG GUO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
HUAN GUO, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV00841
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 6, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
Defendants Han Guo, Yun Zhou, and Maili Li (collectively,
“Moving Defendants”) demur to the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Dong Guo
(“Plaintiff”). Moving Defendants also move to strike portions of the Complaint
relating to punitive damages. Guo moves separately from Zhou and Li, who join
together in their demurrer and motion to strike.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrers to Plaintiff’s first claim
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiff may amend his complaint within 20 days of the
issuance of this order.
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrers to Plaintiff’s second and
third claims.
 
The Court DENIES the motions to strike.
 
Background
 
This is a defamation case. The following facts are taken
from the allegations of the Complaint, which the Court accepts as true for the
purposes of the demurrer.
 
Plaintiff was the CEO of 4PX Express USA (“4PX”). Plaintiff voluntarily
left his employment with 4PX on June 2, 2022.
 
In the time leading up to Plaintiff’s resignation, Moving
Defendants and Cainiao Supply Chain US (collectively, “Defendants”) were
allegedly involved in a scheme to steal merchandise belonging to others that
was stored in 4PX’s facilities. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were
concerned that Plaintiff would discover this conduct and fire them.
 
Plaintiff also made complaints regarding alleged financial
improprieties which Plaintiff believed Guo committed. Plaintiff alleges that
Guo sought the assistance of the other defendants to make false reports about
Plaintiff in retaliation for Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants contacted the Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department (“LACSD”) on May 6, 2022 and made an incident
report that Plaintiff had been fired and that Defendants feared for their lives
that Plaintiff would return to work and kill them in a mass shooting. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants repeated these allegations to LACSD on multiple
occasions over the next several months.
 
On October 2022, Plaintiff was hired to be the CEO of GCE
Group, Inc. (“GCE”) and to be the general manager of New Era.
 
Plaintiff alleges that he was arrested by LACSD on April 12,
2023 as a result of Defendants’ alleged report and subsequent statements to
investigators. Plaintiff was detained in a jail cell against his will. The Los
Angeles District Attorney did not file a case against Plaintiff.
 
As a result of the arrest, GCE and New Era terminated
Plaintiff’s employment.
 
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants on January
11, 2024, raising claims for (1) intentional infliction of emotional distress
(“IIED”); (2) defamation; and (3) false imprisonment.
 
On May 7, 2024, Guo filed his demurrer and motion to strike.
On May 8, 2024, Zhou and Li filed their demurrer and motion to strike.
Plaintiff filed a single opposition to both demurrers together and a single
opposition to both motions to strike together. Guo filed replies in support of
each of his motions, and Zhou and Li filed replies in support of each of their
motions.
 
Legal Standard
 
Demurrer
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Demurrer
 
            Moving
Defendants argue that the Complaint omits key facts showing that Plaintiff sent
threatening messages to Defendants over WeChat. Because these facts do not
appear on the face of the Complaint or in judicially noticeable materials, the
Court cannot consider them. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co., supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.)
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – First Claim
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and
ellipses omitted.)
 
            Moving
Defendants argue that the Complaint does not allege extreme or outrageous
conduct because their police reports were based on the threatening WeChat
messages that Moving Defendants contend Plaintiff sent. This is a factual
contest not appropriately resolved on demurrer. As alleged in the Complaint,
Moving Defendants made repeated false statements to the police that they feared
Plaintiff would commit a mass shooting in order to retaliate against Plaintiff
and cover up their alleged misconduct. These allegations may or may not be
true, but that is not a question for the pleading stage – the only question on
demurrer is whether the facts, as alleged, state a cause of action.
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Moving Defendants engaged in extreme and
outrageous conduct that go beyond the bounds of decency.
 
            Moving
Defendants argue that their police reports were privileged under Civil Code,
section 47. To the contrary, subdivision (b)(5) of section 47 explicitly
excludes false police reports from its protection. (Civ. Code, § 47, subd.
(b)(5).)
 
            “Severe
emotional distress means, then, emotional distress of such substantial quantity
or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in a civilized society should
be expected to endure it.” (Bogard v. Employers Casualty Co. (1985) 164
Cal.App.3d 602, 617 [citation and quotation marks omitted].) A plaintiff must
“set forth … facts which indicate the nature or extent of any mental suffering
incurred as a result of [the defendant’s] alleged outrageous conduct.” (Ibid.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff does not set forth such facts outside of the allegation that he
suffered severe emotional distress. Although Plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts and not evidentiary facts, Plaintiff must provide more specific allegations
than this legal conclusion.
 
            The
Court therefore sustains the demurrers to this claim with leave to amend.
 
Defamation – Second Claim
 
“The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication
that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural
tendency to injure or causes special damage. The defamatory statement must
specifically refer to, or be of and concerning, the plaintiff.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312 [quotation marks and citation omitted].)
 
Defendants argue that the statute of limitations has run on
Plaintiff’s defamation claim. 
 
The statute of limitations for defamation is one year. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340, subd. (c).) Defendants allegedly made the defamatory statements
in question between May 6, 2022 and April 12, 2023, when Plaintiff was
arrested.
 
There is good reason to apply the delayed discovery doctrine
in this case. Plaintiff alleges that he did not learn of the alleged false
police reports until he was arrested. (Complaint at p. 3:18-19.) “[Courts] have
recognized that in some instances, the accrual of a cause of action in tort is
delayed until the plaintiff discovered (or reasonably should have discovered or
suspected) the factual basis for his or her claim.” (Shively v. Bozanich
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230, 1248.) “[T]he discovery rule most frequently applies
when it is particularly difficult for the plaintiff to observe or understand
the breach of duty, or when the injury itself (or its cause) is hidden or
beyond what the ordinary person could be expected to understand.” (Ibid.)
A reasonable person could not be expected to discover a police report against
them that they were not informed of. Thus, Plaintiff’s cause of action, at
least as alleged, did not accrue until Plaintiff’s arrest on April 12, 2023.
This action was filed well within one year of that date.
 
Defendants argue that their statements were privileged under
Civil Code, section 47, subd. (b). As discussed above, subdivision (b)(5) of
section 47 explicitly excludes false police reports from its protection. (Civ.
Code, § 47, subd. (b)(5).) Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants’ reports were
false. (Complaint at pp. 2:28-3:9.) The alleged statements are therefore not
privileged.
 
            Defendants
argue that their allegedly defamatory statements must be specifically
identified.
 
            Defamatory
statements can be either libel or slander. (Civ. Code, § 44.) Libel is written
communication that is false, that is not protected by any privilege, and that
exposes a person to contempt or ridicule or certain other reputational
injuries. (Civ. Code §45.) Slander is a false unprivileged oral communication
attributing to a person specific misdeeds or certain unfavorable
characteristics or qualities or uttering certain other derogatory statements
regarding a person, such as one which by natural consequence causes actual
damage. (Civ. Code § 46.)
 
            “[W]ords
constituting an alleged libel must be specifically identified, if not pleaded
verbatim, in the complaint.” (Medical Marijuana, Inc. v. ProjectCBD.com
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 869, 893 [emphasis omitted].) For slander, by comparison,
“[l]ess particularity is required when it appears that defendant has superior
knowledge of the facts, so long as the pleading gives notice of the issues
sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.” (Ibid [citation and
quotation marks omitted].) “[S]lander may be charged by alleging the substance
of the defamatory statement” (Ibid [citation and quotation marks omitted].)
 
            Plaintiff
has not alleged that the statements in question were libel. Plaintiff’s failure
to allege the statements made verbatim is therefore not a defect that appears
on the face of the Complaint.
 
            The
Court therefore overrules the demurrers to this claim.
 
False Imprisonment – Third Claim
 
“The elements of a tortious claim of false imprisonment are:
(1) the nonconsensual, intentional confinement of a person, (2) without lawful
privilege, and (3) for an appreciable period of time, however brief.” (Lyons v. Fire Insurance Exchange (2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 880, 888.)
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged that the police reports causally led to
his arrest. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff alleges that “as a result of [Defendants’]
sheriff’s report and subsequent statements to investigators, plaintiff was
arrested by the Los Angeles County Sheriff on or about April 12, 2023, and
detained in a jail cell against his will.” (Complaint at p. 3:13-15.) Plaintiff
cannot be reasonably expected to allege the internal workings of the LACSD that
led from the alleged reports to his arrest.
 
            Courts
“[recognize] the difference between the tort of false imprisonment, which is
premised upon a violation of the personal liberty of another accomplished
without lawful authority, and the tort of malicious prosecution, which
constitutes procuring the arrest or prosecution of another under lawful
process, but from a malicious motive and without probable cause.” (Asgari v.
City of Los Angeles (1997) 15 Cal.4th 744, 753–754.)
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s arrest was made with lawful privilege because Plaintiff
has not alleged that the police arrested him without lawful authority or
without due process.
 
            “[A]n
intervening act of a third person … [is not] a superseding cause if a
reasonable [person] knowing the situation existing when the act of the third
person is done would not regard it as highly extraordinary that the third
person so acted or the act is a normal response to a situation created by the
defendant's conduct and the manner in which the intervening act is done is not
extraordinarily negligent.” (Stewart v. Cox (1961) 55 Cal.2d 857, 864.)
 
            Here,
the police’s arrest of Plaintiff was a normal response to a situation allegedly
created by Defendants (the police reports). Defendants cite Michigan v.
Summers (1981) 452 U.S. 692, which evaluated whether the police
acted in violation of the Fourth Amendment by detaining a homeowner for whose
home they had a search warrant. (Id. at p. 703.)
 
The fact that the police may
have been privileged in their detention of Plaintiff is not the issue, because
the arrest foreseeably flowed from Defendants’ allegedly culpable conduct.
 
            The
Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages and supporting allegations.
 
            Punitive
damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with malice, oppression, or
fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended
to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by
defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise
cause injury. (Ibid.) 
 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Ibid.)
“In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.”
(Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud
or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
 
Plaintiff has pled that Defendants made false police reports
with the intent to retaliate against Plaintiff and prevent him from discovering
their alleged misconduct. Plaintiff has therefore adequately alleged malice.
 
The Court denies the motions to strike.