 Case Number:  23STCV24992    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PINEAPPLE VENTURES, INC, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PNPLXPRESS, INC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 23STCV24992
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: June 6, 2024
 Calendar Number: 6



 
 
 
Plaintiffs Pineapple Ventures, Inc. (“Ventures”) and
Pineapple Consolidated, Inc. (“Consolidated”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move
to compel Defendant Joshua Eisenberg to execute certain documents pursuant to a
settlement agreement in this case. Plaintiffs also request $17,755.64 in costs
and attorney’s fees.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to enforce the
settlement and ORDERS Eisenberg to execute the documents provided to him by PXI
to effectuate the transfer of his social equity license to PXI.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees and
costs in the amount of $17,755.64. Eisenberg shall pay this amount to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on October 12, 2023 against
Defendants Eisenberg and PNPLXPRESS, Inc. (“PXI”) (collectively, “Defendants”),
raising claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) unfair business practices; (4) injunctive relief; (5)
declaratory relief; (6) commercial misappropriation of name and likeness; (7)
common law misappropriation; (8) interference with contractual relations; and
(9) unfair competition and false advertising.
 
On January 30, 2024, the Court dismissed this action
pursuant to a settlement (the “Settlement”) between the parties. The parties
memorialized the settlement in a written agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”)
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion. Defendants
filed an opposition and Plaintiffs filed a reply.
 
A hearing was held on May 16, 2024. The Court ordered
additional briefing on two issues. Plaintiffs and Defendants each filed a
supplemental brief and a response brief to the other side’s supplemental brief.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendants object to the declaration of Matthew Feinstein
filed in support of Plaintiff’s supplemental brief on the basis that the
declaration was not signed. Feinstein avers in his supplemental declaration
that, although the declaration does not appear to be signed in the filed
version, he did in fact sign the declaration, and provides as an exhibit a copy
of the fully executed declaration. The Court therefore overrules Defendants’
objection.
 
Legal Standard
 
“If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 664.6, subd. (a).)
            
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
“The court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except [where an
action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed pursuant to a settlement of
the case], the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who
recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may also
determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
            The
Court quotes several relevant provisions of the Settlement Agreement below. For
the sake of readability, the Court uses the names “Eisenberg” and “Ortega” with
their regular spelling, rather than in all caps as in the Settlement Agreement.

 
The Settlement Agreement requires that Eisenberg execute
“any corporate governance agreements, regulatory documents, and/or other
definitive agreements that may be required to cancel his interest in PXI in
favor of a new majority owner.” (Feinstein Decl., Ex. A (“Settlement Agreement”),
§ 3.4.) It further provides that Eisenberg shall 
 
fully cooperate
in the replacement of himself as the majority owner upon PXI’s application for
provision licensing renewal and the annual permit application through the
Department of Cannabis Control (DCC), inclusive of execution of any corporate
governance agreements, regulatory documents, and/or other definitive agreements
that may be required to cancel his interest in PXI in favor of a new majority
owner. [Consolidated] and/or [Jaime] Ortega shall cause PXI to apply for
renewal provisional licensing substituting out Eisenberg as the social equity
licensee in favor of a new social equity licensee for PXI on or before March
31, 2024 and shall provide a copy of the application to Eisenberg within one
(1) calendar day of the filing.
 
(Settlement Agreement, § 3.4.A.) Importantly
for purposes of this motion, the Settlement Agreement states: “The transfer
paperwork shall be prepared and filed for PXI with the DCC and LADCR in [Consolidated’s]
and Ortega’s absolute discretion but with Eisenberg’s absolute cooperation
without further input from Eisenberg.” (Settlement Agreement, § 3.4.E.,
emphasis added) “Once the transition is complete with the LADCR and DCC,
Eisenberg shall retain the right to apply for a new cannabis license under a
different corporate entity and in a location that does not compete with the
current location.” (Ibid.)
 
            Parties
to the Settlement are entitled to seek specific performance. (Settlement
Agreement, § 9.) The Settlement Agreement is integrated and cannot be altered
orally. (Settlement Agreement, § 10.)
 
            Plaintiff
sent Eisenberg several documents required by the California Department of
Cannabis Control (“DCC”) and the City of Los Angeles Department of Cannabis
Regulation (“DCR”). Eisenberg refused to complete the forms.
 
            Defendants
attempt to introduce extrinsic evidence to argue that there is a better way to
transfer the cannabis license. However, Defendants did not contend in their
court papers that the Settlement is ambiguous. Moreover, the Settlement is an
integrated agreement. 
 
            The
Settlement appears unambiguous. Eisenberg does not have discretion to suggest
an alternate process for the transfer under the Settlement. Whether a better
process exists is not material – the parties have agreed that Plaintiffs shall
control the means of the license transfer. 
 
            In
his papers, Eisenberg did not ground any of his arguments in the contract
language. He does not explain how his assertions can be squared with the
contract language. He does not explain how he could prevail in his desire for a
different transfer mechanism when the contract expressly states that the
transfer paperwork shall be in Consolidated’s “absolute discretion but with
Eisenberg’s absolute cooperation without further input from Eisenberg.”
(Settlement Agreement, § 3.4.E.)
 
            At
the hearing, Eisenberg argued for the first time that certain language in the
Settlement Agreement is ambiguous. He identified the following language as
ambiguous and incorporating the idea that Eisenberg retains his social equity
license: “Once the transition is complete with the LADCR and DCC, Eisenberg
shall retain the right to apply for a new cannabis license under a different
corporate entity and in a location that does not compete with the current
location.” (Settlement Agreement, § 3.4.E. [emphasis added].) The problem for
Eisenberg is that there is nothing ambiguous about this language. This language
is entirely clear. Eisenberg has identified nothing about this language that
could be read one way or the other, even in light of the extrinsic evidence. The
language does not speak to whether Eisenberg does or does not retain his social
equity license. Attempting to graft on a term to this provision that says
Eisenberg has an absolute right to retain his social equity license is simply
adding terms to the agreement, not revealing or interpreting an ambiguity.
 
            The
Court previously requested additional briefing on the following questions:
 
·       
While the Settlement Agreement gives
Consolidated complete discretion to prepare the transfer paperwork, it does specify
that the paperwork do the following: “cause PXI to apply for renewal
provisional licensing substituting out Eisenberg as the social equity licensee
in favor of a new social equity licensee for PXI.” The Court does not have
clarity whether the paperwork Plaintiffs favor effectuates this or contains
unnecessary terms requiring Eisenberg to give up his social equity license.
 
·       
The Court is not satisfied with the answer given
by Plaintiffs at the hearing about statements by Plaintiffs’ principle Zadeh. Plaintiffs
argued to the effect that Zadeh was simply trying to be accommodating. The
writing from Zadeh, however, stated, shortly after referencing Eisenberg keeping
his social equity license, “That’s what was agreed to within the settlement
agreement.” How do Plaintiffs square that statement with its position that the
settlement agreement allows Plaintiffs to require Eisenberg to give up his
social equity license?
 
Plaintiffs have provided evidence that the paperwork that
they seek to have completed and filed is the paperwork necessary to effectuate
the licensing substitution. Plaintiffs inquired as to the process necessary to
substitute PXI in for Eisenberg as the new social equity licensee, and in fact
attempted to accomplish a transfer whereby Eisenberg would be able to
immediately re-use his license. (Feinstein Decl. ¶ 3.) The forms in question
were provided by Donneka Ballard at the DCR in response to Plaintiffs’
inquiries. (Feinstein Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, 8-9.) The possibility of completing the
transfer per the Settlement Agreement without Eisenberg losing his license
therefore does not appear to be available.
 
Further, as discussed above, the Settlement Agreement does
not appear to have contemplated Eisenberg keeping his current license – rather,
it states that “[o]nce the transition is complete with the LADCR and DCC,
Eisenberg shall retain the right to apply for a new cannabis license
under a different corporate entity and in a location that does not compete with
the current location.” (Settlement Agreement, § 3.4.E., emphasis added.) It may
be true that the Settlement Agreement does not specifically require that
Eisenberg give up his current social equity license, but neither does it
entitle him to keep it. The final question of whether Eisenberg retains his
current license appears to depend entirely on the administrative process –
which, as discussed above, appears to require that Eisenberg transfer away his
license. Since that is the only way to effectuate the Settlement Agreement,
that consequence is Eisenberg’s to bear.
 
The Court now turns to the issue of Zadeh’s representations.
 
Generally, “postacceptance communications are irrelevant to
the determination of the intent of the parties as of the date of acceptance,
and the meaning of the agreement as of that date.” (Roden v. Bergen Brunswig
Corp. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 620, 629.)
 
Defendants argue that “[t]he subsequent [post-acceptance]
conduct of the parties to the agreement [is] admissible to show their
intentions.” (De Armas v. Dickerman (1952) 108 Cal.App.2d 548, 552.) Universal
Sales Corp. v. California Press Mfg. Co. (1942) 20 Cal.2d 751, cited by De
Armas for that point of law, provides clarification and context. In Universal
Sales Corp., the California Supreme Court explained that “when a
contract is ambiguous, a construction given to it by the acts and conduct
of the parties with knowledge of its terms, before any controversy has
arisen as to its meaning, is entitled to great weight, and will, when
reasonable, be adopted and enforced by the court.” (Universal Sales Corp. v.
California Press Mfg. Co. (1942) 20 Cal.2d 751, 761 [emphasis added].) “Parties
are far less liable to have been mistaken as to the intention of their contract
during the period while harmonious and practical construction reflects that
intention, than they are when subsequent differences have impelled them to
resort to law[.]” (Id. at p. 762.)
 
Two key points distinguish the Universal Sales Corp.
rule from the Roden rule. First, the contract must actually be
ambiguous. Here, Defendants still have not shown that the language providing
that the paperwork substitute out Eisenberg as the social equity licensee in
favor of a new social equity licensee for PXI is ambiguous. Second, Zadeh’s
communication can hardly be described as predating the controversy over the
settlement agreement. The full body of the email reads:
 
You’re
not giving up your social equity license and you know that. You’re just being
difficult. The procedure is transferring your equity to another social equity
and then you can have your own license at another location using your DCR
record number. That’s what was agreed within the settlement agreement, and also
confirmed via email in your presence with a city employee[.]
 
Filing
a new application puts us out of business and not in compliance with state
guidelines. It’s also not what was agreed. We paid you funds and signed the
settlement agreement specifically for the transfer, which is why it’s mentioned
therein. You’re acting in bad faith and the record is clear.
 
Andrew, do your
worst.
 
(Eisenberg Decl., Ex. 3.)
 
            These
statements do not reflect the sort of harmonious contractual relationship that
the Universal Sales Corp. Court believed to be instructive on the actual
intent of the parties. Rather, it shows that the parties had already reached
the precise impasse which is now before the Court.
 
            Finally,
as an additional note, the full body of Zadeh’s email does appear to reflect
Plaintiffs’ position – that the settlement requires Eisenberg to transfer his
social equity, and that the settlement does not contemplate Plaintiffs filing a
new application.
 
            The
Court therefore grants Plaintiffs’ motion.
 
            Attorney’s Fees and Costs
 
The Settlement provides for attorney’s fees and costs on
enforcement. Plaintiffs request $17,755.64 in costs and fees.
 
Plaintiffs request hourly rates of $842.66 for Andrew Holmes
and $726.28 for Patrick Chesney. The Court finds these rates to be reasonable
based on counsels’ experience.
 
Plaintiffs request 18.9 hours for Holmes and 2.4 hours for
Chesney. The Court finds these time expenditures to be reasonable.
 
Plaintiffs request $86.30 in costs related to the motion and
reply. The Court finds these costs to be reasonable.
 
The Court therefore grants these amounts. 