  Case Number:  19STCV21811    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  30 EARL HACKETT, JR. vs ISB TRANSPORT LTD., et al.TENTATIVEThe motion to compel the deposition of non-party Fawn Bishop is DENIED without prejudice. Both parties’ request for sanctions is DENIED.Legal Standard“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.”¿ (CCP § 2025.010.)“Personal service of a deposition subpoena obligates any resident of California to appear, testify and produce whatever documents or things are specified in the subpoena; and to appear in any proceedings to enforce discovery.” (CCP § 2020.220(c).)Where a deponent fails to appear or produce documents at a deposition, Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450 permits a party to seek a motion to compel a deposition. The motion is permissible after a party fails to appear without having served a valid objection pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.410. (Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(a).)CCP section¿2025.450(g)(1) provides, “(1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2025.450(g)(1).)DiscussionPlaintiff moves to compel the second session of deposition of non-party witness Fawn Bishops and request sanctions against defense counsel.On December 5, 2023, witness Fawn Bishop appeared for her deposition that took place at her home. (Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff argues that during the questioning, the deponent gave multiple confusing and contrasting answers to simple questions and then became combative and argumentative with Plaintiff’s counsel Bita Azimi. Plaintiff contends that as Azimi was attempting to continue her questioning and gather clear answers for the record, defense counsel called a break and upon returning, unilaterally suspended the deposition without meeting and conferring.Defendants present a very different description of events in the opposition. Defendants argue that the deposition of Bishop was suspended by defense counsel because the questioning by Plaintiff’s counsel was harassing. Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s counsel Azimi repeatedly interrupted and personally attacked Bishop, who gave her testimony despite her extremely poor health after suffering such a severe bout of Covid that she was in a coma for 49 days, had to undergo a tracheostomy, and now requires the utilization of an oxygen machine and attendant care multiple times per week. The tone of the deposition reached such a level that Defense Counsel worried that Bishop would suffer an adverse health event, and was unilaterally suspended in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.420 and 2025.470.Further, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Motion, directed against Defendants and their counsel, is improper insofar as Defendants have no control over Bishop, and no ability to “produce” her for deposition. Defense Counsel subpoenaed and noticed Ms. Bishop’s original deposition. Plaintiff’s Counsel has never served any Notice of the Deposition of Ms. Bishop, nor have they ever served her with a Deposition Subpoena. (McIntyre Decl., ¶ 3.)The Court does not need to address the substantive arguments at this time because, as Plaintiff knows, Defense counsel does not represent Bishop. Therefore, defense counsel cannot produce her for deposition. Plaintiff has made no effort to serve Bishop with a subpoena to appear for deposition, or give her notice of the deposition. A motion to compel a nonparty’s deposition requires personal service on the deponent. (See CCP § 2020.220(c).) Further, in the moving papers filed, no service of the motion has been made on Bishop. “A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.)Therefore, the motion to compel the deposition of witness Fawn Bishop is DENIED without prejudice for lack of service and notice on the deponent of the deposition itself and this motion.Lastly, Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendants and vice versa.Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied as Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.) As no other statute or law is cited for sanctions, the request is denied.Defendants cite to no authority for their request for sanctions. As such, Defendants’ request is also denied.