 Case Number:  22STCV24532    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER DEPOSITION AND
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS FROM NON-PARTY
Hearing Date: 10/24/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV24532 ANDRANIK
GRIGORYAN vs ABRAHAM MORALES FLORES, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant DOWNEY WHOLESALE, INC
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Insufficient
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER DEPOSITION
AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS FROM NON-PARTY IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
Note: The
Court advances the hearing for the motion to compel further deposition
responses from Virella’s PMK, originally scheduled for October 25, 2024, to
today, as the motions address the same issue, and the ruling, which does not
prejudice the non-moving party, is the same for both non-parties.
 
On July 29, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the subject lawsuit, alleging general negligence and seeking
damages, including medical expenses, against Defendant. Plaintiff received
substantial treatment from Ridge Surgery Center and Virella Neurosurgery for
the claimed injuries. Defendant issued a deposition subpoena
("Subpoena") requiring deposition testimony and the production of
documents from the Custodian of Records for both Ridge and Virella. Both
medical providers partially complied by producing medical records and attending
the deposition, but they indicated that the relevant billing records were held
by a third-party billing company, Medical Billing Concepts. However, after
issuing a subpoena to Medical Billing Concepts, Defendant discovered that this
information was incorrect. Plaintiff now moves to compel Ridge and Virella to
produce the documents and provide PMK deposition testimony under categories 3
and 4, specifically related to billing and payment.
California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1346 provides:
“A written notice and
all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition
question or to compel the production of a document or tangible thing from a
nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the
nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an
address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” 
The proof of service
for the motions showed that the motions were all served electronically;
however, no email address was listed for Virella and Ridge in the proof of
service. Furthermore, the motions were not served by personal service as
required by Rule 3.1346. There is also no indication in the moving papers that
the nonparty deponents agreed to accept service by mail or electronic service.
Compounding the issue
is the fact that this motion is unopposed, raising the possibility that the
third-party deponents did not receive proper notice of the present motions.
Thus, the present motions to compel are denied without prejudice.  
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 