  Case Number:  22CHCV01342    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  F51 
NOVEMBER 21,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Requests for
Admission, Set Two)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22CHCV01342

 
Motion
filed: 10/30/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Misael Jimenez (“Moving Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
White Cap Supply Holdings, LLC (“Responding Defendant”)
NOTICE: NOT OK (fails to specify which
requests are at issue)
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling Responding Defendant’s further responses, to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admission (“RFAs”), Set Two, Nos. 54–64, 66, and 68–70. Plaintiff
also seeks monetary sanctions to be issued against Responding Defendant and its
counsel in the amount of $4,960.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted in part and denied in part. Responding Defendant to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set Two, Nos. 64, 66, and 68–70 within 30 days. The Court declines
to issue monetary sanctions.
 
Moving Plaintiff is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing
documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set
forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking
declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these
requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters being
placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in
compliance with these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the
imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability action in which Plaintiffs
allege that on 12/16/20, Moving Plaintiff Misael Jimenez was visiting
Defendants’ premises to purchase a door when an unsecured 2”x6” board fell and
struck Moving Plaintiff’s head, “which caused him to suffer, among other
injuries, a significant laceration to his forehead that required stitches and a
traumatic brain injury.” (Compl. p. 4.)
 
On 12/8/22, Plaintiffs filed their complaint against two
named Defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1) General
Negligence; (2) Premises Liability; and (3) Loss of Consortium (by nonmoving
Plaintiff Dora Jimenez). On 1/11/23, Responding Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 9/5/24, Moving Plaintiff served Responding Defendant with
his second set of RFAs. (Decl. of Brendan D.S. Way ¶ 1.) On 10/8/24, Responding
Defendant served its responses thereto, with verifications served on 10/15/24. (Id.
at ¶¶ 2–3.) 
 
On 10/30/24, Moving Plaintiff filed the instant motion to
compel further responses to the subject RFAs. On 11/8/24, Responding Defendant
filed its opposition. On 11/13/24, Moving Plaintiff filed his reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California
law requires a responding party to respond to each propounded request for
admission with either a substantive answer or an objection to the particular
request. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2033.210, subd. (b).) Each substantive answer
must: “(1)¿Admit so much of the matter involved in the request as is true,
either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly
qualified by the responding party; (2)¿Deny so much of the matter involved in
the request as is untrue; (3)¿Specify so much of the matter involved in the
request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient
information or knowledge.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.220, subd. (b).) “If a
responding party gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a
failure to admit all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state
in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular
request has been made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is
insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.” (Id. at subd.
(c).)


A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further responses to requests for admission if any of
the following apply: “(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete; or (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Moving Plaintiff seeks
to compel Responding Defendant’s further responses to the subject RFAs, arguing
that Responding Defendant’s responses are evasive and incomplete because
Responding Defendant failed to make a reasonable inquiry into the matter by
consulting its expert.
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2033.290, subd. (b)(1); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Moving
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on 10/8/24, 10/14/24, and 10/25/24, he sent Responding
Defendant’s counsel meet-and-confer letters raising the issues discussed herein,
but received no response. (Way Decl. ¶¶ 4–8.) Therefore, the
Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290, subdivision (b)(1).
 
B.    
Responding Defendant’s Responses
 
On 2/23/24, Moving Plaintiff submitted to a defense mental
examination performed by Manuel Saint Martin, M.D., J.D. (Pl.’s Mot. 3:16–17.)
“One of the components of this examination was ‘The b Test’, originally
developed by Dr. Kyle Boone as a test to expose malingerers. Dr. St. Martin
opined that plaintiff’s results on ‘The b Test’ were proof that Plaintiff did
not suffer a brain injury.” (Id. at 3:19–21.) The RFAs at issue seek
admissions regarding Dr. Boone’s conclusions published about The b Test and Dr.
Saint Martin’s administration thereof. (Ex. 1 to Way Decl.)
 
Moving Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant’s uniform position
is that ‘[r]esponding party lacks the foundation and expertise to respond to
the request[s]”, despite having a provisionally disclosed expert who
administered the test.” (Pl.’s Mot. 6:12–14.) Moving Plaintiff argues that
these responses lack merit, and further responses should be compelled because
Responding “Defendant is merely being asked to confirm elements of The b Test,
confirm Plaintiff’s results and confirm that Dr. St. Martin violated the terms
of the stipulation that was signed by all counsel and Dr. St. Martin.” (Id.
at 7:6–8.)
 
Responding Defendant argues in opposition that “this subject
matter is appropriate for an expert to opine on, not a party defendant.” (Def.’s
Opp. 2:15–16.) “‘Dr. Kyle Boone’ has not been retained by Defendant as a
consultant or expert and Defendant has no contact with her as it pertains to
this case. As such, Defendant has no way of verifying or authenticating the
contents or conclusions in an article purportedly published by her, an
independent third-party not involved in the current action.” (Id. at
2:6–9.) Responding Defendant further argues that “Plaintiff is more than
welcome to depose ‘Dr. Kyle Boone’ for her to authenticate the publishing
herself and the conclusions within it. RFAs should not compel a party to
authenticate a document belonging to a non-party, let alone validate or agree
with expert-level conclusions or analyses found in published papers.”
(3:16–19.)
 
On reply, Moving Plaintiff maintains that “the balance of
the information is readily available from their consultant/expert’s written
materials associated with the test, a web search and whether or not Dr. Saint
Martin allowed his female assistant to be present during the test
administration.” (Pl.’s Reply 2:19–21.) “A simple conversation by and between
Defendant and Dr. St. Martin would provide Defendant with information to enable
it to admit or deny these matters.” (Id. at 3:20–21.)
 
Here, the Court agrees with Moving Plaintiff that further
responses are warranted as to RFA Nos. 64, 66, and 68–70, as they relate to Dr.
Saint Martin’s administration of The b Test as part of Moving Plaintiff’s
medical examination. “A party to an action may not necessarily avoid responding
to a request for admission on the ground that the request calls for expert
opinion and the party does not know the answer. … [S]ince requests for
admissions are not limited to matters within personal knowledge of the
responding party, that party has a duty to make a reasonable investigation of
the facts before answering items which do not fall within his personal
knowledge.” (Bloxham v. Saldinger (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 729, 751–752
[internal citations and quotations omitted].) Here, the Court agrees with
Moving Plaintiff that a reasonable investigation into the matters sought by
these RFAs would include an inquiry to Dr. Saint Martin. Accordingly, the Court
grants Moving Plaintiff’s motion as to RFA Nos. 64, 66, and 68–70.
 
However, the Court also agrees with Responding Defendant
that its responses to RFA Nos. 54–63 are sufficient here, as Dr. Boone has no
direct relation to the instant case and Responding Defendant would therefore be
unable to confirm the conclusions set forth by Dr. Boone in her publications
about The b Test. Accordingly, the Court denies Moving Plaintiff’s motion as to
RFA Nos. 54–63.
 
C.   
Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
 
Here, Moving Plaintiff seeks to recover $4,960.00 in
monetary sanctions against Responding Defendant and its counsel. As the Court
finds that neither party has been completely successful in bringing or opposing
the instant motion, the Court declines to issue monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted in part and
denied in part. Responding Defendant to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set Two, Nos. 64,
66, and 68–70 within 30 days. The Court declines to issue monetary
sanctions.