  Case Number:  23CMCV02052    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV02052
 Luis Miguel Bravo v. FCA US, LLC 
Thursday, August
 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
      The complaint
alleges that Defendant issued Plaintiff an express warranty in connection with
Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2021 Jeep Wrangler made and distributed by Defendant.
The vehicle suffered from defects that Defendant failed to repair within a
reasonable number of attempts in violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act. 
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
requests an order to compel Defendant, FCA US, LLC (“Defendant”) to produce its
person most qualified (“PMQ”) to testify on issues relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims. Defendant objected to Plaintiff’s deposition notice and failed to
provide alternative dates. 
      In
opposition, Defendant argues the motion is unnecessary as the parties have
already agreed to hold the deposition on October 24, 2024.            
      Plaintiff
argues that the opposition was untimely filed and should be disregarded.
 
III.   
DISCUSSION 
      The court
has considered Defendant’s opposition filed on July 31,
 2024.  although it was due on July 26,
 2024, which is nine court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1005 (b).) The court has discretion to consider late papers in favor of the
strong policy favoring disposition of the case on the merits. (Kapitanski
v. Von’s (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 29, 32, [“Judges are well aware of the
unnecessary burdens placed on courts and counsel when strict compliance with
local procedural rules results in the expenditure of unnecessary time and money
for the preparation of later section 473 motions.”].)  Plaintiff has not shown any prejudice
resulting from the delay. Defendant’s opposition does not raise any objections
to Plaintiff’s request. 
      Service
of a deposition notice is effective to require any deponent who is a party to
the action “or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280 subd.(b).) The attendance and testimony of any other
deponent, including for production of documents requires service of a
deposition subpoena on the witness. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280 subd. (c).) 
      If a party fails to appear for a deposition after
service of a deposition notice, without having served a valid objection, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document or tangible
thing described in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.) The moving party must show good cause
for the deposition and attempt to meet and confer. (Id.) 
      Plaintiff
first served a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s PMQ on April 10, 2024. (Yousuf
Decl., Ex. 2.) Defendant objected, prompting Plaintiff to request alternative
dates for the deposition beginning on May 16, 2024. (Id. Ex. 3-4.) Plaintiff
followed up with the request for dates on May 23, May 31, and June 17. Defendant
did not provide any dates for the deposition. 
      While
Defendant maintains that it provided Plaintiff with a date of October 28, 2024,
the opposition is not supported by a declaration or documentary evidence that
the parties have agreed to a mutually convenient date. 
 
IV.  
CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered
to produce a person most qualified for deposition and production of documents responsive
to the request within 10 calendar days as requested by Plaintiff. 
 
 