 On December 13, 2021, Plaintiff Brendan Schulz filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants Pitzer College (“Pitzer”), Janet Schwing, Nigel Boyle, and Melvin Oliver for (1) violation of the Unruh Act, (2) attempted extortion, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) breach of contract, (5) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (6) intentional misrepresentation, (7) false promise, (8) willful misconduct, (9) reckless misconduct, and (10) concealment. Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that Pitzer failed to accommodate him as a student after he suffered a concussion because Plaintiff is a Jew. Plaintiff now seeks to compel further responses to his special interrogatories, set one, nos. 1-7 propounded on Pitzer.  Pitzer contends the Motion is untimely because it agreed to an extended Motion deadline of September 8, 2023, only to the extent Plaintiff served revised interrogatories by August 7, 2023, which Plaintiff never did. Respectfully, however, the parties’ agreement does not explicitly make the deadline for the Motion contingent on any past acts.  (Motion, Exhibit 2.)  In fact, as to the extended deadline, the agreement refers to “any motion” with respect to Plaintiff’s first set of discovery and not merely a motion directed at revised responses.  Interrogatory no. 1 states, “What were the total charges, including but not limited to charges for tuition, room, board, student activity fees, and any other fees charged by Pitzer College to the plaintiff for each semester of the plaintiff’s undergraduate education at Pitzer College?”  The objections based on relevance, proprietary information, and overbreadth lack merit. Interrogatory no. 2 states, “Did Dr. Phil Zuckerman, Dr. Brian Keeley, and/or Dr. Darryl Wright receive training regarding how to accommodate a student with a concussion or traumatic brain injury? If so, please describe the training, when such training was conducted, and who conducted such training.”  The objections—which are essentially the same as those discussed above—lack merit.  Further, despite being discussed by Pitzer, Defendant failed to actually assert an objection based on improper subparts.  That objection is waived for interrogatory no. 2. Interrogatory no. 3 states, “Did Nigel Boyle and Melvin Oliver communicate in any way, shape, or form regarding the plaintiff’s academic circumstances, graduation status, graduation participation, academic accommodations, civil rights complaints, and/or any of the allegations included in the plaintiff’s complaint at any time after April 15, 2019? If so, please provide the date and time when the matter was discussed, the manner of communication in which the matter was discussed (in-person conversation, phone call, email, etc.), the name of any others who were present, and what attribute of the matter was discussed for each instance.”  Similarly, interrogatory no. 4 states, “Did Nigel Boyle and Sandy Hamilton communicate in any way, shape, or form regarding the plaintiff’s request for an institutional endorsement for the Rhodes Scholarship, the plaintiff’s internal and external civil rights complaints, any of the allegations included in the plaintiff’s complaint, and/or the plaintiff in any manner in October of 2020? If so, please provide the date and time when the matter was discussed, the manner of communication in which the matter was discussed (in-person conversation, phone call, email, etc.), the name of any others who were present, and what attribute of the matter was discussed for each instance.”  Further, Interrogatory no. 5 states, “Did Melvin Oliver communicate in any way, shape, or form the plaintiff’s academic circumstances, graduation status, graduation participation, academic accommodations, and/or any of the allegations included in the plaintiff’s complaint (including in general terms without specifically naming the plaintiff and only mentioning events) with any student or former student of Pitzer College after May of 2019? If so, please provide the date and time when the matter was discussed, the manner of communication in which the matter was discussed (in-person conversation, phone call, email, etc.), the name of any others who were present, and what attribute of the matter was discussed for each instance.”The same objections again lack merit.  This time Defendant also objected on the basis of the discovery being compound.  It’s true that these interrogatories are compound and have subparts.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.060(f).)  However, “The purpose [of this rule] is to prevent questions worded so as to require more information than could be obtained by 35 separate questions.”  Here, if you count the improper subparts and take into account that there isn’t a compound issue when the interrogatory relates to one idea or concept (see Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 8F-3), the Court counted just under 35 interrogatories.  Therefore, there is no violation.  Interrogatory no. 6 states, “Over the past twenty years, how many Pitzer College students each year did not graduate on their intended graduation date and were provided academic accommodations in the semester preceding their intended graduation date? Please provide this breakdown by year.”The Motion is denied as to interrogatory no. 6, which is overbroad and overburdensome. Interrogatory no. 7 states, “Were any changes made to Pitzer College’s disability accommodation policies or graduation participation policies, including but not limited to the ability of the Pitzer College President to allow students who have taken incompletes to participate in graduation, after May of 2019? If so, please describe how the policies changed and why.”  The identical objections to this interrogatory lack merit.  In sum, the Motion to Compel is granted in part.  Specifically, the Motion is granted as to interrogatory nos. 1-5 and 7, but is denied as to interrogatory no. 6.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.