On January 16, 2019, Plaintiffs Brian Yang and Jerry Xu filed a Complaint against Defendants Michel Amar, Alec Amar, Bit.Management, LLC, NYAM, LLC and Multiple Application Technology, LLC for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) fraudulent transfer, (5) conversion, (6) conversion, (7) accounting, (8) violation of the UCL, (9) constructive trust, and (10) dissolution of limited liability company.  Defendants now seek to quash subpoenas issued by Yang to First Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, U.S. Bancorp, and JP Morgan Chase Bank for NYAM, LLC’s banking records.  The subpoenas specifically seek “All DOCUMENTS for the period from December 1, 2017 through the date of production for all deposit or credit accounts standing in the name of NYAM LLC, alone or together with any other person, individual, partnership, corporation, or business entity.”Defendants contend that these subpoenas are overbroad in light of NYAM’s privacy rights; a notice to consumer was not provided to Michel Amar; Yang failed to first request these documents from NYAM; and the subpoena fails to attach the parties’ protective order.Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)Here, the subpoenas seek financial documents but have no substantive limitations.  On the other hand, “[t]he constitutional [privacy] provision simply does not apply to corporations.”  (Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal. App. 3d 770, 791.)  “Although corporations have a lesser right to privacy than human beings and are not entitled to claim a right to privacy in terms of a fundamental right, some right to privacy exists. Privacy rights accorded artificial entities are not stagnant, but depend on the circumstances.”  (Id. at p. 796.)  “Two critical factors are the strength of the nexus between the artificial entity and human beings and the context in which the controversy arises.”  (Id. at p. 797.)“Because the corporate privacy right is not constitutionally protected, the issue presented in determining whether . . .  requests for production infringe that right is resolved by a balancing test. The discovery's relevance to the subject matter of the pending dispute and whether the discovery “ ‘appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence’ ” is balanced against the corporate right of privacy. (Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 579, 595[40 Cal.Rptr.3d 446].)  Doubts about relevance generally are resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Ibid.)”  (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756.)Here, no discussion has been provided as to NYAM’s nexus to human beings.  Given Yang’s central allegation that money was improperly transferred from BIT to other entities, including NYAM and Multiple Application Technology, LLC (“MAP”), the documents sought could encompass highly relevant information.  The Court will narrow the subpoenas to encompass transactions involving only BIT, MAP, and Bit Mining International LLC.Yang argues that “It is also reasonable to believe that at Michel's direction, BIT.Management LLC's clients bypassed making payments to BIT.Management LLC entirely and paid NYAM or Bit Mining International, depriving BIT.Management LLC – and, by extension, Yang – of income.”  However, no evidence has currently been cited to support this and justify the disclosure of all of NYAM’s transactions, which apparently include a multitude of irrelevant apparel-based transactions.  Also, the Court, in the exercise of its discretion, will temporally limit the subpoenas to December 1, 2017, to January 16, 2020.Further, given the narrowing of the subpoenas, there is no issue as to a notice to consumer.Next, the contention that documents must first be sought from NYAM is incorrect; fails to take into consideration the factual circumstances in Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216; and fails to take into consideration that bank documents are routinely subpoenaed in misappropriation cases.  Finally, if the parties’ protective order does not already allow such, the Court modifies the protective order to allow either party to designate documents as confidential after receiving such documents from a third-party.In sum, the Motion to Quash is granted in part; the subpoenas are narrowed to involve only the transactions set forth above.  Given the mixed results, the Court declines to award sanctions. Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 