 Case Number:  24STCV02834    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PABLO
  H. DURELLI,  
  
         vs.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, et
  al.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV02834
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 28, 2024



 
Defendant Hyundai
Motor America’s motion to compel arbitration is denied.
 
Defendant Hyundai Motor
America (“HMA”) moves to compel Plaintiff Pablo H. Durelli (“Durelli”)
(“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate his claims and stay all proceedings in this action
pending completion of arbitration. 
(Notice Compel Arbitration, pg. 1; 9 U.S.C. §§1-16; C.C.P. §§1281 et seq.)
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s 10/15/24
evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Vijay Rao (“Rao”) is sustained as
to No. 1.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
HMA’s 6/11/24 request for
judicial notice of the Complaint filed in the instant action is denied because
this Court does not need to take judicial notice of filings on the instant
docket.
 
          Background
On February 2, 2024,
Plaintiff his operative complaint in the instant action against HMA and
Non-moving Defendant DTHLA Motors, LLC d/b/a Hyundai of Downtown Los Angeles
(“DTHLA”) alleging four causes of action: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act-
breach of express warranty [against HMA]; (2) violation of Song-Beverly
Act- breach of implied warranty [against HMA]; (3) violation of
Song-Beverly Act §1793.2 [against HMA]; and (4) negligent repair [against
DTHLA].  Plaintiff’s causes of action
stem from Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2019 Hyundai Ioniq on January 13, 2020.  (Complaint ¶9.)
On June 11, 2024, HMA filed
the instant motion.  Plaintiff filed his opposition
on October 15, 2024.  HMA filed its reply
on October 21, 2024.
          
          Motion to Compel Arbitration
Enforceability
of the Arbitration Agreement
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will
preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, HMA fails to
meet its burden. HMA fails to demonstrate Plaintiff entered into an agreement
to arbitrate.  
HMA
merely declares the process by which a customer would agree to the Connected
Services Agreement (“CSA”) that contains the arbitration agreement
(“Arbitration Agreement”) at issue.  Exhibit
1 to the Declaration of Vijay Rao (“Rao”) is the acknowledgment checkbox screen
that Plaintiff “would have seen when [he] activated Bluelink services,” and
Exhibit 2 is the Bluelink Agreement “that was in effect at that time.”  (Decl. of Rao ¶6, Exhs. 1, 2.)  These documents are generic, not specific to
Plaintiff, and do not establish that they apply to Plaintiff.  
Additionally,
HMA has not shown Plaintiff actually checked the box, or otherwise “signed” or
agreed to the CSA.  Further, Rao’s
declaration does not state, for example, that all purchasers of Hyundai
vehicles must enroll in the Bluelink Agreement, or otherwise explain how he
knows Plaintiff enrolled in the Bluelink service.
Indeed,
Exhibit 1 attached to Mr. Rao’s declaration, entitled “Complimentary
Subscription,” states: “Your Hyundai includes 3 years of complimentary Blue
Link services which offers a suite of safety and convenience features. This
subscription includes the Connected Care, Remote and Guidance packages.”  (See Decl. of Rao, Exh. 1.)  Exhibit 1 only demonstrates that the
subscription is voluntary or optional, not that Plaintiff agreed to the terms
and conditions of the CSA, including the Arbitration Agreement.
HMA
also failed to meet its burden to demonstrate the causes of action in
Plaintiff’s Complaint arises from the CSA and thereby implicates the
Arbitration Agreement.  Here, arbitration
only applies to claims related to the “connected services” that are the subject
of the agreement, not the statutory warranty claims brought by Plaintiff.  (See Decl. of Rao ¶6, Exh. 2 at §15(c) [“Hyundai
and you agree to arbitrate any and all disputes and claims between us arising out
of or relating to this Agreement Connected Services, Connected Services
Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services,
or programs you purchase, enroll in or seek product/service support for,
whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through mobile
application, except any disputes or claims which under governing law are not
subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. This
agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all
disputes and claims between us subject to arbitration to the fullest extent
permitted by law.”].) 
The
CSA distinguishes between the “Connected Services” that are discussed in the
CSA and other issues that may be covered by HMA’s warranty.  (See Decl. of Rao ¶6, Exh. 2 at §11
[“YOUR VEHICLE’S LIMITED WARRANTY does not cover the Connected Services or
the wireless service, which is provided to you on an “as is” and “where is”
basis, without any warranty of any kind, express or implied”].)  Moreover, the CSA contemplates services and
systems that relate to communication/digital features, not general warrantable
issues involving traditional components in the vehicle, such as the engine,
transmission, etc.  (See Decl. of Rao
¶6, Exh. 2 at §1 [“Your Hyundai or Genesis vehicle, (“Vehicle”) must come with
an authorized Hyundai Bluelink or Genesis Connected Services telematics system (“Connected
Services System”), which is the equipment, including hardware and software,
sued to provide Connected Services to your Vehicle.”]; see Exh. 2 at §8.].)
Moreover,
the CSA arbitration clause specifically states that “in the unlikely event that
the appropriate customer service department is unable to resolve your concerns,
we each agree to resolve those disputes through binding arbitration.” (See
Decl. of Rao ¶6, Exh. 2 at §15(c).)  Notably,
Plaintiff did not raise any such concerns with HMA’s customer service
departments such that arbitration would be invocable as to those disputes.  Plaintiff’s warranty claims are statutory in
nature, and are unrelated to the services offered and disputes contemplated in
the CSA.
The
inclusion of “your Vehicle” in the arbitration clause (buried within an
agreement specifically outlining terms and conditions for “Connected Services”
that are not covered by Defendant’s warranty) does not support any argument
that the parties reasonably intended such arbitration would govern disputes
over warrantable defects. If they had, there would be no reason to include any
of the other categories of disputes that would be subject to arbitration as
they would be nothing more than surplusage, which courts are to avoid if at all
possible.  (VFLA Eventco, LLC v.
William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, LLC (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 287,
297.)
Here,
the CSA’s arbitration clause applies only to concerns that relate to the “Connected
Services” that are the subject of the agreement and that Defendant’s customer service
departments (upon being notified by a consumer) are unable to resolve. To
interpret the CSA’s arbitration clause as contemplating any claim that relates to
Plaintiff’s “vehicle,” such an interpretation would render the rest of the
specified types of disputes as surplusage, as they all relate to the vehicle as
well.  A more reasonable interpretation
of the CSA’s arbitration clause is that it covers only disputes arising under
or relating to the “Connected Services” governed by the agreement itself, and
not Plaintiff’s warranty claims.
Based on the foregoing, HMA failed to prove
the existence of a valid Arbitration Agreement that is enforceable by HMA. 
 
Conclusion
HMA’s motion to
compel arbitration is denied.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  