  Case Number:  22STCV10768    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HEALTHCARE
  MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATES, INC., et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
R.O.A.R.
  MANAGEMENT COMPANY, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV10768
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 28, 2024



 
Cross-Defendants
Healthcare Management Associates, Inc.’s, Mary Aviles’, National
Intra-Operative Monitoring, Inc.’s, and Orangewood Surgical Center LLC’s
unopposed motion for a stay of all discovery pending the
issuance of a Remittitur by the Court of Appeal is denied as moot.
 
Cross-Defendants
Healthcare Management Associates, Inc. (“HMA”), Mary Aviles (“Aviles”),
National Intra-Operative Monitoring, Inc. (“NIOM”), and Orangewood Surgical
Center LLC (“Orangewood”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) move for an order staying
all discovery in this matter until the issuance of a Remittitur by the Court of
Appeal.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Background
On
July 30, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed the instant motion.  As of the date of this hearing no opposition
has been filed.
On August
26, 2024, the Court of Appeal issued its opinion on the instant case, remanding
to this Court with directions to vacate its order denying the motion to strike
and to enter a new order granting the motion in part and striking references to
specified portions of the first amended cross-complaint (“FAXC”), and affirming
this trial court’s denial of the remainder of the challenged allegations Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike.  (See Appeal
Opinion, pg. 41.)
 
Discussion
Cross-Defendants’
motion is denied as moot. 
Cross-Defendants’ requested relief is no longer necessary in light of
the fact that the Court of Appeal restored this Court’s jurisdiction over the instant
matter.  (See Appeal Opinion, pg.
41.)
 
Conclusion
Cross-Defendants’
unopposed motion for a stay of proceedings is denied as moot.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  