  Case Number:  23STCV07020    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ADVANCED LABS, INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV07020
  Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to uphold
  confidential designation  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood
Santa Fe, LLC filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs, Inc. and
Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty arising from
unpaid rent. 
            On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to uphold confidential designation. Defendants filed their
opposition on April 8, 2024. Plaintiff filed its reply on April 12, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The recipient of a document demand may
move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060(a).) “The court, for
good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party
or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or
undue burden and expense.” (Id., subd. (b).) “The issuance and
formulation of protective orders are to a large extent discretionary.” (Nativi
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 316.) “[T]he
burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for
whatever order is sought.” (Id. at p. 318.) 
DISCUSSION
            A protective order may be used to
prevent disclosure of “a trade secret or other confidential research,
development, or commercial information.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060(b)(5).)
The protective order in this case provides that “[t]he Designating Party shall
have the right to designate as ‘Confidential’ any Documents, Testimony or
Information that the Designating Party in good faith believes to contain
non-public information that is entitled to confidential treatment under
applicable law.” (Gershman Decl., Ex. 2 ¶ 2.) 
            Plaintiff avers that due to the
nature of the business transaction at issue, “many of Plaintiff’s produced
discovery records concern Plaintiff’s confidential, private and sensitive
business and commercial information, and include documents such as financial
information, loan documents, internal communications, and the like.” (Gershman
Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff argues that “[d]isclosure of Plaintiff’s private business
information would create a substantial risk of injury if disclosed to the
public—including potential competitors, renters, or purchasers.” (Mtn. 9:9-11.)
This sufficiently establishes good cause for a confidential designation. 
            Defendants object to Plaintiff’s
designation of its entire production as confidential. However, given the nature
of the case and the information sought, the entire production may well be
confidential. Defendants’ own meet and confer letter acknowledges that the
production consists of “(1) communications between the parties regarding lease
negotiations and rental payments; (2) lease statements; (3) CAM
reconciliations; (4) contracts between the parties; (5) cannabis licenses; (6)
three (3) day notices and proofs of service; and (7) listing agreements,
letters of intent and offers.” (Gershman Decl., Ex. 3.) Defendants identified
these as “business documents involving commercial transactions.” (Ibid.)
This actually confirms that the production contains “non-public information
that is entitled to confidential treatment under applicable law.” (Id.,
Ex. 2 ¶ 2.) Defendant correctly points out that publicly recorded documents are
not confidential, but Plaintiff has already agreed to de-designate those
documents. (Id., Ex. 4.) Defendant does not otherwise explain why the
remaining documents are not confidential.
            The protective order places the
burden on Defendant to justify its objections. (See Gershman Decl., Ex. 2 ¶ 6
[requiring the objecting party to “advise counsel for the Designating Party, in
writing, of such objections, the specific Documents, Testimony or Information
to which each objection pertains, and the specific reasons and support for such
objections”].) Defendant did not identify any particular document as
non-confidential nor provide an explanation. As discussed above, Plaintiff has
established that a confidential designation is warranted for its entire
production, save for certain publicly recorded documents. Defendant cites to Nativi
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 319 for the
proposition that sweeping protective orders are an abuse of discretion.
However, the parties here stipulated to the standard form protective order, and
the Court did not issue a sweeping protective order. Instead, the issue here is
the proper designation for documents produced under the protective order. The
Court finds that the documents have been properly designated as confidential.   
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to uphold
confidential designation is GRANTED. 