  Case Number:  22TRCV01468    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 5, 2023¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01468
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ronald
Guritzky v. Herbert James Henry, Jr., etc., et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Ronald Guritzky
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Herbert James Henry, jr., etc., et al. (No Opposition)
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        July 29, 2024 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses from Defendant to Respond to Form Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2)
 Motion to Compel Further
Responses from Defendant to Respond to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(3) Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant to
Respond to Request for Production of Documents, Set One
(4) Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant to
Respond to Requests for Admission, Set One
(5) Request for Sanctions
¿
Tentative Rulings:                  (1-5)  Continue hearing to January 29, 2024 to permit
self-represented Defendant to meaningfully meet and confer to narrow scope of disputed
discovery responses.  Other dates are
noted below to complete the process and for Plaintiff to submit a follow-up report
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff,
Ronald Guritzky (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Herbert J.
Henry, Jr., and DOES 1 through 10. On December 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Promissory Note; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Common Counts – Open Book Account;
and (4) Common Counts – Account Stated. 
 
On May 22, 2023, Plaintiff
propounded on Defendant his first set of discovery requests. On August 7, 2023,
Plaintiff notes that Defendant served his response to Plaintiffs discovery
requests. However, Plaintiff notes that upon receipt of the responses,
Plaintiff contended that Defendant’s responses were deficient procedurally and
substantively, and not Code compliant. As a result, on August 18, 2023,
Plaintiff sent a letter to defendant outlining the deficiencies in his
responses. However, Plaintiff contends that having no response received by
August 28, 2023, on August 31, 2023, Plaintiff sent a follow up letter granting
him additional seven (7) days to provide the further responses. Again,
Plaintiff asserts that there was no response. 
 
As such, Plaintiff has brought
these four motions to compel further. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed his motions to
compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
Requests for Production of Documents, and Requests for Admission, Set One. To
date, no opposition briefs have been filed.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Motions to
Compel Responses 
 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411
            Further, where there has
been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the
demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.)
Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work
product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief
from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There
is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to
respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court
before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular response
to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an
order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.”  Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the
propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(b).)    
 
Here, Plaintiff notes that he has sent
letters to Defendant to discuss the insufficiencies Plaintiff has identified in
Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s first set of discovery responses, but that
Defendant has failed to respond. The Court notes that Defendant appears to be
representing himself in pro per. Although defending a lawsuit without a lawyer may
be a difficult task, the law does not treat individuals representing themselves
differently than those represented by counsel. The Court also notes that
Defendant has successfully appeared at previous minute orders. As such, the
Court’s tentative ruling is to order the parties to meaningfully meet and
confer about the allegedly insufficient responses. The Court orders Plaintiff
to provide a status update as to the result of the meet and confer efforts,
what requests still require further responses, etc.. 
 
As for the Defendant, the Court will provide
some guidance as to discovery proceedings in California. As for the Form
Interrogatories, these requests for information have previously been approved
by the Judicial Council as an inexpensive and straightforward way for parties
to formal exchange data and facts bearing on claims and defenses in
lawsuits.  As such, the Court will almost
always grant motions to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories.
Further, as for all of the requested discovery, answers must address each and
every portion of the request. If Defendant does not have enough evidence,
facts, or documents to provide a response, he may indicate so in the response.
In response to Requests for Admission, Defendant may respond with: (1) Admit;
(2) Deny; or (3) Defendant cannot admit nor deny the matters set forth in the
request because he does not have knowledge of these matters, despite a
reasonable inquiry into the matter. Next, many of Defendant’s objections are
not actual objections. Defendant may look up common objections to discovery
requests on selfhelp.courts.ca.gov/discovery-civil/common-objections. 
 
The Court orders the parties to “meet and
confer” in good faith by January 9, 2024. Meeting in this sense means
communication, and the meeting can be on Zoom, phone, or in person.  Plaintiff’s status update is ordered to be
filed with the Court by January 23, 2024. On the Court’s own motion, this
hearing is continued to January 29, 2024 at 8:30 am. It is at that time that
the Court will address the issue of sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give written notice of this
ruling.   
¿¿¿¿ 