 Case Number:  24LBCV00282    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Petitioner and Respondent are
involved in an uninsured motorist arbitration proceeding.  Petitioner commenced this action on 2/09/24
for the sole purpose of obtaining a case number to resolve discovery disputes,
over which the court, and not the arbitrator, has sole jurisdiction.  
 
2.     RFAs
Petitioner propounded RFAs on
Respondent.  Respondent served responses,
and the parties met and conferred.  The
parties were unable to resolve their dispute, and therefore Petitioner filed
this motion to compel Respondent to serve further responses.  
 
a.     Burden
on Motion
The burden to justify an objection
to a discovery request is on the party asserting the objection.  See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.  
 
b.     RFA
2
Petitioner’s RFA 2 asks Respondent
to admit that Respondent received her demand package.  Respondent’s response consisted of two
objections, one on the ground that the RFA is vague and ambiguous, and the
other on the ground that the RFA seeks irrelevant information, as the only
issue in the parties’ arbitration is causation and damages.  
 
Respondent, in opposition to the
motion, fails to meaningfully justify either objection.  Respondent makes no argument at all
concerning its vague and ambiguous objection, and argues only that its
response, on its face, shows the RFA seeks irrelevant information.  Respondent failed to provide any legal
authority for the position that only causation and damages are at issue in the
arbitration, and that receipt of a claim is not relevant to the
proceeding.  
 
The objections are overruled.  The motion to compel is granted.  Respondent must serve a further response,
without objections.
 
c.     RFA
7
RFA 7 seeks an admission that
Petitioner was injured in the subject incident. 
Respondent interposed several objections, and then stated it could
neither admit nor deny because it lacks sufficient information to do so.  Respondent does not, in opposition to the
motion, attempt to justify its objections, which are therefore overruled.  It does, however, stand by its statement that
it lacks sufficient information to admit or deny the RFA.  
 
CCP §2033.220(b) permits a party
responding to RFAs to admit, deny, or claim inability to admit or deny.  §2033.220(c), however, requires a party so
responding to include a statement that a reasonable inquiry was made to obtain
the information sought.  Respondent
failed to include that statement.  
 
The objections are overruled.  The motion to compel a further response is
granted.  Respondent must provide a
further response, without objections. 
Respondent is admonished that, pursuant to Asociation for Los Angeles
Deputy Sheriffs v. Macias (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 1007, 1028-1029, if
it chooses to assert lack of information, cost of proof sanctions could
potentially be awarded at the conclusion of the arbitration.  
 
d.     RFA
8
RFA 8 seeks an admission that
Petitioner sought medical treatment as a result of the incident.  The same analysis that applies to RFA 7
applies, and a further response must be provided per the above analysis.
 
e.     RFA
10
RFA 10 seeks an admission that
Respondent has not paid Petitioner any money to compensate her for damages
arising out of the incident.  Respondent
asserted various objections, most of which it does not attempt to justify in
opposition to the motion.  Respondent
argues the RFA does not seek relevant information, but does not meaningfully
articulate why that is the case; notably, if Respondent has paid Petitioner
money in connection with her claim, that would clearly be relevant to her
attempt to recover her damages in connection with the arbitration.  The objections are overruled, and a further
response, without objections, is compelled.
 
f.      RFAs
11 and 12
RFAs 11 and 12 seek admissions that
Respondent has searched the internet for information about Petitioner (11) and
that Respondent did so to disparage her credibility (12).  Respondent asserted various objections, none
of which it attempted to justify in its opposition.  The objections are overruled, and Respondent
must serve a further response, without objections.  
 
g.     RFAs
13, 14, 15, and 16
It is unclear why the parties lump
these RFAs together in their analysis. 
RFAs 13 and 14 are clearly related to each other, and they seek
admissions that Petitioner provided Respondent with documented medical bills in
excess of $47,297.25 (13) and “less than $47,297.25” (14).  The analysis re: these RFAs is the same as
the analysis re: RFA 2, above, and the objections are overruled and a further
response is compelled for the reasons set forth in connection with RFA 2.
 
RFA 15 seeks an admission that
Respondent received medical records in her demand package.  The objections are overruled and a further
response is compelled for the same reasons.
 
RFA 16 seeks an admission that
Respondent owes Petitioner a duty of good faith and fair dealing.  CCP §2033.010 permits an RFA to require a
defendant to admit an application of law to fact.  Respondent failed to justify any objection to
this RFA, and therefore all objections are overruled and Respondent must serve
a further response, without objections.
 
h.     Sanctions

Petitioner seeks sanctions in
connection with the motion. 
Specifically, she seeks monetary sanctions against Respondent’s attorney
of record.  CCP §2033.290(d) requires the
Court to award monetary sanctions unless it finds the responding party acted
with good cause or substantial justification. 
Respondent did not, in its opposition papers, meaningfully justify its
objections to discovery, and therefore failed to make this showing.  
 
Petitioner seeks sanctions in the
amount of $1800, which amount is fully supported by her attorney’s
declaration.  Respondent’s attorney is
ordered to pay sanctions to Petitioner, by and through her attorney of record,
in the total amount of $1800, within twenty days.  
 
i.      Conclusion
Petitioner’s motion to compel
further responses is granted as set forth fully above.  Respondent must served further responses, in
compliance with the above order, within twenty days.  Petitioner’s request for sanctions is granted
as set forth above.
 
3.     Post-Arbitration
Status Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a post-arbitration status conference on calendar today concurrently with the
hearing on the above motion.  The Court
asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the conference and
hearing on the motion.