  Case Number:  20LBCV00353    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, M.I. Air Corporation
filed this action against Defendant, Hanseo University for breach of contract
and common counts arising out of an alleged failure to pay in connection with
the parties’ flight training agreement.  Plaintiff
filed the action on 8/06/20, but due to service delays, Defendant did not
respond until 4/23/21.  
 
On 11/02/22, Defendant filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff and also against Han Gap-Su aka Sebastian Han,
who was named for the first time as a cross-defendant.  The essence of the cross-complaint is that Hanseo
leased aircraft to Mi Air, which was owned and operated wholly by Han, and MI
Air/Han failed to pay lease fees and failed to return the aircraft to Hanseo.  Additionally, Hanseo alleges MI Air and Han
are improperly using the aircrafts for their own benefit.  The cross-complaint includes claims for
breach of contract, claim and delivery, and conversion.  
 
2.     Motion
to Amend Judgment
a.    
Statement of Decision
This case proceeded to trial by
bench, and at the conclusion of the trial, the Court issued its Statement of
Decision.  The Statement of Decision was
entered on 11/28/23.  The Statement of
Decision indicates the Court finds in favor of Hanseo on its breach of contract
claim in the amount of $199,931.00 (which amount includes an off-set in the
amount of $175,900 that Hanseo owed M.I. Air). 
The Statement of Decision also indicates the Court finds in favor of
Hanseo on its conversion claim, and awards damages in the amount of $1 million,
which damages are awarded against Hanseo USA, LLC and Han Gap-Su.  
 
On 12/15/23, the Court entered
Judgment.  The judgment is in favor of
Hanseo University and against MI Air Corporation in the amount of $199,931 and
in favor of Hanseo University and against Hanseo USA, LLC and Han Gap-Sui,
jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,000,000.  
 
b.     Relief
Sought
Hanseo University (hereafter
“Hanseo”) moves to amend the judgment to add H2 Link Company (hereafter “H2”)
as a judgment debtor on the cross-claim judgment in the amount of $1
million.  Hanseo contends H2 is Hanseo
USA, LLC’s alter ego and therefore the judgment must be amended to add H2 as a
debtor in the interest of justice.   
 
c.     Analysis
Despite the lack of opposition to
the motion, the motion is denied for two reasons.  First, Hanseo has not served H2, which is a
necessary precondition to entry of judgment against it.  See Milrot v. Stamper Medical Corp. (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 182, 186.  
 
Second, pursuant to Relentlesss Air
Racing, LLC v. Airborne Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th
811, 817-818 and Jines v. Abarbanel (1978) 77 Cal.App.3d 702, 717, amendment of
a judgment may be denied when the judgment creditor was aware of the alter ego
relationship before judgment was entered and failed to amend the complaint to
add alter ego allegations.  Hanseo bases
its motion on evidence introduced at trial showing H2  is functionally the same entity as Hanseo USA
and is entirely controlled by Gap-Su. 
Once Hanseo obtained that evidence, Hanseo was obligated to amend its
complaint to proceed against H2 and have judgment entered against H2.  
 
Finally, the Court notes that
Hanseo provides authority permitting entry of judgment against an alter
ego.  An alter ego, by definition, is an
individual person who is entirely controlling a legal entity, such that the
existence of the entity must be disregarded. 
The Court has also located authority permitting, under certain
circumstances, amendment of a judgment through “reverse veil piercing,” which
is when the judgment is against an individual but the individual has hidden his
assets in his wholly controlled entity. 
See Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th
214, 222.  Hanseo failed to provide
authority permitting amendment of a judgment based on the single enterprise
doctrine.  The single enterprise doctrine
is usually applied “vertically” to extend a corporation's liability to its
shareholders; however, it may also be applied “horizontally” to impose
liability upon a “brother/sister” corporation. 
Specifically, single enterprise liability may be established as between
two or more corporations under common ownership if (1) one corporation is but
an instrumentality or conduit of another in the pursuit of a single business
venture (“single enterprise”), and (2) disregard of the separate nature of the
corporations is necessary to prevent an injustice upon one corporation's
creditors.  Las Palmas Associates v. Las
Palmas Center Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1249–1250.  The Court is inclined to find the single
enterprise doctrine could support amendment of the judgment to add H2, but notes
for the record that no authority specifically on point is provided in the
moving papers.  
 
Hanseo is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.