 Case Number:  23LBCV02241    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 The Court issued a tentative
restraining order precluding Defendants from commencing foreclosure proceedings
against Plaintiff’s property.  The
hearing on a motion for preliminary injunction has been continued several
times, with the restraining order remaining in place.
 
On 7/25/24, Defendants filed
opposition papers directed at Plaintiff’s request for an injunction.  The crux of the opposition is two-fold.  First, Defendants contend Plaintiff did not
properly serve them with all moving papers in support of his request for
injunctive relief.  Second, Defendants
contend the amount Plaintiff is obligated to pay on his loan has increased two
times, and he has not made payments in the increased amounts.
It is clear, from the opposition,
that Defendants have obtained the full and complete documents filed by
Plaintiff by accessing the online document imaging system.  While Plaintiff is admonished to ensure full
and complete service of all documents in the future in connection with this
matter, the Court will rule on the matter on its merits despite the prior
service defect.
 
Defendants’ substantive contention
is that Plaintiff has shown he consistently makes payments in the amount of
$1106/month, but his required payment increased to $1144.42 on 12/01/20 and
then to $1897.54 on 12/01/21, and Plaintiff did not make those payments; he
instead continued to make the $1106/month payments.
 
Defendants explain that the
modification agreement clarified that the payment could increase if property
taxes increase or if the premium for hazard insurance increases, which is what
happened here.  Supplemental opposition,
page 4, lines 12-15.
 
It is entirely reasonable that the
payment may have increased from $1106/month to $1144.42/month based on
increased property taxes and/or insurance. 
The Court, however, cannot fathom how the payment then goes up to $1897.54/month
the following year, and there is no meaningful explanation of this increase in
the opposition papers.  The Court has
reviewed Exhibits A and B to the Blunt Declaration, which purport to break down
these increases, and cannot determine why the payments increased or what the
numbers on the sheets mean.  The Court is
aware that, under Prop 13, taxes can only go up by approximately 3% a
year.  While property insurance has gone
up, it defies reason that taxes would go up by approximately $700/MONTH on a
single family home.  
 
Defendants must be prepared to
explain all of these costs during the hearing. 
The Court is inclined to keep the injunction in place and the require
the parties to meet and confer to come up with a payment plan for any past-due
payments that are genuinely due and that Defendants can establish, based on
actual evidence and argument at the hearing, were incurred.  
 
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the motion for
preliminary injunction.  The Court asks
the parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on
the motion.