 Case Number:  22LBCV01065    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 Defendant filed motions to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition and an inspection of Plaintiff’s vehicle on 2/28/24,
setting the motions for hearing on 7/02/24. 
On 6/18/24, Plaintiff filed limited opposition to the motions wherein
she indicates her deposition is scheduled for 7/08/24 and the vehicle
inspection is scheduled for 8/01/24.  On
6/25/24, Defendant filed reply papers, indicating Plaintiff refused to provide
dates until months after the motions were filed, and asking the Court to compel
the deposition and inspection for 7/08/24 and 8/01/24, so Defendant does not
have to file a new motion in the event the deposition and/or inspection does
not go forward.  
 
The Court continued the hearing on
the motions to 8/15/24 and ordered the parties to either take the motions off
calendar or file briefs and declarations concerning the status of the
deposition and inspection at least five days prior to the continued hearing
date.  
On 8/08/24, Plaintiff filed a
timely brief indicating the deposition has been completed.  She indicates the inspection was scheduled,
and Defendant canceled at the last minute; Plaintiff’s expert inspected the
vehicle, but Defendant’s expert did not. 
Plaintiff indicates she opposes any further inspection because the
discovery cut-off has passed, and she opposes a trial continuance because she
needs to sell the vehicle, which continues to be non-operational.  Even if the trial is continued, she opposes a
later inspection because she needs to sell the vehicle.  
 
Notably, nothing in Plaintiff’s
brief constitutes evidence; there were no declarations filed with the
brief.  
 
Defendant also filed a timely brief
on 8/08/24.  Defendant, in its brief,
argues it took seven months for Plaintiff to provide a single inspection date,
provided that date only after Defendant filed its motion, and set the date for
eleven days before the discovery cut-off. 
Defendant notes that its expert was scheduled to testify at trial on
7/31/24, but the trial judge was ill, and therefore the testimony was
rescheduled for 8/01/24, the same date as the inspection.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff is being
unreasonable.  Plaintiff created the
situation by failing to provide dates until after a motion was filed, and by
providing a date very close to the discovery cut-off.  The motion to compel an inspection is
granted.  
 
Counsel are ordered to meet and
confer to schedule an inspection forthwith. 
The Court is hopeful the parties can resolve the issue in a manner that
allows the 9/09/24 trial date to remain on calendar.  If they cannot, the Court will very briefly
continue the trial date to allow the inspection to go forward.  The Court understands Plaintiff’s desire to
dispose of the car, but the action has been pending since 12/23/22, so it is
unclear why that need has suddenly become urgent.  
If the parties submit on the
tentative, they must find a mutually agreeable date for the inspection to go
forward, and the FSC and trial dates will remain on calendar.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.