 Case Number:  24LBCV00165    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Teresa Heim and the
Estate of Donald Heim filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Memorial Health Services, Ali Khoynezhad, M.D., and
MemorialCare Medical Group for wrongful death, negligence, corporate
negligence, willful and wanton misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, and
survival claims.    
 
2.     Demurrer
a.     Initial Note
There are two demurrers on calendar
today.  One is brought by MemorialCare
Medical Group and Dr. Khoynezhad.  The
other is brought by LBMMC and Memorial Health Services.  The two demurrers present the same legal
issues, and will be considered together. 

 
b.    Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
c.     Meet and Confer
Defendants filed meet and confer
declarations with the demurrers, and the Court will rule on the demurrers on
their merits.  
 
d.     Parties’
Positions
Defendants demur to the complaint,
contending (a) wanton and willful misconduct is not a separate cause of action,
and (b) the fraud-based causes of action are not sufficiently pled.  
 
Plaintiffs oppose the
demurrer.  They argue wanton and willful
misconduct is properly pled and the fraud-based claims are properly pled.
 
e.     Request
for Judicial Notice
Plaintiffs, with their opposition,
seek judicial notice of various documents filed in 21STCV19312, a case with
different plaintiffs making similar claims against these same defendants.  The Court takes judicial notice of the fact
that the documents are what they purport to be. 
The Court will, of course, evaluate each action on its own merits, but
does note the similarity in issues presented in the two actions.
 
f.      Fourth
Cause of Action
Defendants demur to the fourth
cause of action for willful and wanton misconduct, contending it is not a
separate cause of action and is duplicative of the negligence cause of
action.  Defendants rely on Berkely v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527 to support their
position.  Berkely, however, set forth
the elements of a cause of action for willful misconduct, noting that they are
more strict than the elements of mere negligence.  If there are elements of a cause of action,
then the cause of action exists.  While
it may be only a “heightened” form of negligence, if Plaintiffs were to merely
plead a negligence claim, Defendants would inevitably argue that they could not
recover on a willful and wanton misconduct theory at trial.  
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is overruled.
 
g.     Sixth
Cause of Action 
Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action
is for fraud and alleges Defendants made false representations and omissions to
cause Decedent to undergo surgeries by doctors not qualified to perform the
surgeries and who did not have adequate staffing and assistance to perform the
surgeries.  
Defendants argue the cause of
action is not pled with the requisite specificity, and therefore the demurrer
should be sustained.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, explain all the various theories upon which they base their fraud
claims.  They explain their claims
against the hospital defendants are based on medical staff warning leadership
that Khoynezhad was performing dangerous and unnecessary surgeries, but the
hospital ignored those warnings.  It
appears this claim sounds in concealment, and the contention is that the
entities concealed these facts from Decedent. 

 
They contend their claims against
Khoynezhad are based on his lies and assurance that he would have the
assistance he needed to perform surgery, including a vascular surgeon, but this
was not the case.  Notably, Plaintiffs do
not point to any specific paragraph in the complaint that contains these
allegations; the complaint is 22 pages long, and the Court cannot quickly
ascertain where these allegations are made.
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.  If Plaintiffs are
relying on different species of fraud, they must plead their claims separately
(one cause of action for fraud by concealment, another for fraud by misrepresentation,
etc.).  If their claims against different
defendants are based on different allegations, they must separate those claims
also.  To the extent their claims are for
affirmative misrepresentation, they must allege all facts relating to the
misrepresentation with specificity in the body of the cause of action for
fraud.  
 
h.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  Defendants’ demurrer is otherwise
overruled.  Plaintiffs are ordered to
file an amended complaint within twenty days. 
Defendants are ordered to file a responsive pleading within the
statutory time thereafter.    
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.