 Case Number:  23LBCV01958    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Stephanie Heras,
individually and on behalf of all other aggrieved employees, filed this action
against Defendants, Transystems Corporation and Overland, Pacific & Cutler,
LLC for enforcement of PAGA.      
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Arbitration
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendants move to compel Plaintiff
to arbitrate this action, contending she signed an arbitration agreement upon
commencement of employment and the agreement covers all claims at issue in this
lawsuit.  It contends that, pursuant to
Viking River and Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Plaintiff must arbitrate her
individual claims and the representative claims must be stayed pending the
outcome of arbitration.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He contends that (a) PAGA claims are excluded
from the arbitration agreement, and (b) the agreement improperly and
unconscionably waives PAGA claims.    
 
Defendant, in reply, contends the
agreement only excludes representative PAGA claims, not individual claims, and
the agreement does not unconscionably require Plaintiff to waive PAGA
claims.    
 
b.    
Language of Arbitration Agreement 
Plaintiff argues the following
language in the parties’ agreement is contradictory and requires denial of the
motion:
Claims Not Covered by the
Agreement: 
• for California employees (only):
claims brought by Employee in state or federal court on behalf of other claimed
aggrieved employees as a private attorney general under California’s Private
Attorneys General Act (PAGA) 
Class, Collective and
Representative Action Waiver:  
The Parties agree: 
• No Covered Claims may be
initiated or maintained on a …representative action basis either in court or
arbitration and all claims must be brought in the party’s individual capacity
not as a plaintiff or class member in any purported …representative proceeding.
The Parties knowingly waive any rights to participate in a ….. representative
action, or as a member of any …representative action, and will not be entitled
to and will decline to accept any recovery from a… representative action, in
any forum, concerning any dispute that could be asserted as a Covered Claim.
 
c.    
First Clause
Plaintiff argues the first clause excludes
PAGA claims from the arbitration agreement, and therefore she need not
arbitrate her claims.  That clause,
again, states as follows:
Claims Not Covered by the
Agreement: 
• for California employees (only):
claims brought by Employee in state or federal court on behalf of other claimed
aggrieved employees as a private attorney general under California’s Private
Attorneys General Act (PAGA) 
 
The clause, on its face, simply
states that claims ON BEHALF OF OTHER AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES are not covered by
the agreement.  Nothing in the clause can
be read or construed to mean that individual claims for wage and hour
violations are not subject to the agreement. 

 
d.     Second
Clause
Plaintiff argues the second clause
impermissibly requires her to waive her right to bring PAGA representative
claims.  To repeat, that clause states:
Class, Collective and
Representative Action Waiver:  
The Parties agree: 
• No Covered Claims may be
initiated or maintained on a …representative action basis either in court or
arbitration and all claims must be brought in the party’s individual capacity
not as a plaintiff or class member in any purported …representative proceeding.
The Parties knowingly waive any rights to participate in a ….. representative
action, or as a member of any …representative action, and will not be entitled
to and will decline to accept any recovery from a… representative action, in
any forum, concerning any dispute that could be asserted as a Covered Claim.
 
While Plaintiff’s position is
understandable, it appears what the clause means is that Plaintiff cannot bring
her covered claim (her individual claim for wage and hour violations) in a
representative action.  Nothing in the
clause says she cannot bring the representative action, only that she cannot
present her own claims in connection with that action.  Notably, this is precisely what the
California Supreme Court, in Adolph v. Uber Techs., Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104, 1123-24 held must happen in these cases: the plaintiff must arbitrate her
individual claims, and if the plaintiff successfully shows she is an aggrieved
employee during the arbitration, then the representative PAGA claims can
proceed in court after the arbitration is complete.  
 
e.     Conclusion
The motion to compel arbitration is
granted.  Plaintiff concedes she signed
the subject agreement, and nothing in the agreement is unenforceable.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to compel
arbitration.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion and CMC.