 Case Number:  22LBCV00049    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     22LBCV00049
On 2/01/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22LBCV00049 against Defendants, 1801-1899 Willow, LLC (“Willow”) and Alma
D. Barnes for specific performance and related claims arising out of
Defendants’ alleged refusal to close escrow on Plaintiff’s purchase of a
commercial property.
 
Plaintiff’s original complaint
remains the operative complaint in the action. 
It includes cause of action for specific performance, breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and declaratory relief.  
 
Additionally, on 11/06/23, Willow
filed a cross-complaint against SEJ for intentional misrepresentation,
fraudulent inducement, recission, breach of contract, and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
2.     22SMCV00217
On 2/16/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22SMCV00217 against Defendants, Escrow L.A., Inc. and Sharon L. Sharp for
breach of fiduciary duty and related claims arising out of Defendants’ refusal
to release the funds that were deposited into the escrow account in connection
with the transaction at issue in 22LBCV00049. 
This action includes causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty,
negligence, breach of written escrow instructions, conversion, declaratory
relief, and injunctive relief.  
 
3.     23LBCV00258,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. Muselli & Company, Inc.
In this action, Willow has sued its
agent, Muselli & Company, contending it learned of pertinent information
during the transaction but failed to disclose that information to Willow.  The complaint includes causes of action for
professional negligence, breach of contract, and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
4.     23LBCV01460,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. First American Title Ins Co
In this case, Willow alleges First
American improperly contacted SEJ and provided it information it was not
entitled to have.  This case includes
causes of action for professional negligence and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
5.     Consolidation
On 12/14/23, the Court consolidated
the two above actions for all purposes.  
 
6.     Motion
for Summary Adjudication
a.    
Prior Ruling
On 2/02/24, the Court heard
Willow’s motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s specific performance
and breach of contract causes of action. 
The Court granted the motion, finding Willow demanded Plaintiff close
escrow per the parties’ agreement, and Plaintiff failed to do so, such that the
contract-based claims failed.  
 
b.    
Relief Sought
Willow moves for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s remaining causes of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional and negligent
misrepresentation, and declaratory relief rise and fall with the breach of
contract claims, and therefore Willow is entitled to adjudication of the
remaining claims pled against it.  
 
c.     Standard
on Summary Adjudication
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
d.    
Evidentiary Objections
Both parties submitted objections
with the opposition and reply papers.  A
ruling on the objections would not change the ruling on the motion, and
therefore the Court declines to rule on the objections.  CCP §437c(q). 
The Court notes that much of Plaintiff’s evidence was already
adjudicated in connection with the prior summary adjudication motion, and is
not admissible for the reasons discussed therein.
 
e.     Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
SEJ’s third cause of action is for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Willow moves for summary adjudication of the
cause of action, contending the Court’s ruling on the motion for summary
adjudication of the breach of contract claims is fatal to the breach of the
implied covenant claim.  
 
For contracts other than insurance
contracts, the tort of bad faith denial of the existence of a contract has been
abolished in California.  (Freeman &
Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85.)  However, outside the insurance context, a
tortious breach of contract generally may be found when: 
(1) the breach is accompanied by a
traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion;
(2) the means used to breach the
contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue coercion; or
(3) one party intentionally
breaches the contract intending or knowing that such a breach will cause
severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental anguish, personal hardship, or
substantial consequential damages.  Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543.
 
Plaintiff cites no authority, in
opposition to the motion, for the position that a breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing can survive without a breach of the
contract itself.  Plaintiff primarily
relies on its arguments made in opposition to the prior motion, wherein
Plaintiff argued the breach of contract claims should survive summary
adjudication.  Those arguments were
previously rejected, and are rejected again at this time.  The motion for summary adjudication of the
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of action
is granted.   
 
f.     
Intentional and Negligent
Misrepresentation
SEJ’s fourth and fifth causes of
action are for intentional and negligent misrepresentation.  SEJ alleges, at ¶64 of the complaint, that
Willow represented it would sell the property for $8.5 million and close escrow
on 10/25/21; then, on 10/22/21, Willow represented that it had deposited a
signed and notarized grant deed for the property into escrow on 10/22/21.  At ¶66 of the complaint, Plaintiff alleges
the above representations were false.  
 
Defendant had the moving burden,
therefore, to negate those allegations or to show that those allegations, even
if true, do not constitute fraud. 
Defendant argues the representations alleged in the complaint could not
have been misrepresentations because the Court already found Defendant
performed all requirements to close escrow on the property.  The Court finds the fact that it already held
Defendant was ready, willing, and able to close escrow is sufficient to meet
the moving burden to establish its representations that it would close escrow
were not false when made.  The burden
therefore shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, cites to evidence concerning events that took place during the pendency
of escrow to attempt to raise a triable issue of material fact.  Plaintiff focuses on the fact that, during
the pendency of escrow, Defendant received an offer for $1 million more than
Plaintiff’s pending accepted offer.  To
establish fraud in the inducement, however, Plaintiff must establish that the
representations at issue were false WHEN MADE, not that they subsequently
became false.
 
Specifically, actionable deceit
exists where a promise is made “without any intention of performing it.”  Civ.Code §1710(4).  In a promissory fraud action, the essence of
the fraud is the existence of an intent at the time of the promise not to
perform it.  To maintain an action for
deceit based on a false promise, one must specifically allege and prove, among
other things, that the promisor did not intend to perform at the time he or she
made the promise and that it was intended to deceive or induce the promisee to
do or not do a particular thing.  Tarmann
v. State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159.  The mere failure to perform a promise made in
good faith does not constitute fraud. 
Id.; and see Building Permit Consultants, Inc. v. Mazur (2004) 122
Cal.App.4th 1400, 1414.
Plaintiff, at most, raises triable
issues of material fact concerning whether Defendant, during pendency of
escrow, developed an intention to frustrate completion of the sale.  That showing, however, even if made, would
not raise a triable issue of material fact concerning whether the statements
were false when made.  
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the fraud causes of action is therefore also granted.
 
g.     Declaratory
Relief
Plaintiff’s declaratory relief
cause of action seeks a declaration of the parties’ rights and responsibilities
under their contract.  This cause of
action rises and falls with the breach of contract causes of action, and
summary adjudication is granted.  
 
g.         Conclusion
Because summary adjudication of
each remaining cause of action is appropriate, Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment on the entire complaint is granted. 

 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.