 Case Number:  21STCV41982    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 15, 2021, Plaintiffs Habtamu Haile (“Haile”) and Redet Beyene filed
this action against Defendants Nour Global, LLC dba
ARCO, Frank Porras (“Porras”), and Does 1-60 for violation of Labor Code
section 3706, general negligence (premises liability/negligent security),
battery, and loss of consortium. 
On
April 7, 2022, Defendant Nour Global, LLC filed a general denial. 
On
September 26, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant USG
Oil, LLC (“USG”) as Doe 1. 
On
March 17, 2023, USG filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-20 for
implied indemnity, contribution and indemnity, declaratory relief, express
indemnity, breach of contract, and duty to defend. 
On
May 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Nour
Global, LLC dba ARCO, Porras, and Does 1-60 for violation of Labor Code section
3706, general negligence, battery, and loss of consortium. 
On
June 1, 2023, Defendant Nour Global, LLC filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint.  On June 20 and August 7, 2023, USG filed answers
to Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint. 
On
October 12, 2023, the clerk entered Porras’s default. 
On January 26, 2024, Haile filed motions to compel USG’s
further responses to (1) request for production of documents, set one, and (2)
requests for admission, set one.  The
motions were set to be heard on February 28, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing to March 29,
2024.  On February 14, 2024, USG filed
oppositions.  On February 21, 2024, Haile
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 3, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal
Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
Counsel for Haile and USG participated in IDCs on December 7, 2023 and January 30, 2024. 
B.       Timeliness of motions 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of
the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before
any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd, (c) [demand for inspection]; Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd, (c) [requests for admission].) Failure to file a motion within this time period
constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses. 
On January
26, 2024, Haile filed motions to compel USG’s further responses to request
for production of documents, set one, and requests for admission, set one.  USG does not dispute the timeliness of the
motions. 
C.   Meet and confer 
A
motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(2) [demand for inspection]; Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b)(1)
[requests for admission].)  “A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable
and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)  
Haile has provided meet and confer declarations. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Haile has filed separate statements. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
A.   Motion to compel further responses to
requests for production 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 provides in part: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: 
“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
“(2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
“(3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
each of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(3) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand. 
* * *
  “(h) Except as
provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).) 
B.   Motion to compel further responses to requests
for admission 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.290 provides: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to requests for
admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a
further response if that party deems that either or both of the following
apply: 
“(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete. 
“(2) An objection to a particular request is without
merit or too general. 
“(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the requesting party waives any right
to compel further response to the requests for admission. 
“(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Haile’s motion to compel USG’s further
responses to request for production, set one 
Propounded:                              August 4, 2023 Responses:                                October 9, 2023 Motion
filed:                             January
26, 2024 
          USG objected to the requests for
production based on attorney client privilege and work product doctrine. “When
asserting claims of privilege or attorney work product protection, the
objecting party must provide ‘sufficient factual information’ to enable other parties
to evaluate the merits of the claim, ‘including, if necessary, a privilege log.’
”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1474.5, p. 8H-27
(Cal. Practice Guide).)  USG has not
carried its burden of providing preliminary facts supporting the application of
attorney client privilege or work product protection because USG did not identify
any specific confidential communications or provide a privilege log.  (See ibid.) 
          USG also
asserted that the requests for production violate “the privacy rights of
Responding Party and third-parties.”  Even highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be
shielded from discovery if its disclosure would impair a person’s right to
privacy under State or federal law.  (Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97.) 
“Unlike privilege, the protection afforded is
qualified, not absolute.  In each case,
the court must carefully balance the right of privacy against the need for
discovery [citation].  The showing
required to overcome the protection depends on the nature of the privacy right
asserted; in some cases, a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in
others, a compelling interest must be shown. 
(Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:294, p. 8C-98.)  “The burden is on ‘the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies.’”  (Ibid.) 
USG has not carried its burden.  USG has not identified the individuals whose
privacy rights are at issue or described the extent and the seriousness of the
prospective invasion.  Therefore, the
Court overrules USG’s privacy objections. 
The Court grants Haile’s motion and orders USG to provide
further, code-compliant, verified responses to all of Haile’s requests for
production of documents and to produce the documents, electronically stored
information, and/or other things requested by April 29, 2024. 
B.       Haile’s motion to compel USG’s further
responses to requests for admission, set one 
Propounded:                              August 4, 2023 Responses:                                October 9, 2023 Motion
filed:                             January
26, 2024
USG
objected to the requests for admission based on attorney client privilege.  “In response to
a motion to compel answers [citation], the burden is on the party claiming a
privilege to establish whatever preliminary facts are essential to the
claim.  [Citations.]  [¶] 
For example, upon asserting the attorney-client privilege, the client,
or the attorney in the client’s absence, must prove that the attorney-client
relationship existed when the communication was made.  Once this showing is made (typically through
declarations), the communications between the lawyer and client are presumed to
have been made in confidence. 
[Citations.] [¶]  Upon such
showing, the burden shifts to the party seeking discovery to disprove those
facts or to prove some applicable statutory exception (e.g., that the privilege
has been waived [citation]).”  (Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:192, p. 8C-61.) 
As explained above, USG
has not carried its burden of establishing the preliminary facts essential to
support its assertions of attorney client privilege.      
          USG also asserts that the requests for admission violate
“the privacy rights of Responding Party and third-parties.”  As already explained, USG has not carried its
burden of establishing the extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion of privacy. 
The
Court grants Haile’s motion and orders USG to provide further code-compliant,
verified responses to all of Haile’s requests for admission by April 29,
2024. 
C.      Haile’s sanctions requests 
          Haile requests $2,060.00 in sanctions on each
motion based on four hours of attorney time at a rate of $500.00 per hour and
one $60.00 filing fee.  Counsel spent
approximately 2½ hours preparing the moving papers and anticipated spending 1½
hours reviewing USG’s opposition, drafting a reply, and preparing for and
attending the hearing. 
Haile requests sanctions against USG, not USG’s counsel. 
The
Court grants $1,120.00 in sanctions against USG on both motions based on four
hours of attorney time at a reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour and two filing
fees. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Habtamu Haile’s motion to compel Defendant USG Oil, LLC’s
further responses to request for production of documents, set one, and orders
Defendant USG Oil, LLC to provide further verified, code-compliant responses to
request for production of documents, set one, numbers 1-25, and to produce the
documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things requested by April
29, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Habtamu Haile’s motion to compel Defendant USG Oil,
LLC’s further responses to requests for admission, set one, and orders
Defendant USG Oil, LLC to provide further verified, code-compliant responses to
requests for admission, set one, numbers 1-5, by April 29, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Habtamu Haile’s requests for sanctions and orders
Defendant USG Oil, LLC to pay Plaintiff Habtamu Haile $1,120.00 by April 29,
2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 