 Case Number:  22STCV26026    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  August 11, 2022, Plaintiffs Tori Simpson (“Simpson”) and Julie Williams  (“Williams”) filed this action against Defendants Josue Aaron Agustin Molina  (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for negligence.  On  December 6, 2022, Defendant filed an answer.  On  October 17, 2023, the Court found that this case (case number 22STCV26026) and  case number 21STLC03279 are related within the meaning of California Rules of  Court, rule 3.300(a). Case number 22STCV26026 became the lead case. The cases were assigned to Department 28 at the Spring Street  Courthouse for all purposes.  On  January 5, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint  to be heard on March 29, 2024.  No  opposition has been filed.  Trial  is currently scheduled for August 26, 2024.  PARTY’S REQUEST  Defendant  requests leave to file a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Ricky Powell  (“Powell”) and Does 1-10 for comparative indemnity, contribution, and  declaratory relief.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides:  “(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a  party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a  cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his  answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not  thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause  of action not pleaded.  “(b) This section does not apply if either of the  following are established:  “(1) The court in which the action is pending does not  have jurisdiction to render a personal judgment against the person who failed  to plead the related cause of action.  “(2) The person who failed to plead the related cause  of action did not file an answer to the complaint against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:            “A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject  to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,  mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his  pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during  the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall  grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the  pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who  failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be  liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides:  “A party against whom a cause of action has been  asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting  forth either or both of the following:  “(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the  parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this  subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in  an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.  “(b) Any cause of action he has against a person  alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to  the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises  out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or  occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or  interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause  brought against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides:  “(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any  of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her  before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  “(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any  time before the court has set a date for trial.  “(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any  cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)  or (b).  Leave may be granted in the  interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint alleges that on or about August 16, 2020, on Normandie Avenue in Los  Angeles, Defendants negligently entrusted, managed, maintained, drove, and  operated their vehicle, causing it to collide with the vehicle Simpson was  driving, in which Williams was a passenger.  The collision allegedly injured Plaintiffs.  B.    Defendant’s  motion for leave to file cross-complaint  Defendant’s  proposed cross-complainant alleges that some portion of Plaintiffs’ damages  were caused by “the wrongdoing, the negligence [or] other actionable conduct on  the part of [Powell and Cross-Defendants Does 1-10].”  C.      Ruling  The  Court grants the motion for leave to file a cross-complaint.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Josue Aaron Agustin Molina’s  motion for leave to file a cross-complaint.   The Court orders Defendant Josue Aaron Agustin Molina to file and serve  the cross-complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this motion.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.