  Case Number:  21STCV13660    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving and response papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 12, 2021, Plaintiff Menajoyrie Melentha Francis Webster (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Ramiro Montiel Lopez (“Defendant”) and
Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort, general negligence, and emotional distress. 
On
April 3, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
November 22, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to form interrogatories, set one, and for sanctions, to be heard on
March 6, 2024.  The Court continued the
hearing to March 29, 2024.  On March 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed a response. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 29, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
Defendant
scheduled and appeared for an IDC on October 4, 2023.  Plaintiff did not appear.  The Court found that Defendant had satisfied the
IDC requirement. 
B.       Timeliness of motion 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses to interrogatories must be given
within 45 days of the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses,
or on or before any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in
writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) Failure to file a motion
within this time period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further
responses to interrogatories. 
On
November 22, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to form interrogatories, set one. 
Plaintiff does not dispute the timeliness of the motion. 
C.   Meet and confer 
A
motion to compel further responses to interrogatories must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).)  “A meet and confer declaration in support of
a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Defendant
has provided a meet and confer declaration. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Defendant
has filed a separate statement. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: 
“(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete. 
 “(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. 
“(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit
or too general. 
“(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories. 
“(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(e) If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220 provides: 
“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories
shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available
to the responding party permits. 
“(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. 
“(c) If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to form interrogatories, set one 
Propounded:                               April 4, 2023 Responses:                                 July 31, 2023 Supplemental
responses:            March 3, 2024 Motion
filed:                               November 22, 2023
After
Defendant filed his motion, Plaintiff served supplemental responses to the form
interrogatories.  Plaintiff asserts that
the supplemental responses are “complete responses” to the form interrogatories
and that the delay in serving them was the result of her attorney’s “inadvertent
mistake and confusion.”  Based on these
assertions, Plaintiff asks the Court to deny Defendant’s request for sanctions. 
Defendant
has not filed a reply or disputed Plaintiff’s assertions.  Therefore, the Court denies the motion as moot and finds that it would be
unjust to award sanctions against Plaintiff. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES AS MOOT Defendant Ramiro
Montiel Lopez’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories, set
one. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Ramiro Montiel Lopez’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.