  Case Number:  23CHCV00351    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV00351    Demurrer Filed: 7/3/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Meco Electric, Inc. (“Moving Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Gregory Karapetian (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: NOT OK(misstates  that this demurrer is being brought against Plaintiff’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.)   RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s entire first amended complaint (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Moving Defendant is ordered to  file and serve its answer to Plaintiff’s FAC within 30 days of this hearing  date.   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: Moving Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted as  to Exhibits 1 and 2, and denied as to Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiff  alleges that in June 2021, he entered a contract with defendants for  installation of a solar panel system at his home, and defendants “failed to  properly construct and install the PV System in good and workmanlike manner on  the SUBJECT PROPERTY by improperly sealing conduits and pipe flashing connections,  as well as creating and leaving holes in the roof that resulted from the solar  panel installation.” (FAC ¶¶ 11, 15.) The construction was completed in  September 2021, and Plaintiff discovered the allegedly defective workmanship  when his property sustained water damage following rainfall on 10/25/21. (Id.  at ¶¶ 13, 16–18.)   On 2/7/23, Plaintiff  filed his original complaint, alleging against nonmoving defendants Solar  Optimum, Inc. and Arnou Aghamalian the following causes of action: (1)  Negligence; (2) Breach of Contract; and (3) Breach of Duty of Good Faith and  Fair Dealing.    On 3/16/23,  nonmoving defendants filed their answers and cross-complaint against Moving  Defendant, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)  Implied Indemnity; (3) Equitable Indemnity; (4) Contribution; (5) Apportionment  of Fault; and (6) Declaratory Relief.   On 4/19/23,  Plaintiff filed his FAC, amending unnamed Doe defendants 1 and 2 to Moving  Defendant and nonmoving defendant Meir Abramovitch.   On 6/23/23,  Moving Defendant filed its answer to the cross-complaint, and filed a  cross-complaint against nonmoving defendant Solar Optimum, Inc. for the  following causes of action: (1) Total Indemnity; (2) Equitable Indemnity; (3)  Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief.   On 7/3/23,  Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer against Plaintiff’s FAC. On 9/14/23,  Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 9/21/23, Moving Defendant filed its reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer based on any single or combination of eight enumerated  grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning “ambiguous and  unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) In a demurrer  proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via  proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116  Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿However, a “court cannot by means of judicial notice  convert a demurrer into an incomplete evidentiary hearing in which the  demurring party can present documentary evidence and the opposing party is  bound by what that evidence appears to show.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.  Fremont General Corp., 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 114–115.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Moving  Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s entire FAC for uncertainty and failure to state  facts sufficient to constitute any of the causes of action therein.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that he emailed Plaintiff’s  counsel to meet and confer regarding the issues raised in the instant demurrer,  but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Decl. of Marc Weinberg ¶  2.) Therefore, the Court finds that Moving Defendant’s counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Negligence   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action alleges against all defendants Negligence. To state a  claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the  existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)  “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC  (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges in his FAC that defendants (1) owed him “a legal duty to  correctly construct and install solar panels onto the SUBJECT PROPERTY as  expressly outlined in the mutual CONTRACT signed by both parties;” (2) breached  those duties by, inter alia, failing to comply with applicable standards of  care, and failing to properly install the solar panels; (3) through their  alleged breaches caused “significant water damage” to the subject property.  (FAC ¶¶ 30–32.)   Moving  Defendant argues that it owed Plaintiff no duty of care because Plaintiff  contracted with nonmoving defendant Solar Optimum, Inc. for the construction  project, and “Meco as a subcontractor of Optimum, were [sic] not contractually  obligated to plaintiff.” (Dem. 8:12–13.) However, in a demurrer proceeding, the  Court assumes the truth of the plaintiff’s factual allegations and does not  weigh evidence presented. (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th  1308, 1315.)   Here, as Plaintiff observes, he has lodged his complaint  and all the causes of action contained therein against all defendants named in  the action, including Moving Defendant. “Plaintiff specifically alleges in the  FAC that Plaintiff and [Moving] Defendant entered into a contractual agreement,  under which Defendant would ‘construct and install the system in good and  workmanlike manner; and ensure that all workmanship would meet or exceed all  applicable building codes and standards.’” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:24–28, quoting FAC ¶¶  15, 16.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court is satisfied at the  demurrer stage that Plaintiff has properly alleged facts to state each element  of a cause of action for Negligence against all defendants. Accordingly, the  Court overrules Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of  action.   C.    Breach  of Contract   Plaintiff’s second cause of action  alleges against all defendants Breach of Contract. To state a cause of action  for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the  existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance,  (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis  West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) A written contract  may be pleaded either verbatim or generally “according to its legal intendment  and effect.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins.  Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges in his FAC  that (1) “Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a contractual agreement on or  about June 9, 2021;” (2) “Plaintiff fully performed all, or substantially all,  conditions, covenants, and promises to be performed;” (3) “Defendants breached  the CONTRACT by failing to perform all obligations under the CONTRACT,  including but not limited to failing to properly install solar panels on the  SUBJECT PROPERTY;” and (4) “As a direct and proximate cause of Defendants’  breach of the CONTRACT, Plaintiff has been damaged in an amount to be proven at  trial.” (FAC ¶¶ 37, 39, 41, 43.) Plaintiff also alleges that “in the terms of  the CONTRACT, Defendants agreed to provide all labor, equipment, and materials  required to install a functioning PV System; obtain and pay for all necessary  approvals, permits, and inspections required for the work; provide and pay for  labor, materials, equipment, tools, construction equipment and machinery  necessary for proper execution and completion of the work; construct and  install the system in good and workmanlike manner; and ensure that all  workmanship would meet or exceed all applicable building codes and standards.”  (Id. at ¶ 16.)   Moving  Defendant argues that “if there was one contract and one claim for damages,  then plaintiff must identify who is the party that he claims breached the  contract. Plaintiff cannot have a contract with two separate entities to do the  same work and then claim they each owe plaintiff damages.” (Dem. 6:27–7:1.) In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Defendant’s argument that the existence of  one agreement between Plaintiff and another party negates the possibility that  any agreement and/or legal duty could exist between Defendant and Plaintiff is  not only incorrect, but also a question of fact.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:6–8.)   As the  Court finds above, and as Plaintiff observes, “Plaintiff’s FAC explicitly names  [Moving] Defendant and further alleges that Plaintiff and [Moving] Defendant  entered into a contractual agreement, leaving no ambiguity as to Plaintiff’s  allegations against [Moving] Defendant.” (Id. at 7:12–14.) Plaintiff’s  amendment to his complaint to name previously unnamed Doe defendants does not  constitute an inconsistent factual pleading that would render his complaint  subject to demurrer, nor does Moving Defendant cite to any authority that  states otherwise. The Court is therefore satisfied at  the demurrer stage that Plaintiff has properly alleged facts to state each  element of a cause of action for Breach of Contract against all defendants.  Accordingly, the Court overrules Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s  second cause of action.   D.    Breach  of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges against all defendants Breach of Duty of Good  Faith and Fair Dealing. Every contract contains an implied covenant of good  faith and fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with  the other party's right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v.  American Nat'l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise  nature and extent of the duty depends on the nature and purpose of the  underlying contract and the parties' legitimate expectations arising from the  contract. (Ibid.) “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a  breach of the contract … and breach of a specific provision of the contract is  not ... necessary to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith  and fair dealing.” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC  (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)    However,  “if the allegations [of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing] do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying  on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already  claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as  superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v.  Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that: “Defendants  breached the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing by: (1) including  vague and/or misrepresented terms of the CONTRACT; improperly conducting  services as agreed upon explicitly or implicity [sic] in the CONTRACT; failing  to remedy improper construction and/or installation of the PV System; and  failing to investigate, evaluate, and resolve Plaintiff’s complaints and  concerns regarding water damage resulting from improper and/or faulty  construction and/or installation; (2) denying Plaintiff’s claim for damages  without conducting a fair, unbiased, and thorough investigation or inquiry,  arbitrarily and capriciously, and/or with knowledge that the denial was  unreasonable under the CONTRACT ; (3) misrepresenting CONTRACT terms; and (4)  compelling Plaintiff to initiate litigation to recover contractual benefits to  which Plaintiff is entitled.” (FAC ¶ 47.)   Moving  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third cause of action fails because it is  redundant of his second cause of action for breach of contract and therefore  superfluous. (Dem. 7:18–8:4.) Plaintiff argues in opposition that he “specifically  alleges that Defendant’s conscious and deliberate acts, as outlined above, are  separate, different from, and beyond Plaintiff’s breach of contract  allegations.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:16–17.) The Court agrees and finds that the above  allegations pertain only to Plaintiff’s third cause of action.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to  support a cause of action for Breach of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  Accordingly, the Court overrules Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s  third cause of action.   E.     Uncertainty   Generally  speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly  construed because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)  “Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently  apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for  uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)    In applying  the stringent standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that  Plaintiff’s complaint is not “so incomprehensible” that Moving Defendant cannot  respond, especially given the extensive analyses it has offered in attacking  the pleading. Even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, ambiguities  can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (A.J. Fistes Corp. v.  GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) Accordingly,  the demurrer is overruled on this basis.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled.  Moving Defendant is ordered to file and serve its answer to Plaintiff’s FAC  within 30 days of this hearing date.DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV00351    Demurrer Filed: 6/30/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Meir Abramovich (“Moving Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Gregory Karapetian (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: NOT OK(misstates  that this demurrer is being brought against Plaintiff’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.)   RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s entire first amended complaint (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Moving Defendant is ordered to  file and serve its answer to Plaintiff’s FAC within 30 days of this hearing  date.   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: Moving Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted as  to Exhibits 1 and 2, and denied as to Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiff  alleges that in June 2021, he entered a contract with defendants for  installation of a solar panel system at his home, and defendants “failed to  properly construct and install the PV System in good and workmanlike manner on  the SUBJECT PROPERTY by improperly sealing conduits and pipe flashing  connections, as well as creating and leaving holes in the roof that resulted  from the solar panel installation.” (FAC ¶¶ 11, 15.) The construction was  completed in September 2021, and Plaintiff discovered the allegedly defective  workmanship when his property sustained water damage following rainfall on  10/25/21. (Id. at ¶¶ 13, 16–18.)   On 2/7/23, Plaintiff  filed his original complaint, alleging against nonmoving defendants Solar  Optimum, Inc. and Arnou Aghamalian the following causes of action: (1)  Negligence; (2) Breach of Contract; and (3) Breach of Duty of Good Faith and  Fair Dealing.    On 3/16/23,  nonmoving defendants filed their answers and cross-complaint against nonmoving  defendant Meco Electric, Inc. (“Meco”).   On 4/19/23,  Plaintiff filed his FAC, amending unnamed Doe defendants 1 and 2 to Moving  Defendant and Meco. On 6/30/23, Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer  against Plaintiff’s FAC. On 9/13/23, Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 9/21/23,  Moving Defendant filed his reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer based on any single or combination of eight enumerated  grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning “ambiguous and  unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) In a demurrer  proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via  proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116  Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿However, a “court cannot by means of judicial notice  convert a demurrer into an incomplete evidentiary hearing in which the  demurring party can present documentary evidence and the opposing party is  bound by what that evidence appears to show.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.  Fremont General Corp., 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 114–115.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Moving  Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s entire FAC for uncertainty and failure to state  facts sufficient to constitute any of the causes of action therein.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that he emailed Plaintiff’s  counsel to meet and confer regarding the issues raised in the instant demurrer,  but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Decl. of Marc Weinberg ¶  2.) Therefore, the Court finds that Moving Defendant’s counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a). // // B.     Negligence   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action alleges against all defendants Negligence. To state a  claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the  existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)  “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC  (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges in his FAC that defendants (1) owed him “a legal duty to  correctly construct and install solar panels onto the SUBJECT PROPERTY as  expressly outlined in the mutual CONTRACT signed by both parties;” (2) breached  those duties by, inter alia, failing to comply with applicable standards of  care, and failing to properly install the solar panels; (3) through their  alleged breaches caused “significant water damage” to the subject property.  (FAC ¶¶ 30–32.)   Moving  Defendant argues that he owed Plaintiff no duty of care because Plaintiff  contracted with nonmoving defendant Solar Optimum, Inc. for the construction  project, and “Meco and its CEO Abramovitch, as a subcontractor of Optimum, were  not contractually obligated to plaintiff.” (Dem. 9:8–9.) However, in a demurrer  proceeding, the Court assumes the truth of the plaintiff’s factual allegations  and does not weigh evidence presented. (E-Fab,  Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)   Here, as Plaintiff observes, he has lodged his complaint  and all the causes of action contained therein against all defendants named in  the action, including Moving Defendant. “Plaintiff specifically alleges in the  FAC that Plaintiff and [Moving] Defendant entered into a contractual agreement,  under which Defendant would ‘construct and install the system in good and  workmanlike manner; and ensure that all workmanship would meet or exceed all  applicable building codes and standards.’” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:24–5:1, quoting FAC ¶¶  15, 16.)   Moving Defendant further argues that there are no  allegations in Plaintiff’s FAC that Moving Defendant is liable, in his personal  capacity, to Plaintiff. (Dem. 6:6–7.) However, as Plaintiff argues in  opposition, “Plaintiff’s FAC specifically names Defendant Abramovitch with  regard to each cause of action, thereby directing all factual allegations to  Defendant Abramovitch.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:25–26.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court is satisfied at the  demurrer stage that Plaintiff has properly alleged facts to state each element  of a cause of action for Negligence against all defendants. Accordingly, the  Court overrules Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of  action.   C.    Breach  of Contract   Plaintiff’s second cause of action  alleges against all defendants Breach of Contract. To state a cause of action  for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the  existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the  plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,  821.) A written contract may be pleaded either verbatim or generally “according  to its legal intendment and effect.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc.  v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges in his FAC  that (1) “Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a contractual agreement on or  about June 9, 2021”; (2) “Plaintiff fully performed all, or substantially all,  conditions, covenants, and promises to be performed”; (3) “Defendants breached  the CONTRACT by failing to perform all obligations under the CONTRACT,  including but not limited to failing to properly install solar panels on the  SUBJECT PROPERTY”; and (4) “As a direct and proximate cause of Defendants’  breach of the CONTRACT, Plaintiff has been damaged in an amount to be proven at  trial.” (FAC ¶¶ 37, 39, 41, 43.) Plaintiff also alleges that “in the terms of  the CONTRACT, Defendants agreed to provide all labor, equipment, and materials  required to install a functioning PV System; obtain and pay for all necessary  approvals, permits, and inspections required for the work; provide and pay for  labor, materials, equipment, tools, construction equipment and machinery  necessary for proper execution and completion of the work; construct and  install the system in good and workmanlike manner; and ensure that all  workmanship would meet or exceed all applicable building codes and standards.”  (Id. at ¶ 16.)   Moving  Defendant argues that “if there was one contract and one claim for damages,  then plaintiff must identify who is the party that he claims breached the  contract. Plaintiff cannot have a contract with two separate entities to do the  same work and then claim they each owe plaintiff damages.” (Dem. 7:23–25.) In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Defendant’s argument that the existence of  one agreement between Plaintiff and another party negates the possibility that  any agreement and/or legal duty could exist between Defendant and Plaintiff is  not only incorrect, but also a question of fact.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:7–9.)   As the  Court finds above, and as Plaintiff observes, “Plaintiff’s FAC explicitly names  [Moving] Defendant and further alleges that Plaintiff and [Moving] Defendant  entered into a contractual agreement, leaving no ambiguity as to Plaintiff’s  allegations against [Moving] Defendant.” (Id. at 7:13–15.) Plaintiff’s  amendment to his complaint to name previously unnamed Doe defendants does not  constitute an inconsistent factual pleading that would render his complaint  subject to demurrer, nor does Moving Defendant cite to any authority that  states otherwise. The Court is therefore satisfied at  the demurrer stage that Plaintiff has properly alleged facts to state each  element of a cause of action for Breach of Contract against all defendants.  Accordingly, the Court overrules Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s  second cause of action.   D.    Breach  of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges against all defendants Breach of Duty of Good  Faith and Fair Dealing. Every contract contains an implied covenant of good  faith and fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with  the other party's right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v.  American Nat'l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise  nature and extent of the duty depends on the nature and purpose of the  underlying contract and the parties' legitimate expectations arising from the  contract. (Ibid.) “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a  breach of the contract … and breach of a specific provision of the contract is  not ... necessary to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith  and fair dealing.” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC  (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)    However,  “if the allegations [of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing] do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying  on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already  claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as  superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v.  Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that: “Defendants  breached the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing by: (1) including  vague and/or misrepresented terms of the CONTRACT; improperly conducting  services as agreed upon explicitly or implicity [sic] in the CONTRACT; failing  to remedy improper construction and/or installation of the PV System; and  failing to investigate, evaluate, and resolve Plaintiff’s complaints and  concerns regarding water damage resulting from improper and/or faulty  construction and/or installation; (2) denying Plaintiff’s claim for damages  without conducting a fair, unbiased, and thorough investigation or inquiry,  arbitrarily and capriciously, and/or with knowledge that the denial was  unreasonable under the CONTRACT ; (3) misrepresenting CONTRACT terms; and (4)  compelling Plaintiff to initiate litigation to recover contractual benefits to  which Plaintiff is entitled.” (FAC ¶ 47.)   Moving  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third cause of action fails because it is  redundant of his second cause of action for breach of contract and therefore  superfluous. (Dem. 8:14–28.) Plaintiff argues in opposition that he “specifically  alleges that Defendant’s conscious and deliberate acts, as outlined above, are  separate, different from, and beyond Plaintiff’s breach of contract  allegations.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:17–18.) The Court agrees and finds that the above  allegations pertain only to Plaintiff’s third cause of action.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to  support a cause of action for Breach of Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  Accordingly, the Court overrules Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s  third cause of action.   E.     Uncertainty   Generally  speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly  construed because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)  “Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently  apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for  uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)    In applying  the stringent standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that  Plaintiff’s complaint is not “so incomprehensible” that Moving Defendant cannot  respond, especially given the extensive analyses he has offered in attacking  the pleading. Even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, ambiguities  can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (A.J. Fistes Corp. v.  GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) Accordingly,  the demurrer is overruled on this basis.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled.  Moving Defendant is ordered to file and serve its answer to Plaintiff’s FAC  within 30 days of this hearing date.