 Case Number:  23CHCV00897    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO ADVANCE  HEARING DATE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV00897     Motion Filed: 9/6/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Aju  Philips and Rini Jose (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Daniel  Blumel (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: An order advancing the hearing date  for Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction, set for 11/28/23, to this  date, or to a date as early as the matter may be heard.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied. Plaintiff’s  evidentiary objections are sustained.   Defendants are reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended  General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing  documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set  forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly  bookmarking declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Moreover, “the document  must be text searchable when technologically feasible without impairment of the  document's image.” (CRC 2.256(b)(3).) Failure to comply with these requirements  in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters being placed off  calendar, matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance  with these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition  of sanctions.   BACKGROUND     On 9/6/23, Defendants filed the instant motion. On 9/15/23,  Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 9/21/23, Defendants filed their reply.         ANALYSIS   A.     Legal Authority   Defendants bring the instant motion  under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1335. (Defs.’ Mot. 2:1–2.) This rule  states that “a party seeking to advance, specially set, or reset a case for  trial must make this request by noticed motion or ex parte application under  the rules in chapter 4 of this division.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1335(a).)   As a preliminary matter, the Court  agrees with Plaintiff that this Court Rule unambiguously relates to a motion to  advance a case for trial and is silent as to a party’s right to bring a  motion to advance a hearing date for a motion for preliminary injunction.  (Pl.’s Opp. 5:9–12.) The Court notes that Defendants do not address this  argument in their reply. Notwithstanding this procedural deficiency, the Court  also denies the instant motion for the reasons set forth below.   B.      Reissuance of Building Permit   Defendants argue that the hearing should  be advanced because the City of Santa Clarita (the “City”) has since reissued  an amended building permit to Defendants, allowing for the construction of an  ADU encompassing the entire accessory building. (Defs.’ Mot. 6:15–18.) “Based  thereon, Defendants contend that Plaintiff no longer has any need to conduct  depositions or investigations regarding any previous ADU as, even if there ever  had been a previous ADU on the property.” (Id. at 6:22–24.) Defendants  reason that “Plaintiff’s argument that the existence of a previous ADU has  become moot. Whether or not an ADU had previously existed in the structure  makes no difference. The entire structure has now been permitted as a single  ADU.” (Id. at 7:16–18.)   Plaintiff argues in opposition that  “none of this changes the fact that Defendants have an existing ADU on their  property which they concealed from the City, and the proposed ADU would be a  second ADU in violation of the applicable code sections.” (Pl.’s Opp. 2:24–27.)  “Defendants assert without citation to any legal authority that the modified  plans and permit for the proposed ADU moots Plaintiff’s argument that an ADU  already exists on Defendants’ property.” (Id. at 8:3–5.) The Court agrees  and declines to decide at this stage that the reissuance of a building permit  for a proposed ADU effectively moots Plaintiff’s need for additional discovery.     The Court acknowledges Defendants’  assertion that they “have been delayed in their project to their cost and  damage, and to make them wait months more to complete their project, for now no  good reason, is not reasonable.” (Defs.’ Mot. 6:28–7:2.) Nevertheless, absent  any legal authority that the issuance of a building permit for an ADU  effectively moots the need to investigate whether an illegal ADU previously  existed in the same building, there is no basis to advance the hearing date on  this ground. Accordingly, the motion is denied on this basis.       C.     Equitable Estoppel   Here, Plaintiff cites to principles  of equitable estoppel to argue that “the Court should not allow Defendants to  unwind a stipulation that they asked for and Plaintiff relied upon.” (Pl.’s  Opp. 1:11–12.) “Defendants now bring the instant Motion in an effort to prevent  Plaintiff from conducting the Court-authorized discovery that would prove that  this permit, like the one before it, was issued based on Defendants’  concealments and misrepresentations to the City.” (Id. at 2:19–21.)   “Whenever a party has, by his own  statement or conduct, intentionally and deliberately led another to believe a  particular thing true and to act upon such belief, he is not, in any litigation  arising out of such statement or conduct, permitted to contradict it.” (Evid.  Code § 623.) “The doctrine  [of equitable estoppel] … operates to prevent one from taking an unfair  advantage of another but not to give an unfair advantage to one seeking to  invoke the doctrine.” (Peskin v. Phinney (1960) 182 Cal.App.2d 632, 636.)   Here, Plaintiff argues that not only did Defendants request  the continuance of the relevant deposition and hearing dates, but “Defendants  ‘induced’ the Plaintiff into believing that the hearing date on the Application  would go forward on the stipulated date of November 28, 2023, following the  completion of depositions and supplemental briefing.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:19–21.) “Now  that they have benefited from the continuance of the hearing date on the  Application that they requested, they seek to completely change course and ask  this Court to now advance the hearing date. Defendants are taking unfair  advantage of the additional time allowed to them by the Stipulation to first  seek a revised permit, then cancel the deposition of Defendant Aju Philips, and  now to advance the hearing date on the Application.” (Id. at 7:11–15.)   The Court agrees, and notes that  Defendants do not address this issue on reply. Instead, Defendants assert that  Plaintiff is “completely confused as to what is being built.” (Defs.’ Reply  2:19.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants are estopped  from bringing the instant motion to advance the stipulated 11/28/23 hearing  date. Accordingly, the motion is denied on this basis.   CONCLUSION    The motion is denied.  