  Case Number:  22VECV01938    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Creekside Shops,
  LLC,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Hasan Group, LLC
  d/b/a Currying Flavors, et al.
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
   22VECV01938                    107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Writ of Attachment
 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I. BACKGROUND
On January 17, 2017, the
predecessor in interest to plaintiff Creekside Shops, LLC (“Plaintiff”) entered
a lease agreement (the “Lease”) with defendants James O. Carter (“Carter”) and
Richard Adams (“Adams”) for the lease of a certain commercial real property
(the “Premises”). On December 17, 2018, Carter and Adams assigned the Lease to
defendant Hasan Group, LLC (“Hasan Group”). On January 9, 2019, defendants Zia
Hasan (“Zia”) and Shahana Hasan (“Shahana” and, together with Zia, the
“Opposing Parties” and Opposing Parties, together with Carter and Adams,
“Defendants”) executed a guaranty (the “Guaranty”) of the Lease.
 
In April 2020, Hasan Group stopped
making rental payments due under the Lease. Plaintiff filed an unlawful
detainer action against Hasan Group and Hasan Group surrendered possession of
the Premises to Plaintiff in November 2020. 
 
On November 9, 2022, Plaintiff
initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes
of action for (1) breach of lease and (2) breach of guaranty.
 
On April 5, 2024, this court
granted in part Plaintiff’s ex parte application for issuance of writs of
attachment and right to attach orders against Opposing Parties or, in the
alternative, for temporary protective orders by issuing temporary protective orders,
which ordered Opposing Parties to not dispose of the proceeds of any sale of
real property.
 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant application for a right to attach order and an order for the
issuance of a writ of attachment (the “Application”). Hasan Group and Opposing
Parties opposed the Application on April 19, 2024, Plaintiff replied to their
opposition on April 29, 2019, and Opposing Parties filed a sur-reply on May 3,
2024.
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks a right to attach
order and writ of attachment in the amount of $496,666.43 against Opposing Parties
on all interests in and monies received from the sale of a certain real
property.
 
“Attachment is an ancillary or
provisional remedy to aid the collection of a money demand by seizure of
property in advance of trial or judgment as security for satisfaction of a
judgment for the attaching party.” (Park v. NMSI, Inc. (2023)
96 Cal.App.5th 346, 353, quoting Burke v. Superior Court (1969) 71
Cal.2d 276, 279, fn. 3.) 
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint
or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for
a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for
the order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 484.010.) 
   
A court shall consider the showing
made by the parties, as well as the pleadings and other papers in the record.
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090(a), (d).) A court shall issue a right to attach
order if it finds all of the following:
 
(1) the claim upon which the
attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued,
 
(2) the plaintiff has established
the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based,
 
(3) the attachment is not sought
for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based, and
 
(4) the amount to be secured by the
attachment is greater than zero. 
             
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090,
subds. (a)(1)–(a)(4).)  
  
“The Attachment Law statutes are
subject to strict construction….” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997) 57
Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.)  
 

Procedural Requirements

 
1.     Service of Notice
 
At the times prescribed by
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), the defendant
must be served with a copy of the summons and complaint, notice of application
and hearing, and a copy of the application and supporting affidavits. (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 484.040.) 
 
The service of notice requirement
has been met.
 
2.    
California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 484.020
 
The application for a right to
attach order and a writ of attachment shall be executed under oath and must
include (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure the
recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement of
the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the attachment
is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no information or
belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the action is
stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101, et
seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the writ of
attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that
such property is subject to attachment. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 484.020.) 
 
The Application, having been filed
on an approved Judicial Council form, contains the statements required by
California Code of Civil Procedure section 484.020, which therefore satisfies
those procedural requirements.
 

Attachability of Claim

 
To issue a right to attach order,
the court must find, inter alia, that “[t]he claim upon which the attachment is
based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 484.090, subd. (a)(1).) “Under the Attachment Law, whether or
not the defendant appears in opposition, the plaintiff has the burden of
proving [] that his claim is one upon which an attachment may be
issued.” (Bank of America v. Salinas Nissan, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d
260, 271.)
 
1.    
California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 483.010, Subdivision (a)
 
The court may only issue an
attachment in an action on a claim for money, based on a contract, totaling at
least $500.00 exclusive of costs, interests, and attorney fees. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff’s breach of contract
claims are based on the Lease and the Guaranty, both contracts, and total
$387,899.51 exclusive of costs, interest, and attorneys’ fees. Thus, these
requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure section 483.010, subdivision
(a) are met by the Application.
 
2.     Security for Claim
 
“An attachment may not be issued on
a claim which is secured by any interest in real property….” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 483.010, subd. (b).) 
 
The Lease, which is attached to the
Complaint, provides for the grant of a security interest in “all of Tenant's
fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, furnishings, and the proceeds
therefrom presently or hereafter owned by Tenant and located at the Premises
and all after-acquired property of the same class and description.” The
Guaranty does not provide for any security.
 
We find that the claims on which
Plaintiff seeks to have the attachment issued are not secured by any interest
in real property.
 
3.     “Trade, Business, or Profession”
 
When the defendant is a natural
person, “an attachment may be issued only on a claim which arises out of the
conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 483.010, subd. (c).) “[Those terms may be found to encompass
almost any activity engaged in for profit with frequency and continuity.” (Kadison,
Pfaelzer, Woodard, Quinn & Rossi v. Wilson (1987) 197 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)
In determining whether a guarantor is engaged in the “business” of the primary
obligor, a court must determine whether “the guarantee of the primary obligor's
debt sued upon is part and parcel of an activity which occupies the time,
attention and effort of the guarantor for the purpose of livelihood or profit
on a continuing basis.” (Nakasone v. Randall (1982) 129 Cal.App.3d 757,
764, quoting Advance Transformer Co. v. Superior Court (1974) 44
Cal.App.3d 127, 144.)
 
Opposing Parties are both natural
persons. (Application pp. 1, 4.) One of the claims upon which Plaintiff seeks
to have the attachment issued is for breach of the Lease, which is a “Shopping
Center Lease” and which restricts Defendants use of the Premises to only the
operation of a restaurant in Section 6.01(a). However, Opposing Parties are
only guarantors of the Lease or signed the assignment thereof in their capacity
as Hasan Group’s manager. The other claim upon which Plaintiff seeks to have
the attachment issued is for breach of the Guaranty, through which Opposing
Parties guaranteed Hasan Group’s performance under the Lease. We consequently
look for additional evidence that entering the Guaranty was “part and parcel”
of an activity Opposing Parties engaged in “for profit with frequency and
continuity.”
 
Plaintiff submits no evidence and
this court does not find evidence in the record to show that Opposing Parties
were frequently involved continuously in the operations of Hasan Group and in
Hasan Group’s undertaking of the shopping center lease or operations as a
business and restaurant. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden of
showing that its claims against Opposing Parties arises out of their conduct of
a trade, business, or profession. Therefore, Plaintiff has also failed to meet
its burden of showing that its claims upon which it seeks to have the
attachment issued are ones for which an attachment may be issued.
 
Because this court may not issue a
right to attach order without having first found that the claim upon which the
attachment is based is one for which an attachment may be issued, we do not
reach the probable validity of the claim, the purpose of the attachment, or the
amount to be secured. 
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES the
Application.
 
Dated:             May
9, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court