  Case Number:  23TRCV02642    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                        Monday, March 25, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jose
Juan Jr Estrada v. Torrance Memorial Medical Center, et al.  
23TRCV02642
1.      Torrance Memorial Medical Center’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Complaint   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Torrance Memorial Medical Center’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Complaint is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on August 11, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff went to Torrance Memorial
Medical Center to pick up a deceased body at the morgue. As the body was being
retrieved, the tray fell and struck Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges the following
cause of action: 1. Negligence.  
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 435.5.  (Decl. David
J. Ozeran.) 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendant’s notice of motion states
the following sought to be stricken: “1. Prayer, page 5, line 7, item no. 4
-The words "and reasonable attorney's fees."” (Notice of Motion, page
2, line 1.)  The motion is made on the
grounds that attorneys’ fees are not available in this action. 
          Plaintiff alleged a sole cause of
action for Negligence. Plaintiff has not identified a statutory or contractual
basis for the prayer for attorneys’ fees.
 
            Therefore, the motion to strike is
granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 
            