 Case Number:  23VECV02234    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02234 CALIFORNIA FAIR
PLAN ASSOCI... vs LED ELECTRIC
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Home Depot’s Demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
identified pleading defects and not to add new causes of action.  
Introduction 
Cross-Defendant Home Depot
U.S.A., Inc. (Home Depot) demurred to the Cross-Complaint (XC) filed by
Cross-Complainant LED Electric Wholesale, Inc. (LED).  The demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for indemnification, the second COA for contribution, the
third COA for apportionment of fault, the fourth COA for declaratory
relief.  
Discussion  
Home Depot argued that all COAs
failed to plead sufficient facts to support the COAs because the allegations
are conclusory and/or because there are no facts to link Home Depot to the
incident.  A liberal reading of the XC
showed that the allegations are conclusory because there are no facts to
present any wrongful conduct as to Home Depot. 
Without facts as to Home Depot’s wrongful conduct, or even any conduct,
there is insufficient fact pleading to show any nexus between Home Depot and
the fire damage.  LED argued that the XC
is sufficiently supported with fact pleading and cited to XC paragraphs 12-14
and 20-21.  However, the cited paragraphs
in the XC failed to plead any facts and devoid of how Home Depot is connected
to the fire damage, the services rendered to the air conditioning unit, or the
alleged defective components sold, purchased, or used in the repair of the air
conditioning unit.  The allegations in
the cited paragraphs are conclusory. 
Despite LED’s argument otherwise, the XC failed to allege sufficient
facts to plead any wrongful conduct on the part of Home Depot.  Home Depot’s demurrer arguments are
persuasive.
Although LED failed to present
any facts in the opposition to show how the pleading defect can be cured, the
Court grants leave to amend because this is the first opportunity for the Court
to review the XC.
The demurrer to the XC is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.