 Case Number:  23BBCV01087    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23BBCV01087
Hearing Date: 10/31/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: BETTINA HADDAD, as successor in interest
pursuant to Ca. Civil Code Section 377.30 to the rights and interests of ALEX
HADDAD, deceased v. FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION; WORTHE HANSON & WORTHE A
LAW CORPORATION; DOES 1-50 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING
DEMURRER]
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Federal Express Corporation (Defendant), moves this Court for an
order sustaining its demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint for Damages (TAC)
brought by Plaintiff.
Defendant
demurs to the TAC on the following grounds:
1. Plaintiff’s first, second and third causes of action against
FedEx are barred by the WCA’s exclusive remedy rule because plaintiff is
seeking damages arising out of a workplace injury; 
2. The first, second and third causes of action in the SAC fail to
state a valid cause of action, as follows: 
a. With respect to the first cause of action for declaratory
relief, Mr. Haddad was a stranger to the insurance policy for which plaintiff
seeks declaratory relief. As such, plaintiff can prove neither a proper subject
for declaratory relief nor an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions. Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872.

b. With respect to the second cause of action for breach of
contract, plaintiff’s claim fails as a matter of law because Mr. Haddad is not
alleged to be, and was not, a party to the contract, the provision plaintiff
alleges was breached does not appear in the attached insurance policy, and
plaintiff admits that the underinsured motorist (“UMBI”) policy was cancelled
by FedEx; 
c. With respect to the third cause of action for promissory
estoppel, plaintiff cannot prove the first element of promissory estoppel, the
existence of a clear and unambiguous promise. Lange v. TIG Ins. Co.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1179.
(Def. Mot. p. 2.)
“PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE this demurrer will
be and is based upon this notice of demurrer and demurrer, on the memorandum of
points and authorities in support of FedEx’s demurrer to plaintiff’s TAC,
Request for Judicial Notice in support thereof, and on the declaration of Erik
S. Faussner, and all associated exhibits, which are filed concurrently
herewith, on the papers and records on file herein, and on such oral and
documentary evidence as may be presented at the hearing.”
(Def. Mot. p. 2.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Alex Haddad,
filed the original complaint on 5/15/2023 against Federal Express Corporation
alleging six causes of action for: (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Breach of
Contract; (3) Fraudulent Misrepresentation; (4) Bad Faith Denial of Insurance
Claim; (5) Constructive Fraud; and (6) Promissory Estoppel.
On
6/16/2023, Plaintiff filed an FAC against Federal Express Corporation and
Protective Insurance Corporation dba Protective Insurance Company for: (1)
Declaratory Relief; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Bad Faith Denial of Insurance
Claim; (4) Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200 et seq; and
(5) Promissory Estoppel.
On
10/6/2023, the Court sustained Federal Express Corporation’s demurrer to the
third cause of action without leave to amend. The demurrer to the 1st,
2nd, 4th, and 5th causes of action were
sustained with leave to amend granted.
Plaintiff
filed the SAC on 11/8/2023 against Federal Express Corporation and Worthe,
Hanson & Worthe, a law corporation. The first three causes of action – (1) Declaratory
Relief, (2) Breach of Contract, and (3) Promissory Estoppel – were alleged
against both Defendants. The fourth cause of action for legal malpractice was alleged
only against Defendant Worthe, Hanson & Worthe.
On
5/17/2024, this Court heard the demurrer to the SAC. The Court sustained the
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action with leave to amend
granted.
On
7/30/2024, Plaintiff, Bettina Haddad, as successor in interest pursuant to Ca.
Civil Code Section 377.30 to the rights and interests of Alex Haddad, deceased,
filed a Third Amended Complaint (TAC) against Defendants, Federal Express
Corporation and Worthe Hanson & Worthe, a Law Corporation.
The
TAC alleges four causes of action – (1) Declaratory Relief, (2) Breach of
Contract, (3) Promissory Estoppel, and (4) Legal Malpractice. The first,
second, and third causes of action are alleged against all Defendants. The
fourth cause of action is alleged only against Worthe, Hanson & Worthe.
Former
Plaintiff in this action, Alex Haddad, passed away from cancer on May 20, 2024.
(TAC ¶ 1.) Alex Haddad passed away from cancer, and his death was not related
to the injuries suffered in the accident at issue in this action. (Id.) This
matter is brought by Plaintiff, Bettina Haddad as successor in interest to the
rights and interest of Alex Haddad pursuant to Civil Code § 377.30. (Id.)
Alex Haddad (Haddad) was an employee of and driver
for Defendant, Federal Express (FedEx). (TAC ¶ 3.) On September 19, 2018, while
working and driving Defendant’s truck in the course and scope of his
employment, Haddad was involved in an automobile accident in Burbank,
California. (TAC ¶ 3.) Haddad and Defendant FedEx were insured under an
insurance policy issued by Protective Insurance. (Id.)
The driver of the other vehicle, Allison Norris (Norris) filed a lawsuit
against Haddad and FedEx (Norris v. Haddad and
FedEx). (TAC ¶ 4.) Further, Haddad filed suit against
Norris on May 4, 2020 (Haddad v. Norris).
(TAC ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff alleges that in the Norris v. Haddad and FedEx lawsuit, FedEx
provided directly to Co-Defendant/present plaintiff Haddad a Declarations Page
from Protective Insurance Company with certain information redacted. (TAC ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff alleges that included in that Declarations Page and not redacted was
Uninsured & Underinsured Motorist coverage of $10,000,000.00 unless the
coverages have not been waived or rejected by the insured. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that said
Declarations Page also contains a $3,000,000.00 self-insured retention for UM
and UMBI insurance coverage for FedEx. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges that no declination of coverage of UM/UMBI
is contained in the policies and was never provided to Plaintiff until he
commenced his underinsured motorist action. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges that FedEx and Worthe, Hanson &
Worthe (attorney that represented FedEx and Haddad in Norris v. Haddad and
FedEx; Worthe Hanson & Worthe also a Defendant in this action) owed
Haddad a duty of full disclosure of all relevant information regarding his
claim against Norris in the Related/Consolidated case of Haddad v Norris.
(TAC ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that prior to resolution of either Norris v
Haddad and FedEx, and Haddad v Norris, Defendants FedEx and Worthe,
Hanson & Worthe were informed that Haddad was seeking Norris’ policy limits
of $1,250,000.00 in the Haddad v Norris matter and would then proceed
under the FedEx UMBI $10,000,000.00 coverage. (Id.)
Haddad alleges that he proceeded against Norris for
her policy limits based on the information provided to him by both Defendants FedEx
and Worthe, Hanson & Worthe. (TAC ¶ 10.) Haddad alleges he detrimentally
relied on the information provided by both defendants and the coverage information
contained in the Declarations Page of Protective Insurance in his pursuit of
the Norris policy limits, when, as set forth below, he could have proceeded
against Norris in the third party case for more than the policy limits, and the
insurance company for Norris would have had to pay any judgment, settlement, or
verdict. (Id.)
Plaintiff Hadad alleges that Co-Defendants FedEx
and Worthe, Hanson & Worthe knowingly withheld the declination of
Uninsured/Underinsured Motorist coverage from Plaintiff, knowing he was relying
on said coverage in his pursuit of the Norris policy limits and not additional
sums from Norris or their carrier for sums over the policy limits. (TAC ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants, and each of
them, knowing the position of Haddad, and knowing of the declination of UM/UMBI
coverage by FedEx under said policy prior to the resolution of either one of
the cases of Norris v Haddad
and FedEx, and Haddad v Norris, had a duty to
inform Haddad of said declination of coverage prior to the dismissal of the Norris v Haddad and FedEx and the Haddad v Norris litigation. (TAC ¶
10.)
Haddad alleges he was in contractual privity with
Defendant FedEx as to the Protective Insurance Company insurance policy, as
said policy covered both Defendant FedEx and Plaintiff/Employee of FedEx
Haddad. (TAC ¶ 11.) Haddad alleges that Defendant FedEx’s failure to provide
the correct policy information to Plaintiff Haddad when they knew Plaintiff
would be seeking underinsured motorist benefits under the Protective Insurance
Company FedEx policy constituted a breach of contract between employer
(Defendant FedEx) and employee (Plaintiff Haddad). (Id.)
Further, Plaintiff alleges:
The parties in the underlying Related
Actions of Norris v Haddad and FedEx
and Haddad v Norris
participated in intercompany arbitration, which concluded with a finding that
Norris was 80% at fault and Haddad 20% at fault. Written discovery was
conducted, four depositions were taken, and thereafter Defendants FEDEX and
ALEX HADDAD settled with Norris for $80,000.00 on or about November 1, 2021.
The action of Haddad v Norris was thereafter settled for the Norris policy
limits of $1,250,000.00 on or about June 28, 2022. At no time prior to November
1, 2022, was ALEX HADDAD informed that Defendant FEDEX declined uninsured motorist/underinsured
motorist coverage prior to October 1, 2017 under the Protective Insurance
policy issued October 1, 2017. Instead, based on the documents provided both by
Protective Insurance Company (Exhibit A) and Defendant/Co-Defendant FEDEX
Plaintiff/Co-Defendant ALEX HADDAD was left with the written impression from
Defendant/Co-Defendant FEDEX that the Protective Insurance Company policy
contained valid and enforceable uninsured/underinsured motorist insurance
coverage covering Co-Defendant/Plaintiff ALEX HADDAD.
(TAC ¶ 18.)
Plaintiff alleges
that had he known there was no UMBI FedEx coverage, he would have pursued
Norris for damages above the policy limits of $1,250,000.00, as a CCP 998
Statutory offer for said policy limits had expired by operation of law. (TAC ¶
15.) Instead, having been provided by Defendants FedEx and Worthe, Hanson &
Worthe with the declarations page (Exhibits A and C) showing UM/UMBI coverage
of $10,000,000.00 with $3,000,000.00 self-insured retention, when other
portions of the declarations page not relevant to this litigation were redacted
by either or both FedEx and Worthe, Hanson & Worthe, Haddad agreed to
accept the Norris policy limits since he could pursue UMBI benefits against
Defendant FedEx according to the supplied declarations page. (Id.)
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: 
Defendant, Federal Express Corporation
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Bettina Haddad, as successor in interest to the rights of Alex Haddad
Moving Papers: Notice;
Memo; Request for Judicial Notice; Erik S. Faussner Declaration; Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition

Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Yes/No - Defendant served
the instant motion on Plaintiff via email. eCourt does not list an email
address for Plaintiff’s counsel; however, Plaintiff opposed the instant motion.
Therefore, it is clear that Plaintiff received this motion.
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  “The
parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
Defendant’s counsel met and conferred; however, a resolution was not able to be
met. (Faussner Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
Workers’ Compensation – Exclusive Remedy
Plaintiff,
Haddad, alleges he was an employee and driver for Defendant FedEx, and that
while working and driving FedEx’s truck in the course and scope of his
employment, he was involved in an automobile accident. (TAC ¶ 3.)
Further,
Plaintiff alleges there were two prior consolidated cases, one in which the
driver of the non-FedEx vehicle (Norris) sued Haddad and FedEx (Norris v.
Haddad and FedEx), and another in which Haddad sued Norris (Haddad v.
Norris.)
In
the instant action, Haddad is suing FedEx and the firm that represented FedEx
and Haddad when defending FedEx and Haddad in Norris v. FedEx and Haddad
– Worthe, Hanson & Worthe.
It
appears as if Plaintiff is arguing that at some point during the litigation of Norris
v. Haddad and FedEx and Haddad v. Norris, Defendants FedEx and
Worthe, Hanson and Worthe provided documents to Plaintiff that allegedly showed
 UM/UMBI coverage of $10,000,000 with
$3,000,000 self-insured retention. It appears that Plaintiff is alleging that if
he had known there was no UMBI FedEx coverage, he would have pursued Norris for
damages above the policy limits of $1,250,000. Plaintiff appears to be alleging
that he agreed to accept the policy limits of Norris because he was under the
impression he could pursue UMBI benefits against FedEx.
Here,
as the Court previously expressed in its 5/17/2024 Minute Order on the demurrer
ruling to the SAC, the Court is still entirely confused on Plaintiff’s basis
for recovery in the instant case.
Plaintiff
brings a breach-of-contract action on the theory that he would have pursued
Norris for more money in the Haddad v. Norris action had he not been
under the mistaken impression that he could pursue UMBI benefits against FedEx.
Plaintiff
alleges that the contract it is suing under in this action is the insurance
policy between FedEx and Protective Insurance Company, and that Plaintiff was
an employee and agent of FedEx.
It
is clear that Plaintiff’s argument is not that this alleged
contract is between Norris and Haddad, or that Haddad could recover from Norris
under the instant contract – i.e., Plaintiff is not arguing that the contract
at issue in this dispute was between Plaintiff and Norris, nor that this
contract provides a basis to recover via breach of contract against Norris. 
Instead,
Plaintiff seems to be arguing that he could have pursued Norris for more money
had he been aware that the alleged contract did not contain UMBI coverage. 
What
the Court still fails to understand is that if Plaintiff is arguing that he
should have pursued Norris for more money for the alleged injury Plaintiff
sustained in the course and scope of employment, how does Plaintiff’s current
attempt at seeking more money for the workplace injury, whether or not there
was UMBI coverage, not fall within the jurisdiction of workers’ compensation
[Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board (WCAB)]? Or to phrase it differently, it
still appears like Plaintiff is seeking to recover for damages from a workplace
injury.  
“Where
the conditions of compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the right to
recover compensation is, except as specifically provided in this section and
Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee or his or
her dependents against the employer. The fact that either the employee or the
employer also occupied another or dual capacity prior to, or at the time of,
the employee’s industrial injury shall not permit the employee or his or her
dependents to bring an action at law for damages against the employer.” (Labor
Code § 3602.)
“With
limited exceptions not pertinent here, workers' compensation is an employee's
exclusive remedy against the employer when the employee is injured while acting
within the course of his or her employment. (Lab.Code, §§
3600, 3601, 3602; further statutory references are to the Labor Code
unless otherwise specified.).” (Colombo v. State of California (1991) 3
Cal.App.4th 594, 596.)
It
appears as if Labor Code § 3602(b) lists exceptions:
An employee, or his or her dependents in the event of his or her
death, may bring an action at law for damages against the employer, as if this
division did not apply, in the following instances:
(1) Where the employee’s injury or death is proximately
caused by a willful physical assault by the employer.
(2) Where the employee’s injury is aggravated by the
employer’s fraudulent concealment of the existence of the injury and its
connection with the employment, in which case the employer’s liability shall be
limited to those damages proximately caused by the aggravation. The burden of
proof respecting apportionment of damages between the injury and any subsequent
aggravation thereof is upon the employer.
(3) Where the employee’s injury or death is proximately
caused by a defective product manufactured by the employer and sold, leased, or
otherwise transferred for valuable consideration to an independent third
person, and that product is thereafter provided for the employee’s use by a
third person.
(Labor
Code § 3602(b).)
Here,
Plaintiff’s TAC does not allege any exceptions, nor do the facts alleged in the
TAC fall under any of the exceptions.
Plaintiff
attempts to argue that the Workers’ Compensation Act does not bar Haddad’s
claims, as they arise not from a workplace injury, but from FedEx’s failure to
properly handle Haddad’s claims against Norris arising out of the instant
vehicle accident. (See Oppo. p. 7.)
The
Court fails to understand Plaintiff’s argument because Plaintiff is arguing
that these claims arise from FedEx’s failure to properly handle Haddad’s claims
against Norris; however, FedEx was not a party to the lawsuit in Haddad v.
Norris. Therefore, the Court fails to see how FedEx has any duty,
contractual or in tort, with respect to Haddad suing Norris. Further, with
respect to Norris v. Haddad and FedEx, that action involved Haddad as a
defendant. 
Or
to phrase it differently, if Plaintiff is alleging that FedEx failed to
properly handle claims with respect to the accident, this Court fails to see
how that does not fall directly within the statutory scheme for workers’
compensation when it is a workplace injury that occurred within the course and
scope of employment.
Plaintiff
regularly refers to UM/UMBI benefits, when the Court is entirely unclear what
UM/UMBI benefits even has to do with this action when Plaintiff is seeking
recovery from injuries sustained in the course and scope of employment. 
Under
the Court’s reading of the TAC, it appears that Plaintiff is attempting to
avoid the exclusive remedy of workers’ compensation by trying to frame a
workplace injury as a breach of contract, declaratory relief, and promissory
estoppel cause of action. 
Further,
under the cases that Plaintiff cites in Opposition, the Court fails to see how
they are relevant here. 
Plaintiff
cites Vacanti v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2001) 24 Cal.4th 800; however, that
case did not involve any of the causes of action in the instant case, and that
case did not involve suing the employer like Plaintiff is attempting to do
here.
Plaintiff
also cites Nathanson v. Hertz Corp. (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 78;
however, that case also did not involve any of the causes of action in the
instant case, nor did it deal with injuries sustained in the employment
context.
Plaintiff also cites to Bodenhamer v. Superior
Court (1986) 178 Cal. App.3d 180; however, that case also does not involve
the instant causes of action, nor in that case are the insureds suing the
employer.
Plaintiff also cites to Edward Carey Construction
Co. v. State Compensation Ins. Fund (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 657 (Edward
Carey); however, the Court also fails to see how that case is applicable. In
that case, not only was it the employer filing an action against the workers’
compensation insurer for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, but that case was based off of the insurer
allegedly wrongfully denying a valid workers’ compensation insurance policy. 
Here, Plaintiff is alleging that Defendant had a
contractual duty to provide insurance coverage under the UMBI insurance policy
for the injuries that Plaintiff sustained in the course and scope of employment.
The citation to Edward Carey seems to directly undercut Plaintiff’s
entire premise of bringing this lawsuit because Plaintiff is arguing that this
case has nothing to do with the workers’ compensation context and instead deals
with a breach of contract with respect to UMBI coverage.
Therefore, Plaintiff’s attempt to simultaneously rely
on Edward Carey (a case involving denial of workers’ compensation
benefits), while Plaintiff also tries to argue that this case has nothing to do
with workers’ compensation (and instead deals with breach on contract/UMBI) seems
to be a direct contradiction.
Plaintiff appears to be attempting to avoid the
exclusive jurisdiction of the Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board (WCAB) by
framing a work-related injury as a breach of contract cause of action.
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant, FedEx’s,
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action in the TAC are SUSTAINED.
The Court will hear argument as to leave to amend.
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s unopposed request for
judicial notice of Exhibits 1-6.
 