  Case Number:  20STCV22026    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  57  
 
 
 
Michael Mann (“Mann”) and
Marilyn Craig (“Craig”) (collectively, “the Plaintiffs”) sued Farmers Insurance
Exchange; Fire Insurance Exchange; Truck Insurance Exchange; Mid-Century
Insurance Company; Farmers New World Life Insurance Company (collectively, “Farmers”).  The Plaintiffs also sued Arnoldo Jaquez (“Jaquez”).  The Plaintiffs assert claims against Farmers
and Jaquez for age discrimination in violation of California’s Fair Employment
and Housing Act and claims for violation of wage and hour laws in California’s Labor
Code.  As alleged in the Plaintiffs’ complaint,
Mann was an insurance agent for Farmers; Craig worked for and assisted Mann in
his insurance business pursuant to a Customer Service Representative Agreement.
 Jaquez is a District Manager and
independent contractor for Farmers.  
 
Pending before the Court are
eight motions that Jaquez filed arising from multiple discovery disputes with
the Plaintiffs.  
 
Four of the motions initially
were scheduled to be heard on June 26, 2024, but were continued to today.  Those four motions are as follows:  Compel Craig to Provide Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set 2; Compel Mann to Provide Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set 2; Compel Craig to Provide Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set 2; and Compel Mann to Provide Further Responses
to Requests for Production of Documents Set 2. 
The Court’s detailed tentative rulings on those four motions are set
forth below.  The tentative rulings are
to grant all four motions.  
 
The other four motions on
calendar today are as follows:  Compel Craig
to Provide Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 2; Compel Mann to Provide
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 2; Compel Craig to Provide
Further Responses to Requests for Admissions; and Compel Mann to Provide
Further Responses to Requests for Admissions.   The Court’s tentative rulings are to deny all
four of those motions.  Unfortunately,
the Court bit of more than it could chew in scheduling all eight motions for
today, and thus the Court has been unable to provide in advance of today’s
hearing a detailed explanation of the basis of its rulings denying the other
four motions.  The Court is therefore
continuing those four motions to July 18, 2024 at 8:30.  Detailed tentative rulings on those four
motions will be provided prior to the July 18, 2024 hearing. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL CRAIG TO
PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO
 
At issue in this motion are Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, Numbers 76-94 (“SROGs”) directed at Craig.   The Court is granting the motion. 
 
Jaquez served the SROGs on Craig
on November 30, 2023.  On January 16,
2024, Craig served Jaquez with her responses to the SROGs. Craig’s responses consisted
entirely of objections to the SROGs.  The
objections posited, inter alia, that the SROGs sought irrelevant information,
were unduly burdensome particularly as to their temporal scope, and were vague and
ambiguous.  
  Counsel for Jaquez, Amanda
Garica (“Garcia”), and counsel for Plaintiffs, Nancy Anfanger (“Anfanger”), met
and conferred about the SROGS via telephone on January 26, 2024.  During this meeting, Anfanger explained the
basis of Craig’s objections and suggested that Garcia revise and redraft the
SROGs. Garcia agreed to take Craig’s objections under consideration
but did not agree to redraft the SROGs.  
On February 6, 2024, Garcia sent Anfanger a written meet and confer
letter (“the February 6 Letter”) that addressed some of Craig’s objections and
provided clarification in response to certain objections.  In particular, in the February 6 Letter, Garcia
narrowed the time frame of the SROGs to begin on May 1, 2016 and provided
further definitions of certain terms that were capitalized in the SROGS.  On March 4, 2024, Craig provided supplemental
responses to the SROGs.  Notwithstanding
the clarifications set forth in the February 6 Letter, Craig’s supplemental responses
maintained the objections that the temporal scope of the SROGs were unduly
burdensome and the use of certain capitalized terms was vague and ambiguous.   Craig also maintained her objections on
relevance grounds.  Jacquez filed the
instant motion the following day.  [To counsel -- there is no rhyme or reason to the blue font here -- it just came out this way when the tentative was posted.]


“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010.)  A motion to compel
further responses to interrogatories may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)
If a timely motion to compel further responses has
been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or
failure to fully answer. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221; see also Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th
245, 255.)  To the extent there is any
doubt on whether information should be discoverable, California’s liberal
approach to discovery provides that doubt should be resolved in favor of
permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.)
 
In the Court’s view, the SROGs seek information from
Craig that is relevant to her claims against Jaquez.  Craig’s relevance objections is unmerited.  So, too, are her objections that the SROGS
are burdensome due to their temporal scope and that they are vague and ambiguous
with respect to the use of capitalized terms. 
The February 6 Letter addressed those objections.  Yet, Craig maintained those objections in her
supplemental responses. 
 
Contrary to Craig’s contention in her opposition,
Jaquez did not ambush her through the motion.  From Jaquez’s perspective, the supplemental responses
Craig provided on March 4, 2024 revealed that the meet and confer process,
including the fruits of that process that were reflected in the February 6
Letter, had run its course. 
 
Also unavailing are the charges in Craig’s opposition
that Garcia had no authority to meet and confer on Jaquez’s behalf.   To be sure, Garcia did not respond to Anfanger’s
email to confirm that she (Garcia) had authority to make binding decisions
regarding the meet and confer process, there is nothing in the record to
suggest that Garcia lacked that authority.  Indeed, Garcia has appeared at multiple
hearings in this action and argued  on
behalf of Jaquez.  
 
Craig gets no traction either from her accusation that
Jaquez filed the motion for financial reasons -- that is, to obtain sanctions
against Craig and Anfanger.  The motion
is well-taken.  That Jaquez also seeks
sanctions against them through the motion is hardly nefarious.  Sanctions come with the discovery dispute territory
if a party’s objections to discovery lack substantial justification.  Here, Craig’s objections, and adherence to
the objections in her opposition, lack substantial justification.  Thus, sanctions against Craig and Anfanger
are warranted,  
 
As to the amount of the sanctions, Jaquez is seeking an
award of the attorney’s fees he incurred in connection with the motion.  That figure is $6,470.  In the Court’s view, the declaration submitted
in support of the sanctions request demonstrates that the hourly billing rates
of Jaquez’s attorneys who worked on the motion are reasonable and the number of
hours the attorneys worked on the motion  are reasonable as well.  
 
Craig must provide further
responses to the SROGs by August 5, 2024. The sanctions must be paid by October
31, 2024. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL MANN TO
PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO
 
The SROGs as to Mann are Numbers
76-98.  Mann’s objections tracked Craig’s.  The meet and confer process as to the SROGs Jaquez
propounded on Mann tracked the meet and confer process as to the SROGS Jaquez
propounded on Craig, including the back and forth that led to the February 6,
2024.    The motion as to Mann was filed the same day
as the motion as to Craig.  One
difference is that Mann’s supplemental responses were  served on Jaquez the day after the motion was
filed, whereas Craig’s supplemental responses were served the day before the
filing.  All told, the Court is granting
the substance of the motion as to Mann for the same reasons the Court granted
the substance of the motion as to Craig.  

 
As for sanctions, however, the
result for the Mann motion diverges from the result for the Craig motion.  Jaquez seeks the exact same amount of sanctions
with respect to the Mann motion as he did with respect to the Craig
motion.  In the Court’s view, the two
motions are virtually identical and thus there necessarily were redundancies in
the attorney’s work on the motions.  Accordingly,
the Court is reducing the amount of sanctions Jaquez requested with respect to
the Mann motion by ½, which comes out to $3,235.
 
Mann must provide further
responses to the SROGs by August 5, 2024. The sanctions must be paid by October
31, 2024. 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL CRAIG
AND MANN TO PROVIDE FURTHE RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
SET TWO 
 
The Court will address the two
motions to compel further responses to requests for production of documents (“RFPs”)
together as they are virtually identical. 
The Court is granting both motions. 

 
The Meet and Confer Process
 
The meet and confer process for
the two motions was as follows.
 
On November 30, 2023, Jaquez
served the RFPs on Craig and Mann. 
Jaquez granted Craig and Mann a two-week extension to respond to the
RFPs.  The responses were served on
Jaquez on January 16, 2024.  On February
7, 2024, Garcia emailed Anfanger to schedule a call to discuss the responses to
the RFPs. Counsel agreed telephonically to meet and confer regarding the RFPs
on Tuesday, February 13, 2024 at 3:00 PM.   On the morning of February 13 at 9:51 AM, Anfanger
emailed Garcia and cancelled the scheduled telephonic meet and confer due to a
disagreement between counsel regarding the terms of their oral agreements
concerning their discovery disputes. Anfanger, stated, “I will no longer meet
and confer with you telephonically, including today. Please provide a written
response regarding each of Plaintiff’s objections.” 
 
 On February 14, 2024, Garcia emailed Anfanger a
written meet and confer letter (“February 14 Letter”), which set forth Jaquez’s
position with respect to the RFPs and provided further clarification regarding
Plaintiff’s objections.  The
clarifications included, inter alia, narrowing the temporal scope of the RFPs. The
February 14 Letter also requested that Mann and Craig provide substantive and
code-compliant responses to the RFPs because their responses and objections to
date were deficient.  Garcia further
requested in the February 14 Letter that Mann and Craig provide confirmation of
their intent to supplement the responses by the close of business on Friday,
February 16, 2024.   Lastly, Garcia stated
in the February 14 Letter that, on behalf of Jaquez, she would be forced to
move for an order compelling further responses, as well as sanctions, in the
event Plaintiffs did not respond to the letter. Plaintiffs did not subsequently
respond to the February 14 Letter.  On
March 5, 2024, Jaquez filed the two motions to compel further responses to the
RFPs.  
 
On June 4, 2024, Anfanger
emailed Garcia, requesting that the motions be taken off calendar.  Garcia responded that Jaquez would welcome the
receipt of supplemental responses, but given the discovery history, the motions
would not be taken of calendar. Garcia also advised Anfanger to review the
requests and responses and any deficiencies therein, so any subsequent meet and
confer efforts could be expedited.  In
response, Anfanger stated she would be supplementing the requests for
production, but did not provide a date for that. 
 
On June 10, 2024, Mann and
Craig provided their supplemental responses to the RFPs. In an email that
night, Anfanger asked Garcia what time would work for Garcia to meet and confer
telephonically the next day.  On June 11,
2024, at 11:30 AM, Anfanger emailed Garcia again, stating “As I have not heard
back from you and it’s almost lunch time I am relying on your refusal to meet
and confer today.” Garcia responded to Anfanger by 12:00 PM that same day,
stating that she was in receipt of the supplemental responses, as well as the request
to meet and confer that day and would be available to meet and confer at 2:00
PM that same day.  Garcia also stated she
was available later in the week if 2:00 PM did not work. At 12:41 PM, Anfanger
responded and said, “I will meet and confer today at 2 PM, as you said you
would prior to today. As the oppositions are due tomorrow, later in the week
won’t work.”  Then, at 12:44 PM, Anfanger
emailed Garcia, asking if Garcia had the authority to make binding decisions
during the meet and confer call. At 1:14 PM, Anfanger emailed Garcia again,
(without having yet received a response), stating, “Please respond.” At 1:44
PM, Anfanger emailed Garcia yet again, stating “Your refusal to respond is duly
noted.”  
 
At 2:30 PM on June 11, 2024,
after counsel for Plaintiff and Defendant telephonically met and conferred,
Anfanger sent Garcia an email, declaring that Garcia had no authority to make
binding decisions regarding the discovery requests and corresponding motions.   Additionally,
Anfanger stated that Garcia’s motivation to file the instant motions was
financial, and that Garcia never answered Anfanger’s question over the phone,
requesting that Garcia explain the time frame chosen in the February 14 Letter.

 
At 2:53 PM, Garcia emailed
Anfanger back and informed her that because Anfanger served the supplemental
responses to the RFPs “late yesterday evening,” insufficient time was left to
review and meet and confer prior to Plaintiffs’ deadline to file their
oppositions to the motions. Garcia emphasized that, as mentioned during their
telephone call, Plaintiffs’ supplemental responses failed to take into account
the February 14 Letter written, which provided definitions and revised the
temporal scope in response to the Plaintiffs’ objections and initial responses.
 At 5:41 PM, Anfanger emailed Garcia
back, again accusing Garcia of not having the authority to make decisions about
discovery issues and that “[t]he entire undertaking was a complete fraud . . .
we have no duty to accept your definitions or terms. You don’t’ compromise
substantively or make them position neutral as I tried to get you to do.”  
 
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their oppositions to the motions.  On
June 18, 2024, Jaquez filed a reply brief, along with a reply to the Plaintiffs
separate statements and a  supplemental declaration
from Garcia. Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, and the Supplemental Declaration
of Amanda Garcia (“Garcia Supp. Decl.”). 
 On June 21, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed “Objection[s] to Defendant Jaquez’s Reply and Supporting Documents,”
objecting to “new matter, supplemental Declaration, and exhibits, and
supplemental Separate Statement”, requesting the Court not consider them.  In the Objections, Plaintiffs contend that
Jaquez had ample notice that Plaintiffs would be providing further responses
prior to filing the instant motions, but did not include such facts in the
motions, and that therefore the motions reflected an ambush by Jaquez.  
 
Analysis 
 
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought
based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(c).)  Such a motion must
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by
the inspection demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital
Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224, the Court of
Appeal defined “good cause” as a showing that there “a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove
or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or
disprove the fact.”   If the moving party has shown good cause for
the requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92,
98.) 
 
 
 
“The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §
2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party’s subjective
intent to create burden, or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
actually respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  However, where discovery is obviously
overbroad on its face, no such evidence is necessary. (Obregon v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 

 
In the Court’s view, Jaquez
demonstrated good cause for the RFPs.   The
Plaintiffs’ objection on relevance grounds are unmerited.  Their objections that the RFPs are unduly burdensome
because the temporal scope is too wide and vague and ambiguous because of the definitions
of certain terms are unmerited as well in light of the clarifications Jaquez
made in the February 14 Letter to address those concerns.  The supplemental responses maintain the same objections,
notwithstanding the February 14 Letter.  
 
The Court finds that it was appropriate
for Jaquez to submit a supplemental declaration and reply to Plaintiffs’
separate statement.  That submission presented
Jaquez’s argument as to why the supplemental responses, filed after the motions
were filed, were deficient and failed to account for the February 14 Letter.   The Court also rejects the idea that the
motions reflected an ambush of the Plaintiffs. 
Anfanger informed Garcia in mid-February that supplemental responses
would be forthcoming.  But the supplemental
responses were not filed until June.  Jaquez did not jump the gun by filing the motions
on March 5. 
 
The notion that the
Plaintiffs did not have to accept the clarifications in the February 14 Letter
due to Garcia’s asserted lack of authority to bind Jaquez is misplaced.  Again, Garcia has represented Jaquez at
multiple hearings. There is nothing in the record to suggest that Garcia could
not bind Jaquez to agreements Garcia made in the meet and confer process. 
 
The Court also notes
inconsistency in Anfanger’s approach to meeting and conferring telephonically.  On February 13, 2024, Anfanger told Garcia that
she (Anfanger) would refuse to meet with Garcia telephonically – everything had
to be writing.  Four months later,
however, on June 10, 2024, Anfanger demanded that Garcia meet with her telephonically
the next day. 
Plaintiffs must provide
further responses to the RFPs by August 5, 2024. 
  Sanctions
 
Jaquez seeks the same amount
of sanctions, $6,470, in both motions, for a total of nearly $13,000.  The Court notes that $6,470 is the amount
that, as noted above, Jaquez sought for both motions seeking to compel further
responses to the SROGs.  Sanctions are
warranted here because the Plaintiffs’ position as to the RFPs lacked
substantial justification.  But the Court
finds that the amount of sanctions that Jaquez is seeking as to both motions is
a bit excessive.  The Court is awarding
$3,225 apiece for both motions.   The sanctions
must be paid by October 31, 2024. 