 Case Number:  23GDCV00027    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:    5 Date:        3/29/2024 Case No:    23 GDCV00027 Trial Date:  None Set  Case Name:  Mendoza v. Transtar Insurance Brokers Inc., et al.  MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONSMoving Party:  Defendant Mohave Transportation Insurance Company       Responding Party: Plaintiff Angela Mendoza (No Opposition)     RELIEF REQUESTED:Order imposing terminating sanctions dismissing plaintiff’s action against defendant  In the alternative, impose issue and evidentiary sanctions   FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Angela Mendoza brings this action against defendants Mohave Transportation Insurance Company and Joseph Samaha for damages plaintiff alleges plaintiff suffered arising from a motor vehicle cause of action. The operative complaint, the First Amended Complaint, is a form complaint which attaches no cause of action forms.  The initial complaint alleges that defendant Samaha negligently operated a motor vehicle in January of 2022 on Interstate 5 in Glendale, while Samaha was employed by defendant Hero Transport LLC.The file shows that on October 13, 2023, the court heard four discovery motions filed by defendant Mohave Transportation Insurance Company, to compel plaintiff to respond to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents and to deem Requests for Admissions admitted.  The unopposed motions were granted, and monetary sanctions were awarded in favor of moving defendant and against plaintiff in the sum of $941.65 for the motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories, and $831.65 for each of the other three motions, payable within thirty days.    Plaintiff, in pro per, appeared at the hearing, and notice was waived. On February 26, 2024, after this motion was filed, plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney, substituting for plaintiff representing self the Law Office of Cierra ESQ.   There has been no timely opposition filed to this motion.  DISCOVERY AT ISSUE: Form Interrogatories:  General background information, insurance, injuries, damages, investigation, statutory or regulatory violations, denials and affirmative defenses, how the incident occurred—motor vehicle, responses to requests for admissions. Special Interrogatories:  Requesting details regarding the alleged incident, and facts, witnesses, and documents supporting plaintiff’s causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence, and supporting contentions that defendant was negligent and was substantial factor in causing the incident, facts concerning insurance carrier claims, and facts, witnesses and documents supporting various items of damages.     Requests for Production: Seeking medical records and bills, documents describing present complaints, expenses incurred, medical records before the incident wherein plaintiff injured same parts of body, documents concerning incident, statements by defendant, accident reports, investigatory reports, correspondence, complaints, photographs, drawing, diagrams, insurance policies, previous lawsuits, workers’ compensation applications and records, documents supporting various contentions and damages, applications for health benefits, documents identified in responses to form interrogatories.Requests for Admissions:  Admitting defendant Samaha was not negligent, plaintiff was negligent and caused the accident, plaintiff did not sustain personal injuries, or miss work, plaintiff has no facts supporting claims for various damages, and that plaintiff reported the incident to plaintiff’s automobile insurance carrier, which performed an investigation, found plaintiff at fault for the incident, and paid for the damages caused by the incident to the vehicle driven by Samaha. ANALYSIS:Defendant Mohave Transportation Insurance Company seeks terminating sanctions, or, in the alternative, issue or evidentiary sanctions, against plaintiff Angela Mendoza, arguing that plaintiff failed to comply with the court’s previous orders that responses to discovery be served.  Under CCP § 2030.290 (c), if a party “fails to obey” a court order compelling responses to interrogatories, “the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010.”   A similar provision applies to a failure to obey a court order compelling responses to document demands.  CCP section 2031.300(c).Under section 2023.010, “misuse of the discovery process” includes “(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.”   Where there has been such conduct, under CCP section 2023.030 (d), the court may impose a terminating sanction by issuing an order “(1)...striking out the pleadings... of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.”   Under subdivision (b), the court may issue an issue or evidence sanction.     Where a court order has been disobeyed, the choice of sanction is within the court’s discretion and will only be set aside for abuse of discretion.  Sauer v. Superior Court (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 213, 228.  A trial court’s finding that noncompliance was willful will be upheld if supported by substantial evidence.  Id.  In general, courts should grant lesser sanctions first before granting terminating sanctions.  Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771.  The Second District in Deyo set out factors which may be relevant in deciding whether to impose sanctions and which sanction to impose:“In exercising this discretion, a variety of factors may be relevant, including, 1) the time which has elapsed since interrogatories were  served, 2) whether the party served was previously given a voluntary extension of time, 3) the number of interrogatories propounded, 4) whether the unanswered questions sought information which was difficult to obtain, 5) whether the answers supplied were evasive and incomplete, 6) the number of questions which remain unanswered, 7) whether the questions which remain unanswered are material to a particular claim or defense, 8) whether the answering party has acted in good faith, and with reasonable diligence, 9) the existence of prior orders compelling discovery and the answering party's response thereto, 10) whether the party was unable to comply with the previous order of the court, 11) whether an order allowing more time to answer would enable the answering party to supply the necessary information, and, 12) whether a sanction short of dismissal or default would be appropriate to the dereliction.”Deyo, at 796-797.The Second District in Deyo noted: “The penalty should be appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery. Where a motion to comp[el has previously been granted, the sanction should not operate in such a fashion as to put the prevailing party in a better position than he would have had if he had obtained the discovery sought and it had been completely favorable to his cause.” Deyo, at 793, citation omitted.    The purpose of the Discovery Act is to facilitate discovery with the view toward conducting trial on the merits: “One of the principal purposes of the Discovery Act...is to enable a party to obtain evidence in the control of his adversary in order to further the efficient, economical disposition of cases according to right and justice on the merits.”   Caryl Richards, Inc. v. Superior Court (1961, 2nd Dist.) 188 Cal.App.2d 300, 303 (emphasis in the original).  Accordingly, Caryl Richards is often quoted in sanction opinions: “The sanctions the court may impose are such as are suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery, he seeks but the court may not impose sanctions which are designed not to accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.”  Caryl Richards, at 304, citations omitted; see, e.g. Motown Records Corp. v. Superior Court (1984, 2nd Dist.) 155 Cal.App.3d 482, 489.   Here, defendant indicates that after the motions to compel were granted on October 13, 2023, a notice of ruling was electronically served by defendant on plaintiff on October 17, 2023.   Defendant indicates that plaintiff provided information to defendant but did not provide Code-compliant responses to the subject discovery within the time required and did not pay the monetary sanctions within the time permitted.  Defendant argues that terminating sanctions are warranted.   Defendant’s showing concedes that plaintiff served on defendant various spreadsheets with information in support of her injuries, medical bills, and other damages, as well as billing statements from medical providers, and statements for insurance reimbursement on October 24, 2023, so within the time permitted by the court’s order.  [Decl., paras. 3, 6, Ex. B].  This posture is not a situation where plaintiff simply ignored the court’s order and took no action, but where improper responses were served, without following the Code and without verification, as required by the court’s previous order.  The responses are not entirely devoid of substantive information, and do not evidence a pattern of failing to respond to discovery sufficient to permit the court to conclude that plaintiff has no meritorious claim.  See Kahn v. Kahn (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 372, 382 (“A persistent refusal to comply with an order for production of evidence is tantamount to an admission that the disobedient party really has no meritorious claim...”).  There has not yet been such a persistent refusal to comply with the court’s orders.   The appropriate and proportionate method to accomplish the objects of discovery here is to deny the motion for terminating or issue or evidentiary sanctions, require the parties to meet and confer concerning the adequacy of the latest discovery responses provided, and, if necessary, for defendant to file a motion to compel further responses to the subject discovery.  If necessary, the court would then order the service of further verified responses pursuant to such a motion which fully comply with the Code and with the court’s previous order of October 13, 2023. This result appears particularly appropriate given that since the previous order was issued, the previous responses were served, and this motion was filed.  However, plaintiff has now retained counsel and is no longer self-represented.   The court will also order the payment of the previously awarded monetary sanctions, if still outstanding, along with further monetary sanctions, discussed below. Monetary SanctionsDefendant requests further monetary sanctions.  CCP § 2030.290(c) provides that for failure to obey a court order compelling responses to interrogatories, “In lieu of or in addition to” an issue, evidence or terminating sanction, “the court may impose a monetary sanctions under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010.”  A similar provision applies to the failure to obey a court order compelling responses to document demands.   CCP section 2031.300(c).As noted above, CCP § 2023.010 defines misuse of the discovery process to include “(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.”    Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under CCP section 2023.030 (a) the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.... If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   In this case, the court finds that plaintiff has failed to obey this court’s orders, which expressly ordered plaintiff to serve “verified” responses to the subject discovery, when the responses served were not verified.   Defendant has provided evidence that it has been forced to incur expense due to this conduct.   Plaintiff has failed to file timely written opposition to the motion, so has failed to meet plaintiff’s burden to establish that the failure to fully comply with the court’s order was substantially justified or that other circumstances would make imposition of the sanction unjust.  The sanctions accordingly are awarded for the expense of bringing this motion.  The sanctions sought are $2,020.  These amounts are not reasonable.  The sanctions awarded are reduced as follows:  5.0 hours for preparing the motion; 1.0 hour to attend the hearing remotely for a total of 6.0 hours at $220.00 per hour for total attorney fees of $1,320.00.  RULING:Defendant Mohave Transportation Insurance Company’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED IN PART. Motion for terminating, or alternatively issue or evidentiary sanctions is DENIED. The Court notes that the moving papers indicate that plaintiff timely served documentation in response to the subject discovery but did not serve Code compliant verified responses.  The Court orders that the parties meet and confer concerning the sufficiency of those responses.  The Court orders plaintiff Angela Mendoza to fully comply with this court’s October 13, 2023 order within ten days, including the service of further verified responses, and including the payment of the monetary sanctions awarded in connection with the underlying order.  Further monetary sanctions requested by plaintiff are GRANTED:Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,320.00 (6.0 hours @ $220/hour) [9 hours requested] plus costs for the filing fee of $60 [Amount Requested $2,040.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Mohave Transportation Insurance Company, and against plaintiff Angela Mendoza,  payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ § 2030.290(c), 2031.300 (c) 2023.010(g) and 2023.030(a).DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative.    