 Case Number:  24STLC02002    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  25 Hearing Date: Tuesday, September 10, 2024
Department 25, Commissioner Mkrtchyan
Motion to Set Aside Default
Moving Party: Defendant Soul Housing
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Gregory Johnson
 
RULING:       DEFENDANT SOUL
HOUSING’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT IS GRANTED; Request to set an OSC
Re: Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            DEFENDANT SOUL
HOUSING TO GIVE NOTICE.
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
            
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff and Landlord Gregory Johnson
(“Plaintiff”) filed the underlying breach of contract complaint against its
former tenant, Defendant Socially Oriented United Living, Inc. (“Defendant” or
“Soul Housing”) for a single cause of action alleging Defendant Soul Housing
breached the terms of their Lease Agreement when it failed to tender the full
the monthly rent for the Premises in January 2022. 
 
On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a CIV-100, requesting
entry of default and a POS alleging proof of substituted service. The POS
provides that service was made on May 21, 2024. That same day, the Court
entered default. 
 
On July
24, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Set Aside Default, along with
the Declarations of Defendant Soul Housing’s CEO, Roman Rozhansky; the former
president of Soul Housing, Yigal Keren; and Defendant’s Counsel, Alexander R.
Safyan. The instant motion contains an attached Proof of Service, stating
service was made on Plaintiff’s Counsel, Lane Nussbaum, via mail. 
 
On
September 3, 2024, Defendant filed Notice of Plaintiff’s Non-Opposition to the
instant motion. 
 
On
September 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed his tardy Opposition, stating the Opposition
was tardy because Defendant failed to serve the instant motion by electronic
means to the address identified for that purpose, thus, violating California
Rules of Court (“CRC”), Rule 2.251(c) (2). 
 
On
September 5, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply. 
 
MOVING PAPERS: 
 
Defendant
Soul Housing contends that the default should be set aside for three main
reasons and that the Court should accordingly award Defendant sanctions for the
costs of having to bring the instant motion. 
 
First, Plaintiff failed to timely serve the Complaint and
file a proof of service within the period requirement by Rule 3.110(b) of the
California Rules of Court (“CRC”). The lack of timeliness is apparent from the
Court record without reference to any extrinsic evidence, making the underlying
default void on its face under CCP § 473(d). 
 
Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to effect
proper service on Defendant, making the default void as a matter of law under §
474 (d). Despite Plaintiff purporting to serve Defendant Soul Housing (a
corporation) via substituted service, Plaintiff did not comply with the
statutory requirements of § 415.20. This is because Plaintiff’s process server
left copies of the summon and complaint with a “Maria Doe” at Soul Housing’s
former president’s residence which does not constitute valid service on Soul
Housing. Defendant asserts this is especially improper considering Defendant’s
business address and address for its designated service agent are publicly
available on the Secretary of State’s website.  
(Safyan Decl., ¶ 6, Exs. D.-E.) Thus, Plaintiff did not even attempt to
serve Soul Housing there or mail copies of the summons and complaint to its
actual office. (Mot., pg. 5.)
 
Third, Defense Counsel reached out to Plaintiff’s Counsel
on June 23, 2024, before Plaintiff requested entry of default, and offered to
accept service on Defendant Soul Housing’s behalf. (Id. at pg. 5, Safyan Decl.,
¶ 8, Exs. F-G.) However, Plaintiff’s Counsel did not timely respond; instead,
counsel filed the request for default nine days later without warning Defense
counsel, as he was ethically and legally required to. (Id.) Plaintiff’s Counsel
then responded to Defense Counsel’s email three days after filing the request
for default. (Id.) Yet, even at that point, Plaintiff’s Counsel did not notify
Defendant of the default entered on July 2, 2024. Defense Counsel Safyan claims
he did not learn default had been entered until July 9, 2024. Thus, not only is
the underlying default void on its face, but it should also be set aside on
equitable grounds and Defense Counsel’s improper conduct warrants sanctions.
 
In sum,
Defendant argues that the default is void on its face due to both (a)
Plaintiff’s untimely service; and (b) improper service. Lastly, (c) Defendant
argues Defense Counsel’s failure to warn Plaintiff’s Counsel that he was
imminently seeking default was a breach of both a legal and ethical duty as
prescribed by the court in LaSalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127.
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
On
Opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel argues that pursuant to Superior Court of Los
Angeles County, Local Rules, rule 3.4(a) requires—in general civil cases such
as the instant action—all documents must be electronically filed. (LASC Local
Rule 3.4(a).) Thus, Defendant’s failure to follow Local Rule 3.4(a) is the
cause of Plaintiff’s tardy opposition. 
 
The Court
notes this and accepts Plaintiff’s Opposition accordingly.
 
            Plaintiff further contends that §
474(d) provides that a motion for relief shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5(b). Thus, Plaintiff argues Defendant
possessed both actual notice and the ability to defend the action and, yet,
chose not to. Thus, Defendant took no action on his own behalf to protect his
interests and this request for the equivalent of a “do-over” must be denied in
its entirety. (Opp., pg. 5.)
 
REPLY
 
            In Reply, Defendant
asserts that it has served its Motion by U.S. mail and electronic mail to
Plaintiff’s counsel.  Furthermore,
Plaintiff’s Proof of Service of Summons reflects that service was attempted by
substituted service on “Maria, a competent member of the household, authorized
to accept service on behalf of Yigal Karen, agent for service of process for
Socially Oriented United Living, Inc. dba Soul Housing.” 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
California Code Civil Procedure § 473(d) provides:
 
(d) The court may, upon motion of
the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment
or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and
may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any
void judgment or order.
 
“Former landlord had knowledge of residential tenant's
address such that service by leaving
summons and complaint with a commercial mail receiving agency was not available
to landlord under statute providing for service
in lieu of personal delivery, in landlord's lawsuit alleging causes of action
for breach of lease agreement and negligence; landlord included tenant's
address on both a security deposit itemization form and a letter to tenant,
which were exhibits to his complaint, and such address also appeared on non-service report regarding attempted service on tenant by personal delivery.”
(Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 415.20(c).) (Kremerman v. White, 71
Cal. App. 5th 358, 286 Cal. Rptr. 3d 283 (2021).)
 
“Employee of commercial mail receiving agency failed to
send summons and complaint to tenant within five-day statutory time period, and
thus service was improper
in landlord's suit against tenant alleging causes of action for breach of lease
agreement and negligence; although employee stated in her declaration that she
received summons and complaint from process server and placed them in tenant's
mailbox on the same day, she further indicated that she did not send the
documents to tenant's home address until 20 days later.” Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code § 17538.5(d)(1); Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 415.20(c). (Kremerman v. White, 71 Cal. App. 5th 358, 286 Cal. Rptr. 3d 283 (2021).)
 
“Given that trial court lacked personal
jurisdiction over tenant due to improper service
of summons and complaint, court's denial of tenant's motion to vacate void default judgment was abuse of
discretion, in landlord's action alleging causes of action for breach of lease
agreement and negligence; tenant had no proper notice of action against her and
promptly moved to vacate default and default judgment when she learned of the
action through a third party.” (Kremerman v. White, 71
Cal. App. 5th 358, 286 Cal. Rptr. 3d 283 (2021).)
 
“[U]nder section 473, subdivision (d),
the court may set aside a default judgment [or order] which is valid on its
face, but void, as a matter of law, due to improper service.” (Kremerman,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 371.) 
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory
procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal
jurisdiction” over a defendant. (Id.) “[I]f a default judgment was
entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons as required by
statute, the judgment is void, as the court lacked jurisdiction in a
fundamental sense over the party and lacked authority to enter judgment.” (Id.
at p. 370, citing OC Interior Services, LLC v. Nationstar Mortgage, LLC (2017)
7 Cal.App.5th 1318, 1330- 1331.) 
 
“Whether the lack of jurisdiction
appears on the face of the judgment, or is shown by extrinsic evidence for a
judgment that appears valid on its face, in either case the judgment is for all
purposes a nullity—past, present and future.” (OC Interior Services, supra,
7 Cal.App.5th at p. 1331.) 
 
Section 415.20,
subdivision (a), describes how to serve a corporation with valid substituted
service, in lieu of personal service. (§ 415.20, subd. (a).) It requires, among
other things, leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office
hours in the corporation’s office or, if no physical address is known, at the
corporation’s usual mailing address. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff here did
not personally serve Soul Housing. (Rozhansky Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff purported
to serve Soul Housing via substituted service. (See Safyan Decl., Ex.
B.) However, Plaintiff did not leave a copy of the summons and complaint during
usual office hours in Soul Housing’s office or at Soul Housing’s usual mailing
address. Instead, Plaintiff’s process server performed service at a residence:
7227 Oakwood Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90036. (Id.) Soul Housing’s office
address is publicly available on the California Secretary of State’s website:
it is 3982 S. Figueroa Street, Suite 210, Los Angeles, CA 90037. (Safyan Decl.,
Exs. D & E.) Moreover, there is no indication that Plaintiff’s process
server ever attempted to serve Soul Housing at its office address. 
 
Plaintiff’s process
server apparently made several attempts to serve Soul Housing at 7227 Oakwood
Ave., but never attempted to serve Soul Housing at its actual business address
at 3982 S. Figueroa Street. The mailing that followed leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint also was not sent to Soul Housing. (See Safyan
Decl., Ex. B.). (Mot., pg. 12.) Moreover, the Oakwood address has no formal
connection to Soul Housing because it is the residence of Soul Housing’s former
president, Yigal Keren. (Keren Decl. ¶ 6; Mot., pgs. 11-12.) Further, the
Oakwood address is not listed on the Secretary of State’s website or on Soul
Housing’s Statement of Information. (See Safyan Decl., Exs. D & E.)
The proof of service states that copies of the summons and complaint were left
with a “Maria Doe,” a competent member of Keren’s household which does not cure
the fact that Keren is not the designated agent to receive service. (Mot., pg.
12.) Instead, the Secretary of State’s website indicates Rozhansky is.  (Rozhansky Decl. ¶ 4; Keren Decl. ¶ 3; Safyan
Decl., Ex. D.) 
 
Because service in
this case was improper, there was no personal jurisdiction over Soul Housing.
Accordingly, the default entered against Soul Housing is void and should be set
aside. (See Kremerman, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 371-74
[improper service on former tenant by landlord resulted in lack of jurisdiction
and rendered default judgment void]; County of San Diego v. Gorham (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1226-31 [confirming that improper service results in lack
of personal jurisdiction and makes the resulting default “void, not merely
voidable”].)
 
            The
Court finds Plaintiff has failed to establish proper service was effected on
Defendant because Plaintiff’s arguments raise many doubts as to the issue.
While Plaintiff raises many arguments as to why service on Defendant’s former
President, namely leaving the documents with a Maria Doe, could be considered
proper, Plaintiff fails to address two key important points. First, Defense
Counsel emailed Plaintiff and offered to accept service, and yet, Plaintiff’s
Counsel did not respond to this email until after default was entered.
Moreover, Plaintiff did not meaningfully respond to Defense Counsel’s offer to
accept service. Second, Defense Counsel overstretches legal authority to
purport service on Keren was proper by assuming the Maria Doe was Maria
Heifetz. This seems unnecessary given two valid means of service were provided
to Plaintiff: the first being through Counsel Safyan and the second through the
information publicly available on the State Secretary’s website. Thus, the
totality of the evidence weighs against finding there was proper service in
accordance with statutory law. Moreover, the law favors findings on the merit
and in this instance, Plaintiff went to great effort to ensure otherwise. Given
the instant facts and Court record evidence of deficiencies in service—both as
to its means and its timeliness—the Court finds personal jurisdiction over
Defendant was not established and that the default is invalid. 
            Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default, as Defendant
has demonstrated service was improper. 
 
 
C. REQUEST TO SET AN ORDER TO SHOW
CAUSE RE: SANCTIONS
 
In 2022, the
California Court of Appeals issued a decision that surrounded an unlawful
detainer action in Shapell Socal Rental Properties, LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc.
(2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 198. In Shapell, the court stated, at the very
beginning of its opinion: “An attorney has both an ethical and statutory
obligation to warn opposing counsel, if counsel’s identity is
known, of an intent to seek a default and to give counsel a reasonable
opportunity to file a responsive pleading.” (Id. at p. 203 (emphasis
added).) The Shapell court cited and built upon a 2019 decision, LaSalle
v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, which it said “confirmed that
obligation directly, unequivocally, and without qualification.” (Id.)
The LaSalle court had observed that it was “well-acknowledged that an
attorney has an ethical obligation to warn opposing counsel that the attorney
is about to take an adversary’s default.” Cal.App.5th at 135 (emphasis in
original).) 
            Here,
Defense Counsel sent an email to Plaintiff’s Counsel, offering to accept service.
Defense Counsel’s June 23, 2024 email exchange provides as follows:
Good
afternoon counsel, 
I
represent Socially Oriented United Living, Inc. dba Soul Housing. I understand
that your client, Gregory Johnson, has filed two related breach of contract
actions against Soul Housing relating to properties located at 1323 and 1325 W
61st Street in Los Angeles. My client contact just returned from military
service in Israel and was told by his wife that someone left copies of the
complaints at their house. I’m writing to advise you that this is not proper
service on Soul Housing; however, I have been authorized to accept service on
Soul Housing’s behalf via Notice and Acknowledgement of Receipt. 
Please
send me all of the filing documents along with executed NAR forms, and I will
sign and return the forms. 
Thank
you, Alex Safyan 
On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel replied as follows:
Your
client, Socially Oriented United Living, Inc., was on active military duty? 
That's
new. 
 
Sincerely,

Lane M. Nussbaum 
Nussbaum APC 
27489
Agoura Road Suite 102
Agoura Hills, California 91301 lnussbaum@nussbaumapc.com
Tel. 818.660.1919 - Fax. 818.864.3241 www.nussbaumapc.com

 
The Court refers
Plaintiff’s Counsel to Shapell Socal Rental Properties, LLC v. Chico’s FAS,
Inc. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 221. (“The obligation to advise opposing
counsel of an impending default is part of an attorney’s responsibility to the
court and the legal profession and takes precedent over the obligation to
represent the client effectively [Citations Omitted]”)
 
Accordingly, the
Motion to Set Aside is GRANTED. The Request to set an OSC Re: Sanctions
is DENIED.
 
Defendant Soul Housing to give
notice of ruling.