

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16,
2023, Plaintiff California Fair Plan (“CFP”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant Leonard Zuniga (“Zuniga”) and Does 1 to 20, inclusive, alleging
causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence. The
complaint arises from Defendant Zuniga negligently operating a Bobcat front
loader that collided with the property of CFP’s insured.   
 
On May
10, 2024, Zuniga filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
 
Also, on May 10, 2024, Zuniga filed a Cross-Complaint
against CFP. The cross-complaint is on a Form PLD-PI-002 and indicates that
Zuniga is asserting causes of action for: (1) negligence; and (2) declaratory
relief. (See Cross-Complaint at pp. 3-4.) 
 
On July 30, 2024, CFP filed and served the instant demurrer
to the cross-complaint. CFP demurs to the cross-complaint on the grounds that
the cross-complaint fails to state a cause of action and the cross-complaint is
uncertain. In limited jurisdiction cases, however, special demurrers are
not allowed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) The Court therefore OVERRULES
the demurrer of CFP to the cross-complaint on the grounds of uncertainty. 
 
Thus, the
Court’s analysis below will only address whether cross-complaint alleges
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against CFP. 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            CFP argues
that the cross-complaint does not state a cause of action for either negligence
or declaratory relief.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None filed
as of September 5, 2024.  
 
REPLY
 
            None filed
as of September 5, 2024.  
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement  
            Before
filing a demurrer, the moving party must meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading to
attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to the
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.) “Any determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or
sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
            The
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met. (Espinosa Decl.,
¶ 2.) The parties met and conferred via telephone but were unable to resolve
the issues raised in the demurrer. (Espinosa Decl., ¶ 4.) 
B.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. In assessing a
demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.  A complaint will
be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense.  Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50. “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349. A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.” Ibid. 
1.         Judicial Notice         
 
In the
memorandum of points and authorities, CFP references a request for judicial
notice. (See Demurrer at p. 3:26-28.) However, no request for judicial notice
was filed with the demurrer. A request for judicial notice “must be made by [a]
separate document . . . .” (Superior Court of California, County of Los
Angeles, Court Rules, Rule 3.8.) 
 
Here, CFP did not file a separate
document requesting judicial notice. Thus, the Court DENIES CFP’s request for
judicial notice as it is procedurally improper.  
 
2.         Negligence
Cause of Action  
 
“The elements of
a negligence cause of action are duty, breach, causation, and damages.” Coyle
v. Historic Mission Inn Corporation (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 627, 634.
“Whether a duty exists is a question of law for the courts.” Ibid. 
 
The Court finds
that the allegations of the cross-complaint are not set forth in the clearest
manner; however, from what the Court can ascertain, Zuniga alleges that CFP
insured property with defective and unpermitted grading. (Cross-Complaint at p.
4.) CFP failed to install a proper retaining wall which would have prevented
the parked Bobcat from sliding three feet into a fence and then “down deep
[over four feet] on Plaintiffs property, causing significant property damage to
[P]laintiff and [D]efendant[‘s] property.” (Cross-Complaint at p. 4.) Zuniga
alleges that he greeted the owner’s parents prior to the incident, and they
returned the greeting, but when they awoke after two hours of sleeping, they
found the Bobcat on their property. (Cross-Complaint at p. 4.) 
 
The Court finds that Zuniga has not
stated a cause of action for negligence against CFP as the cross-complaint does
not allege the elements of duty, breach, causation, or damages.
(Cross-Complaint at p. 4.) 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the
negligence cause of action is insufficiently alleged. The Court SUSTAINS the general
demurrer of CFP to the first cause of action for negligence with leave to amend.

 
3.         Declaratory Relief Cause of Action           
 
            To
state a cause of action for declaratory relief, “a party would have to
demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject
of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets
omitted. Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past
wrongs are involved.” Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation marks
omitted.
 
            Here,
Zuniga checks a box on the Form PLD-PI-002 indicating that he is alleging a
cause of action for declaratory relief. (Cross-Complaint at p. 3.) However,
Zuniga has not alleged any facts indicating that there is a proper subject of
declaratory relief at issue or that there is an actual controversy between the
parties. (Cross-Complaint at p. 4.) Without sufficiently clear allegations, the
Court cannot deem the declaratory relief cause of action as sufficient. Zuniga
has not alleged any of the elements required to state cause of action for
declaratory relief. 
 
            The
Court therefore SUSTAINS the general demurrer of CFP to the second cause of
action for declaratory relief with leave to amend. 

 
II.        Conclusion 
 
            Based on the foregoing, CFP’s demurrer for uncertainty as
to each cause of action in the cross-complaint is OVERRULED.  
 
            CFP’s demurrer to the negligence and
declaratory relief causes of action in the cross-complaint is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend. The Court does not find that there is no reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. 
 
            The Court recognizes that Zuniga is
self-represented; however, a self-represented litigant is still held to the
same standards as an attorney. Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 536, 543. If and when a First Amended Cross-Complaint is filed,
Zuniga is ordered to clearly label the causes of action and to set forth the
facts in a clear and comprehensible manner for the Court and the parties to
understand. 
 
Moving Party
is ordered to give notice.
            
 