 Case Number:  22STCV16084    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  B  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



ERBENT
   GEOBANY MARTINEZ; JOHN ARCADIO MARTINEZ RAMIREZ; STEPHANIE NINETH
  MARTINEZ ZEPEDA, individuals and successors-in-interest to the estate of Juan
  Jose Martinez, deceased,
                        Plaintiffs, 
            vs.
 
 
SAVAGE
   SERVICES CORP., a corporation; GASTON SCRANTION, an individual; and DOES 1
   to 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 22STCV16084
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE 
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  OCTOBER
   17, 2024
TIME:  8:30
   A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: MAY 16, 2022
TRIAL
  DATE: DECEMBER 9, 2024



 
I.      
BACKGROUND
 
On May 16, 2022, Plaintiffs
Erbent Geobany Martinez (“Erbent”), John Arcadio Martinez Ramirez (“John Arcadio”),
and Stephanie Martineth Nineth Martinez Zepeda (“Stephanie”)(collectively
“Plaintiffs”), individuals and successors-in-interest of the estate of Juan
Jose Martinez, deceased, filed a complaint against Defendants Savage Services
Corp. (“Savage”), Gaston Scranton, an individual (“Scranton”), and DOES 1 to
100 (collectively “Defendants”) alleging wrongful death as a result of motor
vehicle negligence. Plaintiffs allege that, on July 8, 2021, Defendants fatally
struck decedent, a pedestrian, while negligently operating a motor vehicle.
Plaintiffs seek damages as a result. 
On August 28, 2024,
Defendants filed the instant motion to bifurcate. 
On October 3, 2024,
Plaintiffs opposed the motion. 
On October 10, 2024,
Defendants filed their reply. 
A jury trial is set for
December 9, 2024. 
 
II.   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
            Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 598
provides in pertinent part that, “[t]he court may, when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and
hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof
shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof.” Similarly, CCP
§ 1048(b) provides in pertinent part that, “[t]he court, in furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action,
including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate
issue or of any number of causes of action or issues.”  
            The Court’s discretionary authority
to sever claims and try them separately may also be employed to avoid undue
prejudice to a party. (Stencel Aero Engineering Corp., v. Superior Court
(1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 988.) Courts have inherent power to regulate the order of
trial, and therefore can entertain a motion to bifurcate at any time—even
during the trial itself. (McLellan v. McLellan (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 343,
353.)  
            The discretion of the trial court to
bifurcate claims and try them separately is broad and will not be disturbed on
appeal, except for abuse. (National Electric Supply Co. v. Mt. Diablo
Unified School Dist. (1960) 187 Cal.App.2d 418; see Buran Equip. Co. v.
H & C Investment Co. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 338, 343-344 [commending the
trial court for bifurcating the trial and ordering a specific issue be tried
first, “since, if it had been correctly decided, trial would not have been
required of any other issues.”].) 
 
III.      
DISCUSSION
Defendants request
bifurcation of Plaintiffs’ claims for the liability phase of the trial from the
damages phase. Defendants argue that, due to the emotional nature of the
wrongful death claim, bifurcation is appropriate to avoid undue prejudice to
Defendants. Defendants also argue that bifurcation would not prejudice
Plaintiffs since trying the issue of liability will take a similar length of
time as it would if tried separately or jointly.
Plaintiffs argue that bifurcation
would unduly delay trial, as bifurcating liability and damages necessitates two
voir dires, two opening statements, two sets of jury instructions, and so on.
Further, Plaintiffs argue that bifurcating “will not shield the jury from
hearing about Decedent’s [alleged] damages,” thus making Defendants’ prejudice
argument moot. (Opp. p. 6:22-23.) 
The Court agrees with
Plaintiffs. This action involves one claim of wrongful death. The fact pattern
is not complex. Therefore, bifurcation would not likely result in judicial
economy or efficiency; quite the opposite if in a bi-furcated trial a jury
finds defendants liable. While Defendants note the number of witnesses at each
potential phase of trial as a reason for bifurcation, the Court responds that
bifurcation could result in some witnesses having to testify twice. Therefore,
for this single-issue action, bifurcation would unduly lengthen trial, trial
preparation by the parties and prejudice Plaintiffs.  The Court finds that the interests of justice
are not served in this instance by bifurcating the issue of liability from
damages. 
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
             Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate is DENIED.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
 
Dated: October 16,
2024                                 __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon. Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court
            