  Case Number:  20STCV02615    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Abramyan v. Drazan
20STCV02615
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Defendant’s Answer
Tentative
The motion is denied. 
Background
On January 21, 2020, Mary Abramyan
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Bhatti Drazan, Lilly of the Valley
Transportation, LLC (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50 for general
negligence and motor vehicle negligence arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on January 31, 2018 on Interstate 10 near Fairplex Drive in Pomona.
 
On April 9, 2020, Defendants
filed an answer.
 
On May 6, 2021, Defendants’ counsel
was relieved as attorney of record.
 
On June 28, 2023, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s first motion to strike based on Defendants’ failure to participate
in the litigation. 
 
On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this second motion to
strike Defendants’ answer. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section
436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time
in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to
strike must “appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)
Code of Civil Procedure
section 575.2, subdivision (a) provides:
“Local rules promulgated pursuant to Section
575.1 may provide that if any counsel, a party represented by counsel, or a
party if in pro se, fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof, the
court on motion of a party or on its own motion may strike out all or any part
of any pleading of that party, or, dismiss the action or proceeding or any part
thereof, or enter a judgment by default against that party, or impose other
penalties of a lesser nature as otherwise provided by law, and may order that party
or his or her counsel to pay to the moving party the reasonable expenses in
making the motion, including reasonable attorney fees . . .” 
“The PI Hub Courts have the discretion to
require any party or counsel of record who fails or refuses to comply with this
Standing Order to show cause why the court should not impose monetary,
evidentiary, and/or issue sanctions (including the entry of a default or the striking
of an answer) (Code of Civil Procedure, section 575.2).” (Eighth Amended
Standing Order § 12(d).)
 “Although
authorized to impose sanctions for violation of local rules [], courts
ordinarily should avoid treating a curable violation of local procedural rules
as the basis for crippling a litigant's ability to present his or her
case.”  (Elkins v. Superior Court
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1337, 1364 (superseded by statute on other grounds); see also
Kalivas v. Barry Controls Corp. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1161 [“An
order based upon a curable procedural defect (such as the failure to file a
separate statement), which effectively results in a judgment against a party,
is an abuse of discretion.”].) 
Discussion
Plaintiff
seeks to have Defendants’ answer stricken based on their failure to participate
in preparing joint trial documents and Final Status Conference documents.
Plaintiff
seeks to strike Defendants’ answer under, first, Code of Civil Procedure
sections 435 and 436. But Plaintiff does not state in what way Defendants’
answer is irrelevant, false, improper, or not drawn in conformity with the law.
Alternatively,
Plaintiff also seeks relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2, which
provides for sanctions under local rules, and the Eighth Standing Order,
section 12(d), which allows the court to set an Order to Show Cause for failure
to participate in the Final Status Conference. 
The
Court has reviewed the file and considered the evidence and argument presented
by Plaintiff.  On these facts, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has not shown good cause for the requested relied.  As the Court has previously ruled, “If
Plaintiff prepares for trial and appears, and if Defendants fail to appear for
trial (after receiving proper notice), then Plaintiff may be able to proceed
with an uncontested trial.” (Minute Order dated June 28, 2023.)  With our without the requested relief,
Plaintiff will still need to present proof to support her claimed damages.
Accordingly,
the Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendants’ answer is denied. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Mary Abramyan’s motion
to strike Defendants’ answer. 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice.