This is an employment action.  Plaintiff Marilyn Kaye now seeks a trial preference in this matter under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a).  Trial is currently set for August 25, 2025.Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a) states, “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”Here, Plaintiff is 78 years old and has a substantial interest in this matter as the only plaintiff.  Furthermore, Plaintiff adequately indicates that “I am concerned that my ability to competently testify and stand trial will be diminished should my trial proceed on its original scheduled date of August 25, 2025. 6. I have undergone multiple surgeries in the past two years, and may be required to undergo more surgeries in the future making my health such that I believe I will be prejudiced if my instant motion for preference is not granted. 7. In or around May 19, 2021, I was required to undergo invasive stent surgery based on having 80-90% blockage of my left anterior descending artery. My doctor explained I was lucky to be alive. I am still required to see a cardiologist every three to six months to track my arterial health based on my stent surgery.”  Based on the above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has established a right to a preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a).Defendant Buyers Edge Platform LLC has filed a “limited” opposition, stating: “Defendants do not oppose the Motion to the extent a trial date is not set before mid-January 2025, providing the Plaintiff with a trial more than six months earlier than the current trial date. Defendants would be prejudiced with an earlier trial date in that discovery is ongoing, and Defendants want sufficient time to assess, and possibly file, a dispositive motion.”In Reply, Plaintiff does not necessarily oppose the idea of a January 2025 trial, but contends that she cannot withdraw the motion without a concrete trial date offered by Defendant.  This matter will be further discussed at the Motion hearing.  If all parties stipulate to a trial date in January 2025, the Court will set that date for trial.  If not, the Court will grant the Motion, as discussed above (CCP § 36(a)), and set trial for October 4, 2024.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 