 Case Number:  22LBCV01086    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Martha Valdez filed her operative First Amended Complaint
against her daughter, Defendant, Martha Diaz, on 5/18/23.  The FAC arises out of Defendant’s alleged
fraudulent transfer of Plaintiff’s property to Defendant.  The FAC includes causes of action for quiet
title, declaratory and injunctive relief, intentional misrepresentation
(fraud), elder abuse, willful concealment, constructive fraud, negligence, and
breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
2.     Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
On 7/06/23, Defendant filed a
demurrer and motion to strike directed at the FAC.  The demurrer argues the FAC fails to state a
cause of action because it is barred by the statute of frauds and the statute
of limitations, because it contains contradictory allegations, and because the
various causes of action fail to state a cause of action.  Defendant also moves to strike myriad
allegations from the FAC for various reasons. 

 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
demurrer and motion to strike, details all of the allegations from her FAC,
states the standard for ruling on a demurrer or motion to strike, and concludes
the Court should overrule the demurrer and deny the motion to strike.  Plaintiff’s opposition fails entirely to
address the arguments made in the moving papers.  Plaintiff never addresses the statute of
frauds or the statute of limitations.  She
never addresses the argument that elder abuse cannot apply because she was not
over 65 at the time of the acts complained of in the FAC.  She never addresses the contention that her
allegations are inherently contradictory. 

 
The Court will not do Plaintiff’s
work for her.  The hearing on the demurrer
and motion to strike is continued to Tuesday, 11/21/23 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department S27.  Plaintiff, on statutory
time, must file a new opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike.  Plaintiff must dismiss any cause of action
she cannot support, and must address all arguments made in the demurrer and
motion to strike if she wishes her causes of action/allegations to survive the pleading
attack.  Defendant must file any reply on
statutory time as well.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
There is a CMC on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike today.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer, motion to strike, and CMC. 