  Case Number:  21LBCV00160    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Heather Szafranski filed
this action against Defendants, Michael Hollinghurst and his company, Network
Financial Service, for quiet title, fraud, cancellation of instruments,
rescission of contracts, and declaratory relief.  The crux of the complaint is that Plaintiff
signed a promissory note with Defendant, but believed the transaction was
canceled; Defendant, in violation of the parties’ agreement, filed the deed of
trust on the property.  
 
Plaintiff filed the complaint on
3/26/21.  The Clerk, at Plaintiff’s
request, entered Defendant’s default on 11/04/21.  On 11/17/21, after a default judgment
prove-up hearing, the Court issued judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendant.  The judgment makes clear that
Plaintiff owns the subject property and Defendants have no interest in the
subject property.  It also makes clear that
the promissory note upon which Defendants base their claim is null and
void.  The judgment provides, “Defendants
are to cancel the promissory note and Improper Deed of Trust (document number
8-0719664) and to deliver it to the Plaintiff or to the clerk of this Court for
cancellation.”
 
2.     Ex
Parte Application for Temporary Restraining Order
On 10/05/23, Plaintiff filed an ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order, seeking an order
restraining Defendant from taking any action with respect to the subject
property.  Plaintiff sought the order
because Defendant, in violation of the judgment, recorded a notice of default
on the property and commencing foreclosure proceedings.  
 
On 10/06/23, the Court set a hearing
on the requested preliminary injunction for 10/17/23.  
 
3.     Analysis
The Court has numerous procedural
concerns with the ex parte application for a temporary restraining order and
request for OSC re: preliminary injunction. 

 
First and foremost, TROs and preliminary
injunctions are issued pre-trial to maintain the status quo pending the outcome
of trial, at which time a permanent injunction can be issued.  In this case, there is already a judgment.  It is unclear how the “preliminary injunction,”
if issued, would work.  Would it remain
in place forever?  Plaintiff cites no authority
permitting the Court to impose a post-judgment preliminary injunction.
 
Second, the judgment in this case already
provides for the relief requested.  It declares
the deed of trust void and requires Defendant to cancel the note and deed of trust,
among other things.  If Defendant has not
complied with the terms of the judgment, Plaintiff can pursue post-judgment
remedies to ensure compliance.  Again,
Plaintiff has cited no authority for the position that a preliminary injunction
is among the forms of available relief.
 
Third, the 10/06/23 order required
Plaintiff to give notice.  There is no
notice of ruling in the file.  
 
The Court finds it is in the interest
of justice to have the temporary restraining order remain in place while
Plaintiff takes steps to enforce the default judgment.  
 
CCP §527 permits the Court to
impose a temporary restraining order for 22 days, and permits a continuance of
the hearing on the OSC re: preliminary injunction for an additional 15
days.  37 days after 10/06/23 falls on
Sunday, 11/12/23.  The Court is
continuing the OSC re: preliminary injunction to Thursday, 11/09/23 at 8:30
a.m. in Department S27.  The Court is
also setting an OSC re: resolving the temporary restraining order for the same
date and time.
 
If Plaintiff believes a preliminary
injunction is procedurally proper, she must provide authority in support of her
position at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date.  The Court notes that Defendants are in default,
which typically means they are not permitted to participate in court
proceedings.  However, because this is a
post-judgment proceeding, it is unclear if the rules precluding them from
participating in the matter apply.  The Court
will also permit Defendants to file a brief and any evidence in opposition to the
OSC at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date if they wish to do
so.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   