 Case Number:  22LBCV00049    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     22LBCV00049
On 2/01/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22LBCV00049 against Defendants, 1801-1899 Willow, LLC and Alma D. Barnes
for specific performance and related claims arising out of Defendants’ alleged
refusal to close escrow on Plaintiff’s purchase of a commercial property.
 
2.     22SMCV00217
On 2/16/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22SMCV00217 against Defendants, Escrow L.A., Inc. and Sharon L. Sharp for
breach of fiduciary duty and related claims arising out of Defendants’ refusal
to release the funds that were deposited into the escrow account in connection with
the transaction at issue in 22LBCV00049.
 
3.     Consolidation
On 12/08/22, the Court consolidated
the two above actions for all purposes.  
 
4.     Motion
to Order Deposit of Interpleaded Funds with the Clerk of the Court
a.    
Relief Sought
Escrow LA is holding $531,682.68 in
an escrow account relating to the transactions that form the basis of these
consolidated lawsuits.  It seeks an order
permitting it to deposit the funds with the Clerk of the Court.  It establishes it has no interest in the
funds, but cannot release the funds because the parties will not mutually agree
on instructions for distribution.  
 
b.     Law
Governing Relief Requested
CCP §386(b) provides:
(b) Any person, firm, corporation,
association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or
may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may give rise to double
or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants to compel them
to interplead and litigate their several claims.
When the person, firm, corporation,
association or other entity against whom such claims are made, or may be made,
is a defendant in an action brought upon one or more of such claims, it may
either file a verified cross–complaint in interpleader, admitting that it has
no interest in the money or property claimed, or in only a portion thereof, and
alleging that all or such portion is demanded by parties to such action, and
apply to the court upon notice to such parties for an order to deliver such
money or property or such portion thereof to such person as the court shall
direct; or may bring a separate action against the claimants to compel them to
interplead and litigate their several claims. The action of interpleader may be
maintained although the claims have not a common origin, are not identical but
are adverse to and independent of one another, or the claims are unliquidated
and no liability on the part of the party bringing the action or filing the
cross–complaint has arisen. The applicant or interpleading party may deny
liability in whole or in part to any or all of the claimants. The applicant or
interpleading party may join as a defendant in such action any other party
against whom claims are made by one or more of the claimants or such other
party may interplead by cross–complaint; provided, however, that such claims
arise out of the same transaction or occurrence.
 
CCP §386.5 provides:
Where the only relief sought
against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money
alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he
is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and
that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to
the action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order
discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.
 
CCP §386.6 provides:
(a) A party to an action who
follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his
motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of his
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the
discharge of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his
costs and reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been
deposited with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court
may make such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees
by one or more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.
 
c.     Analysis
Escrow LA made a prima facie showing
that it is entitled to interplead the funds pursuant to §386.5.  Any opposition to the motion was due on or
before 10/04/23.  To date, the Court has
not received timely opposition to the motion. 
The motion is therefore granted.  
 
d.    
Attorneys’ Fees
Escrow LA’s notice of motion is
silent concerning attorneys’ fees and costs. 
It indicates, at page 6, lines 14-27 of its points and authorities, that
it is seeking to recover attorneys’ fees and costs, but does not state any
amount.  The declaration of Escrow LA’s
attorney, Neil Popowitz, is silent concerning attorneys’ fees and costs.  The proposed order on the motion does not
include attorneys’ fees and costs.  To the
extent attorneys’ fees and costs are sought in connection with the motion, the
Court declines to award them, as Escrow LA has not given all parties to the
action adequate notice of the relief sought. 

 
Escrow LA is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.
 