 Case Number:  22LBCV00456    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Julio Sotelo filed this
action against Defendant, General Motors, LLC for violation of the Song-Beverly
Act.  
 
2.     7/25/23
Hearing on Motion to Compel Deposition
On 7/25/23, the Court heard and
granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to provide its PMQ for
deposition.  Specifically, the Court held:
The motion to compel Defendant to
produce a PMK is granted.  Counsel must
work together to agree on a mutually convenient date, time, and location for
the deposition to go forward.  
 
Because no party sought sanctions,
the Court did not impose sanctions.
3.     Motion
to Compel Compliance and for $500/Day Sanction
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff contends Defendant has
failed to produce its PMQ for deposition despite the court order that it must
do so.  She seeks an order (a) compelling
Defendant to comply with the 7/25/23 order, and (b) ordering Defendant to pay
$500/day in sanctions until it complies. 

 
Defendant, in opposition, contends it
has been attempting to secure dates for the PMQ deposition, and it is not in violation
of any court order because the 7/25/23 order did not contain a date before
which the deposition was required to go forward.  It notes that trial has been continued to
1/08/24, leaving ample time to complete the deposition.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends Defendant
has done nothing to meet and confer concerning dates for the deposition, and
the order clearly required the deposition to go forward before the
then-scheduled trial date of 9/18/23, which has passed.  
 
b.     Analysis
Plaintiff cites Lopez v. Watchtower
Bible & Tract Soc. of N.Y., Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 605
to support the position that the Court may impose prospective monetary
sanctions if a party remains in noncompliance with a discovery order.  Defendant cites no contrary authority.  Thus, the Court finds it has the authority
and ability to impose sanctions relating to an ongoing failure to provide its
PMQ for deposition.  
 
The Court would prefer not to
impose prospective sanctions.  Notably,
the 7/25/23 order did not contain a compliance date.  The Court is continuing the hearing on this
motion to Tuesday, 11/21/23 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The parties must meet and confer over the
next week to agree upon deposition scheduling details.  The deposition must go forward between today’s
hearing date and 11/14/23.  If the deposition
does not go forward prior to 11/14/23, each party must file a brief and
declarations no later than 11/14/23 detailing the parties’ meet and confer
efforts and why sanctions should or should not be imposed.    
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   