 Case Number:  22LBCV01066    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.            
Facts
Plaintiff, Mary Wilson filed this
action against Defendant, Rodger Wilson for damages arising out of a partnership
agreement the parties signed during the course of their divorce
proceedings.  The operative complaint is
the FAC, which was filed on 2/09/23.  It includes
causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, elder abuse, breach of contract,
conversion, unjust enrichment, accounting, constructive trust, and violation of
Penal Code §496(c).
 
2.            
Motion to Sever or Bifurcate
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendant moves to sever or bifurcate
the trial.  He contends his affirmative
defenses of statute of limitations, lack of subject matter jurisdiction, res
judicata, and collateral estoppel must all be tried to the Court, rather than
to the jury, and therefore the Court should try these issues first.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues Defendant has not clearly stated
what relief he seeks.  She contends the
factual issues, including evidence and witnesses, will overlap between her case
in chief and Defendant’s articulated affirmative defenses, such that bifurcation
is not in the interest of judicial economy. 
She contends there are factual issues relating to the legal defenses,
and those factual issues must be determined by the jury.  
 
In reply, Defendant asks the Court to
set a hearing date, in advance of the trial date, to decide the issues
presented by way of the affirmative defenses. 
He contends this will take less than a half day, and it is in the
interest of justice to have these issues heard first.  
 
b.    
Analysis
As Plaintiff correctly notes in opposition
to the motion, the moving papers lack any discussion or the various factors to
be considered by the Court when ruling on a motion to sever or bifurcate.  Defendant merely quotes CCP §§591, 597, 598,
and 1048, and then concludes the Court should bifurcate the subject affirmative
defenses.  
 
§591 does not provide for
bifurcation, but rather merely makes clear that issues of law must be tried by
the Court.  This does not mean, however,
that the issues must be bifurcated, or must be tried first.  Each of the remaining sections provides for
discretionary bifurcation.  The sections
then set forth the criteria to be used in determining whether to bifurcate the action
or not.  
 
In the absence of any meaningful
discussion of the factors that bode in favor of or against bifurcation or severance,
the motion is denied.  The Court notes
that, as Plaintiff explains in opposition to the motion, it appears the same
witnesses, facts, and evidence will be considered in connection with the affirmative
defenses as the main case, and therefore bifurcation is not in the interest of
justice.  
 
Additionally, the Court notes that
Defendant, in reply, asks for a “hearing” in advance of the trial date to consider
the affirmative defenses.  The Court
knows of no authority permitting it to hold a trial by “hearing,” or to set a hearing
date in advance of the currently scheduled trial date, which is 12/18/23.  
 
The motion is denied.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   