 Case Number:  23LBCV00319    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Jazikio Carter filed
this action against Defendant, Johnnie Miller on 2/27/23.  Plaintiff filed his operative First Amended
Complaint on 5/25/23.  The FAC includes a
sole cause of action for breach of contract. 
Plaintiff alleges he was renting an apartment from Defendant, and on
11/09/22, he called Defendant and informed him water had suddenly commenced
leaking from his ceiling.  Defendant
responded that he would have someone come out right away, but nobody came for 13
days, which resulted in damage to his clothing and furniture.  
 

Demurrer to FAC

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares she mailed
Plaintiff a letter detailing the deficiencies in the FAC.  The letter indicates Plaintiff’s FAC does not
cure the deficiencies in the complaint, the parties are at an impasse, and
Defendant will file a demurrer.  
 
This is not an attempt to meet and
confer.  It is not by telephone or in
person, as required by the Code.  It also
merely states that the FAC is deficient and subject to a demurrer, and does not
offer to meet and confer to discuss deficiencies or potential resolution of
those deficiencies.  
 
The Court understands that
Plaintiff is self-represented.  This does
not, however, change the obligations to meet and confer in good faith pursuant
to the Code.  
 
c.     Analysis
The Court is continuing the hearing
to require the parties to meet and confer in good faith, as will be detailed
below.  The Court offers the following guidance
to the parties to assist in their meet and confer efforts.
 
Defendant’s contention is that
Plaintiff has not alleged any details about the water leak, and has not alleged
which portion of the parties’ contract was breached.  Additionally, Defendant contends the parties’
lease requires Plaintiff to have insurance for his personal belongings, because
Defendant’s insurance does not cover Plaintiff’s possessions.
 
While Plaintiff’s complaint does
not allege details about the leak and also does not allege which provision of
the contract was breached, Plaintiff does highlight portions of the parties’
contract, which is attached as an exhibit to his FAC.  It appears Plaintiff is attempting to allege
that the highlighted portions of the contract are relevant and/or form the
basis of his allegation that Defendant breached the contract.  At ¶16 of the parties’ contract, which is highlighted
by Plaintiff, the contract states:
Damage to Premises.  If the demised premises, or any part thereof,
shall be partially damaged by fire or other casualty not due to Lessee’s
negligence or willful act or that of his employee, family, agent, or visitor,
the premises shall be promptly repaired by Lessor and there shall be an
abatement of rent corresponding with the time during which, and the extent
which, the leased premises may have been untenantable; but, if the lease
promises should be damaged other than by Lessee’s negligence or willful act or
that of his employee…to the extent that Lessor shall decide not to rebuild or
repair, the term of this lease shall end and the rent shall be prorated up to
the time of the damage.
 
Plaintiff clearly alleges a part of
his premises were damaged due to an act outside of his control.  Plaintiff also clearly alleges Defendant did not
repair the premises.  Plaintiff does not,
however, seek rent abatement or other relief consistent with this provision of
the contract.  If Plaintiff wishes to sue
based on the alleged breach of this provision of the lease, Plaintiff must seek
the damages contemplated by the lease agreement.
 
Defendant notes that the parties’
lease requires Plaintiff to carry personal property insurance and makes clear
Defendant’s insurance does not cover personal property.  It does not seem this would bar a claim for
negligence or breach of contract against Defendant if one were properly
stated.  Nothing in the provision
disclaims Defendant’s liability for his own negligence and/or breach of the
parties’ lease.  
 
The parties must meet and confer, with
the above guidance in mind, to determine whether Plaintiff can amend his FAC to
state a claim for breach of contract or any other cause of action.  Plaintiff is admonished that Defendant’s
attorney does not represent Plaintiff and need not assist Plaintiff in
determining the proper basis for his claims against Defendant.  Plaintiff is advised that he should retain an
attorney if he wishes to protect his interests in this litigation, as the Court
notes that Defendant has numerous motions on calendar in the near future in
this action, and rulings on those motions could seriously affect Plaintiff’s ability
to prosecute his action against Defendant if Plaintiff does not retain an
attorney to assist him.  
 
The hearing on the demurrer is continued
to 12/12/23, to be heard concurrently with Defendant’s scheduled discovery motions.  The parties must meet and confer by telephone
or in person within the next two weeks.  If
the parties are unable to agree concerning the filing of a Second Amended Complaint
to cure the FAC’s defects, they must each file briefs and declarations at least
two weeks prior to the continued hearing date. 
The declarations must detail their meet and confer efforts, and the
briefs must address the legal issues remaining in dispute between the parties.
 
Additionally, the Court advances
the 12/14/23 hearing on the motion to deem RFAs admitted to today’s date and
continues it to 12/12/23, to be heard concurrently with the other discovery
motions and the above-discussed demurrer.
 

CMC

The parties are reminded that there
is a Case Management Conference on calendar concurrently with the hearing on
the demurrer.  The Court asks the parties
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the
demurrer.  