 Case Number:  22LBCV00894    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Claire Stanford filed
this action against Defendants, The Palisades Association, Inc., Long Beach
Home Solutions, Inc., Boris Bogomolny, and Renee Bogomolny for damages arising
out of a fall down a staircase at her apartment complex.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
a.    
Parties’ Positions 
Plaintiff propounded SROGs on
Defendant, and Defendant served responses. 
On 8/25/23, Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet and confer letter addressing
the perceived deficiencies in Defendant’s responses.  The letter ended by demanding Defendant serve
supplemental responses by 8/31/23 or a motion to compel would be filed.  On 8/31/23, Defendant sent a responsive
letter asking to extend the deadline from 8/31/23 to 9/15/23.  Plaintiff responded, stating it would be
extended to 9/07/23.  On 9/14/23, she
filed this motion to compel further responses. 
She also seeks imposition of sanctions.
 
On 10/03/23, Defendant filed timely
opposition to the motion.  The opposition
contends the motion should be denied because (a) the notice was improper, (b)
the meet and confer efforts were insufficient, and (c) the responses are
sufficient.  Additionally, Defendant
contends sanctions are inappropriate.  
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 10/10/23.  The Court has not
received timely reply papers, and will not consider untimely papers.  
 
b.     Analysis
As an initial note, Defendant, with
the opposition papers, attaches a copy of its meet and confer correspondence,
dated 9/07/23, wherein it indicates it believes its responses to the SROGs at
issue are sufficient and need not be supplemented.  Despite the fact that Plaintiff did not file
this motion until 9/14/23, Plaintiff failed to attach this correspondence to
the moving papers.  
 
The Court presumes, in light of
Plaintiff’s failure to reply, that she concedes the responses are
sufficient.  Assuming the parties submit
on the tentative, the motion will be denied. 

 
If Plaintiff appears at the hearing
and indicates she does not concede the merits of the motion, the Court will continue
the hearing on the motion to require the parties to engage in meet and confer
efforts.  The Court finds mailing a
letter demanding further responses on or before a date certain is not an
attempt to meet and confer.  The Court
also finds Plaintiff should have responded to Defendant’s 9/07/23 correspondence
prior to filing the motion.  At a
minimum, Plaintiff should have attached the correspondence to the moving papers
for review.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   