  Case Number:  19STCV31864    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Daniel Fitzgerald dba ConTec Development,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV31864




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Deanna Edwards and Bijan Williams,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September
16, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(3) Motions to
Compel Responses to Discovery;
Motion to Deem
Requests for Admission Admitted
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Daniel Fitzgerald dba ConTec Development
Responding
Party: Defendant Deanna Edwards
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers and oppositions.
 
If a party fails to provide a timely
response to a request for admission, the party waives any objection to the
requests.  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(a).)  Moreover, “[t]he requesting party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction….”  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).)  
 
When timely responses to
interrogatories are not received, “[t]he party propounding the interrogatories
may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”  (CCP § 2030.290(b).) “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it. . .  [t]he party
to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product. . . .  The
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(a)–(b).)
 
Plaintiff moves compel responses to
FIs, SIs and RPDs to deem RFAs admitted against Defendant Edwards. Plaintiff
served the subject discovery on July 11, 2024. Responses were due on August 14,
2024. In opposition, Defendant’s counsel represents that counsel did not
receive the discovery until the motions were served. Counsel represents that
responses have been served.
 
As responses have been served, the
motions are DENIED as moot. 
 
                                                                
 
 