 Case Number:  23TRCV01540    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CHRISTINE
  RUSH, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01540




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BRANT
  GRIFFIN,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 4,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Brant Griffin
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Christine Rush
Demurrer
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
On May 16, 2023, plaintiff
Christine Rush filed a complaint against Brant Griffin for premises liability
based on a slip and fall on April 24, 2021. 
Plaintiff alleges that she was a guest at defendant’s property in Palm
Springs to celebrate a birthday.  On the
night of the incident, plaintiff arrived at the property around 10:00 p.m. and
took her dog outside to relieve itself. 
Plaintiff’s dog wandered into the swimming pool and began to drown.  Plaintiff entered the pool to rescue her dog,
and after successfully doing so, she exited the pool and walked toward the
overhead where towels were kept.  As
plaintiff was walking on the tiled surface, she slipped and fell due to the
tiles being slippery when wet.           
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Brant Griffin demurs to
the complaint on the ground that it fails to state a cause of action against
him because it is barred by the two year statute of limitations under CCP §335.1.
Defendant asserts that plaintiff
alleges that the incident occurred on April 24, 2021 when she allegedly
sustained injuries but the complaint was not filed until more than two years
later on May 16, 2023.  
In opposition, plaintiff contends
that the complaint was “initially filed on April 18, 2023,” but that due to
technical deficiencies in the filing, the court’s clerk rejected the initial
filing on April 19, 2023 because the filing was missing page two of the Civil
Case Cover Sheet (Form CM-010) and the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and
Statement of Location (LASC Form CIV 109). 
Plaintiff asserts that “plaintiff’s counsel promptly rectified these
deficiencies as soon as he was aware and refiled the complaint on May 5, 2023”
but that the May 5, 2023 filing was similarly rejected, “and promptly rectified
by counsel” and the court “officially accepted the filing on May 16,
2024.”  Plaintiff requests that the court
take “judicial notice of the fact” the complaint was filed on April 18, 2023
before the statute of limitations expired. 
Plaintiff argues that the court’s clerk was required to file the
complaint when plaintiff submitted the complaint, citing to Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 2.30(c).  Plaintiff also seeks
relief under CCP §473(b) based on mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect and CCP §471.5 based on the relation back doctrine.
In reply, defendant argues that
even assuming that CCP §473 applies, plaintiff failed to seek relief within six
months.  Further, defendant contends,
there is no evidence of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect
as to why plaintiff failed to file a timely complaint after the clerk rejected
the filing on April 19, 2023.  Defendant
also argues that CCP §471.5 is not applicable because no “amended complaint”
had been filed.
The court rules as follows:  The complaint is barred on its face by the two-year
statute of limitations under CCP §335.1. 
Plaintiff alleges that the incident where she was injured occurred on
April 24, 2021.  The complaint was not
filed until May 16, 2023.
As for relief for untimely filing
or to reinstate or correct the purported original filing date, “[t]he functions
of the clerk are purely ministerial.  The
clerk has no discretion to reject a complaint that substantially conforms to
the local rules.”  Rojas v. Cutsforth
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 774, 777 (citation omitted).  In Rojas, the plaintiff’s attorney had
mailed the complaint for filing before the statute of limitations expired, but
did not receive the rejection by the clerk until after the statute of
limitations expired.  The court had found
that the defect was insubstantial.  
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.220(c)
states:  “If a party that is required to
provide a cover sheet under this rule or a similar local rule fails to do so or
provides a defective or incomplete cover sheet at the time the party's first
paper is submitted for filing, the clerk of the court must file the paper.”  
CCP §1010.6(e)(4)(E) states:
“If the clerk of the court does not
file a complaint or cross complaint because the complaint or cross complaint
does not comply with applicable filing requirements or the required filing fee
has not been paid, any statute of limitations applicable to the causes of
action alleged in the complaint or cross complaint shall be tolled for the
period beginning on the date on which the court received the document and as
shown on the confirmation of receipt described in subparagraph (A), through the
later of either the date on which the clerk of the court sent the notice of
rejection described in subparagraph (C) or the date on which the electronic
filing service provider or electronic filing manager sent the notice of
rejection as described in subparagraph (D), plus one additional day if the
complaint or cross complaint is subsequently submitted in a form that corrects
the errors which caused the document to be rejected. The party filing the
complaint or cross complaint shall not make any change to the complaint or
cross complaint other than those required to correct the errors which caused
the document to be rejected.”
The court notes that plaintiff did
not file a motion to correct the filing date or to reinstate the original
filing date.  In any event, the court
finds that such a request would have no ground. 
As defendant points out, this case is distinguishable from Rojas,
and plaintiff does not address in the opposition to argue otherwise.  In the herein case, plaintiff’s counsel
received the clerk rejection four days before the statute of limitations
expired and the defect was not insubstantial. 
Plaintiff has not shown that he filed a complaint that substantially
complied with the local rules, until after the statute of limitations
expired.  Even considering CCP §1010.6,
and if the statute of limitations was extended, plaintiff still did not file a
timely complaint.  CCP §473 is not
applicable because plaintiff did not seek relief within six months.  This case does not involve an amended
complaint and thus CCP §471.5 does not apply. 
The demurrer is thus SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as it is time barred. 
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.