 Case Number:  23TRCV02697    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JG
  BUILDERS, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02697




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
KIMBERLY
  CATES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 4, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Cross-defendants JG
Builders, Inc., Ecosmart Builders, LLC, Jose Guadalupe Ramirez, and Kamyar K.
Reszani
Responding
Party:                  Cross-complainants Kimberly Cates and Nancy Dodd
(1)  
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
(2)  
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
(3)  
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
(4)  
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
(5)  
Motion to Strike
(6)  
Motion to Strike
(7)  
Motion to Strike
(8)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrers to the second, third,
and seventh causes of action in the cross-complaint are SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS
LEAVE TO AMEND.  The demurrer to the
eighth cause of action is OVERRULED.  The
motions to strike are GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to claim for
punitive damages.
BACKGROUND
            On August 17, 2023, plaintiff JG
Builders, Inc., dba Ecosmart Builders filed a complaint against Kimberly Cates
and Nancy Dodd for breach of contract.
            On November 2, 2023, the court sustained
defendants Cates and Dodd’s demurrer to the complaint with leave to amend.
            On November 2, 2023, defendants
Cates and Dodd filed a cross-complaint against Ecosmart Builders, LLC, Kamyar
K. Rezani, Farzad Zamani, JG Builders, Inc., and Jose Guadalupe Ramirez for (1)
breach of written contract, (2) breach of oral contract, (3) misrepresentation,
(4) negligence, (5) statutory recovery of compensation paid, (6) recission, (7)
fraud, and (8) unfair business practices.
            On November 22, 2023, plaintiff JG
Builders, Inc. dba Ecosmart Builders filed a FAC for breach of contract.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP §436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP
§436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrers
Cross-complainants demur to the second,
third, seventh, and eighth causes of action on the grounds that the allegations
are insufficient to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
FAC
As context, the FAC alleges that on
December 4, 2021, plaintiff and defendants executed a written contract wherein
plaintiff was to construct an Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”) on defendants’
property located at 624 W. Acacia Ave., El Segundo.  Plaintiff agreed to provide all services,
materials, and labor for the conversion of defendant’s garage into an ADU
pursuant to a Term Sheet.  FAC, ¶15, Exh.
4.  Plaintiff was to be paid by
defendants pursuant to a schedule of progress payment per certain
“Milestones.”  Id., ¶16.  On December 17, 2021, defendants submitted
payment by way of defendant Cates’ check in the sum of $10,000 for the initial
deposit and Milestone 1 payment.  Id., ¶17.  On June 16, 2022, pursuant to the December 4,
2021 written contract, plaintiff completed Milestone 2 by obtaining the
necessary permits from the City of El Segundo. 
At this time, defendants’ payment for Milestone 2 came due.  Defendants did not submit payment for
Milestone 2 until July 18, 2022.  This
was in breach of the December 4, 2021 contract. 
Id., ¶14.  On July 17, 2022,
defendants gave plaintiff access to defendants’ property and plaintiff began
construction at defendants’ property. 
Id., ¶20.  Defendants submitted
checks totaling $54,040 for Milestone 3. 
Id., ¶22.  On January 10, 2023,
defendants took issue with the kitchen cabinets, bookshelf and materials that
were going to be used within the ADU. 
Defendants took issue with quality of materials they never saw.  Id., ¶23. 
On March 1, 2023, defendants sent notice that they were terminating
their agreement with plaintiff and would not allow plaintiff to complete the
work.  Plaintiff stopped work per
defendants’ demand.  Id., ¶28.  Defendants breached the December 1, 2021
agreement by failing to submit timely payment, forbid plaintiff to complete the
kitchen, forbid plaintiff to complete the bookshelf, and unnecessarily placed a
stop work order on the entire project. 
Id., ¶31.  Defendants breached the
contract by failing to pay the unpaid principal balance of $68,170 despite
plaintiff’s demand.  Id., ¶34.
            Cross-Complaint
The cross-complaint alleges that
Ecosmart is an LLC.  Its members are
defendants Rezani, Zamani, and Ramirez. 
In 2012, Ecosmart applied for a contractor’s license.  Cross-complaint, ¶13.  The Cal. State License Board issued a general
B contractor’s license number 971444 to Ecosmart in 2012.  Id., ¶14. 
On December 2018, Ramirez applied for a separate contractor’s license
with JG Builders.  The Contractor’s board
assigned license number 1049536 to JG Builders. 
Id., ¶15.  On November 1, 2020,
defendants sent the contractor’s board a license cancellation request to cancel
97114 used by Ecosmart, and it was cancelled. 
Id., ¶16.  Despite no longer
possessing a valid contractor license, Ecosmart continued to perform
construction services in the Los Angeles area. 
Id., ¶17.
The cross-complaint further alleges
that in November 2021, cross-complainants were interviewing general contractors
to hire to convert their existing detached garage into an ADU.  Cross-complainants spoke with Zamani who
represented he was the CEO and owner of Ecosmart and that Ecosmart was a
licened general contractor.  Id., ¶18.  In December 2021, Zamani presented a contract
for Ecosmart to convert the garage into an ADU; the contract price was $130,000
for the construction of a “premium” ADU which was to include a kitchen, laundry
room, and bathroom.  It was signed by
Zamani on behalf of Ecosmart.  Id., ¶19.  Nowhere in the agreement is JG Builders, Inc.
or Jose Guadalupe Ramirez.  Id., ¶20.  The contract listed contractor license number
1049536, which is the license belonging to JG Builders.  Id., ¶21. 
On June 16, 2022, Ecosmart applied for a building permit, which listed
the general contractor for the project as JG Builders and its address in El
Monte.  Id., ¶24.  Between July 2022 and March 2023, Ecosmart
performed services on the subject property and did not maintain a valid
contractor license, collecting $103,750 in payments.  Id., ¶25.
The cross-complaint further alleges
that Ecosmart failed to complete the project as required under the
agreement.  The project took much longer
than represented, and it failed to construct the project within the standard of
care.  It was notified of the numerous
defects and errors in its work but refused to make the required repairs.  Id., ¶26. 
Ramirez is the responsible managing owner for JG Builders contractor’s
license and failed to supervise the work of the employees of Ecosmart and the
work of Ecosmart’s subcontractors.  Id., ¶27.  Ecosmart collected more from
cross-complainants than the work performed at the property in violation of Bus.
and Prof. Code §7159.  Id., ¶28.  Due to the numerous problems and issues with
Ecosmart’s performance of the work and its numerous delays and inability to
properly repair the many defects reported to it, cross-complainants terminated
Ecosmart’s contract on March 1, 2023. 
Id., ¶29.
            Second
cause of action for breach of oral contract
“To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, [plaintiff] must plead the contract, his performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, [defendant’s] breach and the resulting
damage.”  Lortz v. Connell (1969)
273 Cal. App. 2d 286, 290.  “To state a
cause of action for breach of contract, it is absolutely essential to plead the
terms of the contract either in haec verba or according to legal effect.”  Twaite v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1989) 216
Cal. App. 3d 239, 252.     
The cross-complaint alleges that
between December 2021 through March 2023, cross-defendants entered into several
oral contracts with cross-complainants to perform the above described
construction services.  Cross-complaint, ¶35.  They breached the oral contracts by failing
to perform the services described in the contract in a good and workmanlike
manner in accordance with accepted trade practices and free from defects.  Id., ¶37. 
In addition, cross-defendants breached their agreement to obtain and
carry the requisite general contractor’s license.  Id., ¶38.
Cross-defendants argue that the
cross-complaint does not allege what the oral contracts were or the essential
terms of the oral contracts.
In opposition, cross-complainants
argue that the allegations are sufficient because they allege that Zamani made
oral statements and misrepresentations about his role with Ecosmart and about
Ecosmart having a contractor’s license, “which form the oral contract at issue
were made in furtherance of the overall fraud by all cross-defendants.”  
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient and are uncertain and cross-complainants appear to
be conflating a breach of oral contract with allegations of fraud.  The cross-complaint alleges “several oral contracts”
but does not provide any allegations to identify them or the terms. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second cause of action.
            Third
cause of action for misrepresentation
The elements of negligent
misrepresentation are: (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, (2) without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true, (3) with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) ignorance
of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom the
misrepresentation was directed, and (5) damages. Where the defendant makes
false statements, honestly believing that they are true, but without reasonable
ground for such belief, he may be liable for negligent misrepresentation, a
form of deceit.  B.L.M. v. Sabo &
Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 823, 834. 
“To withstand demurrer, the facts constituting every element of fraud
must be alleged with particularity, and the claim cannot be salvaged by
references to the general policy favoring the liberal construction of
pleadings.”  Goldrich v. Natural Y
Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th 772, 782.  The particularity requirement necessitates
pleadings facts that “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 645.       
The cross-complaint alleges that
cross-defendants through their word and deeds made misrepresentations to
cross-complainants about their intent and ability to construct the work at the
property in a good and workmanlike manner, free from defects.  They promised via its contracts that the
property would be constructed in a workmanlike manner and that
cross-defendants’ would be properly licensed and carry the required workman’s
compensation insurance.  Cross-complaint,
¶43.  Cross-defendants lacked reasonable
grounds for the representations that they were willing to construct the ADU in
a good and workmanlike manner, free from defects.  In addition, they never possessed the
required general contractors’ license. 
They illegally used JG Builders’ contractor license number.  They made numerous false statements and used
these false promises and reassurances to obtain additional funds from cross-complainants
for construction work performed at the subject property.  Id., ¶45.
Cross-defendants argue that the
cross-complaint appears to be alleging nothing more than breach of an alleged
agreement to construct an ADU, and that there is no allegation of a
misrepresentation of any past or existing material fact.  Cross-defendants further contend that the
cause of action is uncertain because the cross-complaint “mush and reference
all five” cross-defendants and assert that they made false statements.  Cross-defendants also assert that the
cross-complaint fails to identify the statements and promises, outside of those
stated in the written contract. 
In opposition, cross-complainants
argue that the allegations are sufficient and that “[a]s is clear from the
entirety of the cross-complaint, the negligent misrepresentations and fraud
have to do with the cross-defendants’ illegal renting of the contractor license
and go well beyond the construction of the ADU.”
 
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient and have not been plead with the requisite
particularity.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third cause of action. 
            Seventh
cause of action for fraud [misnumbered in the cross-complaint]
The elements of a fraud claim are
(1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to deceive; and (4)
reliance and resulting damage.  Vega
v. Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue (2004) 121 Cal. App. 4th 282, 290.  “To withstand demurrer, the facts
constituting every element of fraud must be alleged with particularity, and the
claim cannot be salvaged by references to the general policy favoring the
liberal construction of pleadings.”  Goldrich
v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th 772,
782.  The particularity requirement
necessitates pleadings facts that “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” 
Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 645.
The cross-complaint alleges that prior
to entering into the agreement, cross-defendants represented to cross-complainants
that Ecosmart possessed the experience, expertise and as a licensed California contractor
would be capable of converting the existing garage into an ADU at the property.  Cross-defendants further represented that as
a licensed California general contractor, a qualified individual would also
supervise the construction work to be performed at the property.  These representations about Ecosmart’s license
and qualifications as a general contractor were made directly to cross-complainants
and to the general public.  At all times Ecosmart
performed work under the contract, Ecosmart was not a licensed general
contractor.  Cross-complaint, ¶71.
Cross-defendants argue that the
allegations lack specificity.
In opposition, cross-complainants
argue that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient and have not been plead with the requisite
particularity.  The cross-complaint does
not allege how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the misrepresentations
were made.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the seventh cause of action. 
            Eighth
cause of action for unfair business practices
            The purpose of the Unfair Business
Practices Act (Bus. & Prof. Code §17000, et. seq.) is to “safeguard the
public against the creation or perpetuation of monopolies and to foster and
encourage competition, by prohibiting unfair, dishonest, deceptive,
destructive, fraudulent and discriminatory practices by which fair and honest
competition is destroyed or prevented.” 
Bus. & Prof. Code §17001.  The
Unfair Business Practices Act shall include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice.”  Bus. &
Prof. Code §17200.  The Unfair Business
Practices Act is a tool with which to enjoin deceptive or sharp practices.  Samura v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (1993) 17 Cal. App. 4th 1284, 1299, fn. 6.  A plaintiff alleging unfair business
practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.  Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 612, 619.   
The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendants
engaged and continue to engage in business practices which are unfair and
unlawful and in violation of Bus. and Prof. Code §17200, et seq. by
fraudulently representing to cross-complainants and the general public that it
was a properly licensed general contractor. 
They also violated the Bus. and Prof. Code by failing to have an actual
RMO supervise, coordinate, and inspect the construction services being
performed under JG Builders’ contractor’s license.  Cross-complaint, ¶79.
Cross-defendants argue that the
cause of action is uncertain because it incorporates all the prior allegations
and causes of action and fails to allege who on behalf of the two corporate
cross-defendants engaged in unfair and unlawful business practice.
In opposition, cross-defendants
argue that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient to plead violation of Bus. and Prof. Code based on
Ecosmart’s alleged illegal use of JG Builders’ contractor’s license and
fraudulently representing that it had a contractor’s license.  
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
eighth cause of action.
 
Motion to Strike
Cross-defendants request that the
court strike the prayer for punitive and exemplary damages.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).  “’Fraud’
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  Civil Code §3294(c)(3).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in College
Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances that
are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal issued a
peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking punitive
damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any factual
assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression, fraud,
or malice”).
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  See also
the demurrer ruling under the third and seventh causes of action.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
The demurrers to the second, third,
and seventh causes of action in the cross-complaint are SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS
LEAVE TO AMEND.  The demurrer to the
eighth cause of action is OVERRULED.  The
motions to strike are GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to claim for
punitive damages.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.