 Case Number:  24SMCV00099    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Fanfixapp LLC,
v. Passes Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00099
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel a Further Response to Special Interrogatory No. 1
HEARING DATE:   6/28/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            In the absence of contrary court
order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is broad. “[A]ny party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action . . . if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291, 301.)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.220(a) requires that “[e]ach answer in a response to interrogatories shall
be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to
the responding party permits.” Pursuant to CCP section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Passes Inc. moves to
compel Plaintiffs Fanfixapp LLC and Superordinaryco USA Inc.’s further response
to Special Interrogatory (SROG) no. 1.   The interrogatory is as follows:
 
SROG no. 1: IDENTIFY WITH
PRECISION AND SPECIFICITY EACH AND EVERY ALLEGED TRADE SECRET that FANFIX
contends PASSES unlawfully acquired, used, or disclosed. (“IDENTIFY WITH
PRECISION AND SPECIFICITY EACH AND EVERY ALLEGED TRADE SECRET” as used herein
means to provide a specific description of each. such alleged trade secret, on
an individual basis for each such alleged trade secret, in such a manner that
the exact identity, scope, boundaries, constitutive elements, and content of
each such alleged trade secret are fully disclosed in writing, in contrast to
an agglomerated set of conclusory phrases that does not separately list and
describe each such alleged trade secret, in contrast to a mere list of
documents or file names, and with precision above that required by California
Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.210.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
objections to this SROG are overruled. The SROG properly seeks information
related to trade secrets/confidential information in the context of this action
for trade secret misappropriation. Plaintiff does not substantiate their claims
of privilege and privacy. Further, to the extent that there is such an
objection, the information is not equally available to Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff provided the following
response, in relevant part: Plaintiff further states that investigation to date
indicates that at a minimum Passes has obtained, used, and/or disclosed the
following:
 
·      
Company documents, specifically including
presentations and accompanying materials, meant for internal-only distribution
that synthesize Plaintiff’s market research (used in turn for the development
of company strategy by region and content type), Plaintiff’s methodologies for
evaluating and selecting creators for the Fanfix platform and for pursuing and
securing relationships with those creators, as well as Plaintiff’s marketing
strategies; 
·      
Communications and referrals to third party
vendors and contractors containing confidential information regarding
Plaintiff’s business strategies (including without limitation, targeted areas
for growth, creators and content suitable for the platform, creator performance
on the platform, trends in creator performance on the platform, industry and
market trends, regional trends, requirements for entry into different regional
markets, pricing structures, contract terms, and creator and agency
preferences); 
·      
Documents identifying creators contracted or
negotiating with Plaintiff, as well as their contact information; 
·      
Documents and information either directly
revealing or from which a recipient could derive, the unique terms of
Plaintiff’s creator and vendor agreements including compensation breakdown (and
exact minimum guarantees, performance milestones, referral arrangements, etc.),
which have been developed and established for each creator based on market
research, branding resources and strategy, and relationships with creators and
agencies painstakingly developed and maintained over time; and 
·      
Compilations of the foregoing and associated
performance analytics for the creators identified therein (including without
limitation, subscriber statistics and behavioral data, revenue generated by
creator over various timeframes, revenue generated by region over various
timeframes, and as noted above, creator compensation), which are not publicly
available and kept confidential within the company by employees subject to
strict confidentiality obligations.
 
The Court finds this response to be
incomplete. Plaintiffs’ response fails to provide any specific or identifiable trade
secret. Instead, Plaintiff’s response proffers broad categories of the types of
trade secrets (“presentations” which synthesize market research, “methodologies
for evaluating and selecting creators,” “marketing strategies,” “communications”
re: certain “business strategies,” “compensation” terms, etc.). Plaintiff
insists that it only needs to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
2019.210’s requirement to identify the trade secrets with “reasonable
particularity.” However, section 2019.210 requires identification with
reasonable particularity “before commencing discovery” concerning a trade
secret. This action has passed this threshold issue. Specific discovery as to
the details of the trade secrets at play is proper. 
 
Based upon the informal discovery conference,
the Court believes that counsel are working together to solve their discovery disputes.  In their motion and reply, Defendants
identified specific issues (some redacted in the public filing) that they had
with the responses.  The Court concurs
with Defendants’ specific concerns. In sum, Plaintiff must provide a plain and
straightforward identification of each and every trade secret it currently
believes Passes unlawfully acquired, used or disclosed. Accordingly, the motion
is GRANTED.  A further response is
ordered within 30 days.