  Case Number:  20STCV48250    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOAN BARBOZA,  
  
         vs.
 
HOWARD
  MANAGEMENT GROUP, et al. 


 Case No.:  20STCV48250 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  August 19, 2024



 
Defendants Howard Management Group’s, Jan
T. Khoe and Kim T. Khoe, Trustees of the Khoe Family Trust Dated November 30th,
1989’s, John T. Khoe’s, and Enpo Stella Chang’s unopposed motion to
enforce the Settlement Agreement is granted.
Defendants are to submit a judgment to
this Court within 10 days of this ruling.
 
          Defendants Howard
Management Group (“Howard Management”), Jan T. Khoe and Kim T. Khoe, Trustees
of the Khoe Family Trust Dated November 30th, 1989 (“Trust”), John T. Khoe
(“Khoe”), and Enpo Stella Chang (“Chang”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move unopposed
for an order enforcing the settlement agreed to between pro per
Plaintiff Joan Barboza (“Barboza”) and Defendants at the August 4, 2023,
Mandatory Settlement Conference.  (Notice
of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §664.6.)
 
          Background
          This is a
residential landlord-tenant case involving an apartment in a multi-apartment
building at 9400 National Blvd. in West Los Angeles.  Plaintiff is the current tenant in Apartment 4
(“Subject Property”). Defendants believe Plaintiff has been a tenant since
1981.  Defendants Trust, Khoe, and Chang
are owners of the Subject Property and Howard Management is the manager.
Plaintiff alleged that the Subject Property had various
habitability-related issues such as water intrusion, environmental
contamination, and pest infestations. Defendants deny habitability issues.  Plaintiff filed her Complaint on December 14,
2020.  The parties engaged in expansive
discovery including written discovery, depositions, an Independent Medical
Examination of the Plaintiff, and a site inspection.  The matter was originally set for trial on
September 12, 2022. 
Over the lifetime of the case, the parties participated in both
private mediation on February 23, 2022, and Mandatory Settlement Conferences on
June 14, 2022, and September 8, 2022.  Shortly
before the September 2022 trial, on August 30, 2022, the Plaintiff fired her
attorney and began representing herself.
The Court then continued the trial date several times to allow the
Plaintiff, now in pro per, additional time to either find new counsel or
prepare for trial herself.
After several continuances, the case was set for trial on August
14, 2023. On August 4, 2023, during a Final Status Conference, the Court
ordered the parties to a Mandatory Settlement Conference.
During the August 4, 2023, in person, Mandatory Settlement
Conference, Judge Ruth Kwan of Department 89 assisted the parties in reaching a
settlement. After several hours of voluntary negotiations, in a writing with certain
material terms drafted by defense counsel and signed by Plaintiff, the parties
to this action settled the dispute among them.  A Minute Order dated August 4, 2023, noted
that at about 2:30 pm, the parties, including Plaintiff, represented to the
Court that the case had settled.  (Decl. of
Newell ¶2, Exh. A.)
A settlement agreement was prepared at the Courthouse and signed
by Plaintiff.  (Decl. of Newell ¶3, Exh.
B.)  Shortly after Plaintiff signed the
settlement agreement, Plaintiff’s prior counsel notified defense counsel
that a Medicare lien existed on the case.  (Decl. of Newell ¶4, Exh. C.)  Defense counsel immediately notified Plaintiff
of the Medicare lien and advised she would need to resolve the lien.  (Decl. of Newell ¶5, Exh. D.)  Plaintiff then began
negotiating with Medicare to resolve her lien. To assist in the
lien negotiations, on August 8, 2023, defense counsel forwarded subpoenaed
records from Dr. Stricke and the Independent Medical Examination Report from
Dr. Jonathan Corren to Plaintiff.  (Decl.
of Newell ¶6, Exh. E.)
Plaintiff continued her efforts to resolve the Medicare lien,
advising defense counsel in October and November 2023 that she continued to
follow up with Medicare regarding the negotiations.  (Decl. of Newell ¶¶7-8, Exhs. F-G.) Plaintiff’s
subsequent conduct in addressing the lien demonstrates her efforts to perform under
the agreement, solidifies the settlement, and demonstrates Plaintiff's belief
that she entered into a valid and binding settlement at the time which resolved
all claims she had against Defendants.
On February 14, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion.  As of the date of this hearing no opposition
has been filed by Plaintiff.
 
          Motion to Enforce Settlement
          Legal Standard
C.C.P. §664.6 provides, as
follows: “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by
the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for
settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties,
the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement
until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”  (C.C.P. §664.6(a).)
The court ruling on such a
motion may consider the parties’ declarations and other evidence in deciding
the agreed-to terms by the parties.  (In
re Marriage of Assemi (1994) 7 Cal.4th 896, 905, 911.)  If the court determines that the parties
entered into an enforceable settlement, it should grant the motion and enter a
formal judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.  (Corkland v. Boscoe (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d
989, 995.)
In addition to finding an
enforceable agreement signed by the parties, a court analyzing a C.C.P. § 664.6
motion must also determine whether the parties mutually consented to the
material terms of the settlement.  (See,
e.g., Gauss v. GAF Corp. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1110.)  The test for mutual consent is objective
rather than subjective, “being what the outward manifestations of consent would
lead a reasonable person to believe.  (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 811, internal
quotations omitted.)
 
          Discussion
Defendants submitted evidence
that Plaintiff and Defendants executed a Settlement Agreement that is signed by
the parties and contains a provision authorizing this Court to retain
jurisdiction under C.C.P. §664.6.  (Decl.
of Newell ¶3,
Exh. B.)  Accordingly, Defendants submitted
evidence of the existence of a valid settlement agreement and are therefore entitled
to an order enforcing the settlement. 
The Parties agreed on a settlement
amount of one-hundred and ninety-five thousand dollars ($195,000.00).  (Decl. of Newell ¶3, Exh. B at ¶3.1.)  The terms of the agreement specifically noted
State Farm, on behalf of Defendants, would pay thirty-four thousand dollars
($34,000.00) to Plaintiff’s prior counsel to resolve the Attorney Fee Lien.  (Decl. of Newell ¶3, Exh. B at ¶¶3.2, 3.3.)  The net sum to Plaintiff would be one-hundred
and sixty-one thousand dollars ($161,000.00), less any medical liens.  (Decl. of Newell ¶3, Exh. B at ¶¶3.4, 3.6, 3.7.)
 The terms specifically indicated that
Plaintiff would be responsible for the satisfaction of any liens arising from
the lawsuit, including medical liens.  (Decl.
of Newell ¶3,
Exh. B at ¶¶3.6, 3.7)
Plaintiff specifically agreed
that Defendants would have no obligation regarding any liens associated with
the Lawsuit.  (Decl. of Newell ¶3,
Exh. B at ¶3.6.)  In exchange, the
Plaintiff agreed to release and discharge her claims against Defendants related
to her tenancy at the subject property through the date of the signed
settlement agreement.  (Decl. of Newell ¶3,
Exh. B at ¶¶4, 5.)  Following receipt of
the net sum of the settlement amount from State Farm, Plaintiff would dismiss
the lawsuit against Defendants.  (Decl.
of Newell ¶3,
Exh. B at ¶3.5.)
The parties mutually
consented to the terms of the Settlement Agreement.  Here, after the August 4, 2023, Mandatory
Settlement Agreement, Plaintiff contacted her prior attorney to negotiate a
resolution of his Attorneys’ Fee Lien.  (Decl.
of Newell ¶4.)  This occurred in the hallway
of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse outside of Department 89.  (Decl. of Newell ¶4.)  Defense counsel called Plaintiff’s prior counsel and noted
the agreement between Plaintiff and her prior attorney to resolve the lien.  (See Decl. of Newell ¶4.)  The parties then indicated
the amount of the settlement of the lien in the amount of $34,000, which was included
in the settlement agreement.  (See
Decl. of Newell ¶4.)  This resulted in a net amount to Plaintiff of $161,000.
In the months following
signing the settlement agreement, Plaintiff also attempted to negotiate her Medicare
lien.  (Decl. of Newell ¶8.)  Defense counsel regularly
checked in with Plaintiff asking for updates regarding the status of the
negotiation and offering to provide Plaintiff with documents, such as medical
records and the Independent Medical Examination report from Dr. Jonathan Corren
for Plaintiff to provide to Medicare to assist in decreasing the amount that
Medicare demanded to resolve the lien.  (See
Decl. of Newell ¶¶6-7, Exhs. D-E.)
Plaintiff confirmed with
defense counsel in October and November 2023 that she continued her efforts to resolve
the Medicare lien.  (Decl. of Newell ¶¶7-8;
Exhs. F-G.)
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion to enforce the Settlement Agreement is granted.

 
Conclusion
Defendants’ unopposed
motion to enforce the Settlement Agreement is granted.
Defendants are to submit a
judgment to the Court within 10 days of this ruling.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  August
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  