 Case Number:  22STCV27620    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ROBERT J. KILPATRICK, JR.,  
  
        
  vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES.


 Case
  No.:  22STCV27620
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 11, 2024



 
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ motion for summary
judgment of Plaintiff Robert J. Kilpatrick Jr.’s complaint is granted.
 
Defendant
City of Los Angeles (“City”) (“Defendant”) moves for summary judgment of
Plaintiff Robert J. Kilpatrick Jr.’s (“Kilpatrick”) (“Plaintiff”) operative
complaint on the grounds that there are no triable issues of fact because
Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment for a legitimate,
non-discriminatory reason, i.e., Plaintiff’s failure to meet a condition of
employment of Defendant and failure to appear at two separate Board of Rights
hearings, and that Plaintiff cannot produce evidence of pretext and as a matter
of law, lacks sufficient evidence to support a finding of discrimination,
retaliation, and/or a failure to accommodate a religious belief.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §437c; Guz
v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 353-354.)  
Defendant
moves in the alternative for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s 1st [Issue
1], 2nd [Issue 2], 3rd [Issue 2], 4th [Issue 3], and
5th [Issue 4] causes of action. 
(Notice Motion, pgs. 2-3; C.C.P. §437c(f)(1).)  Defendant moves on the grounds the 1st cause
of action for Religious Discrimination in Violation of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”) fails because Plaintiff cannot establish a causal
connection between his protected class (religion) and his adverse employment
action (Plaintiff’s termination). 
(Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  Defendant
moves on the grounds Plaintiff’s 2nd and 3rd causes of action for Retaliation
in Violation of FEHA and Labor Code §1102.5, respectively, fail because Plaintiff
cannot establish that his alleged protected activity was a substantial
motivating reason for Defendant’s decision to terminate Plaintiff.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  Defendant moves on the grounds Plaintiff’s
4th cause of action for Failure to Accommodate a Religious Belief in Violation
of FEHA fails because Plaintiff cannot show that Defendant knew of a conflict
between Plaintiff’s religious belief and a job requirement and Plaintiff cannot
show that Defendant failed to explore available reasonable alternatives of
accommodating Plaintiff so as not to maintain a conflict between a job
requirement and Plaintiff’s sincerely held religious belief.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  Finally, Defendant moves on the grounds
Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination in
Violation of FEHA fails because Plaintiff cannot establish that he was
subjected to unlawful discrimination in the terms, conditions, or privileges of
his employment.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)[1]  
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant’s
1/26/24 request for judicial notice of (1) the Judgment and final ruling on
Plaintiff’s Petition for Writ of Mandate dated February 16, 2023 (D-RJN, Exh.
A); (2) Former Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti’s official Declaration of Local
Emergency pertaining to the COVID-19 Pandemic dated March 4, 2020 (D-COE, Exh.
1); (3) Los Angeles City Ordinance No. 187134 passed on August 18, 2021 (D-COE,
Exh. 4); and (4) Los Angeles City Charter Section 1060 et. seq. (D-COE, Exh.
19) is granted.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant’s
4/3/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Robert J. Kilpatrick Jr. (“Kilpatrick”)
are sustained as to Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17, and 20, and overruled as to Nos. 1,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, and 19.
 
CRC Violation
CRC Rule 3.1354(b) provides, in part:
All written objections to
evidence must be served and filed separately from the other papers in
support of or in opposition to the motion. Objections to specific evidence
must be referenced by the objection number in the right column of a separate
statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the objections must not be
restated or reargued in the separate statement. Each written objection must be
numbered consecutively and must: 
 
(1)     Identify the name of the document in which the
specific material objected to is located; 
 
(2)     State the exhibit, title, page, and line number of the
material objected to; 
 
(3)     Quote or set forth the objectionable statement or
material; and
 
(4)     State the grounds for each objection to that statement
or material. 
 
(CRC, Rule 3.1345(b), emphasis added.)
          Plaintiff’s
objections within its separate statement in opposition are in violation of CRC,
Rule 3.1345(b) because they are not served and filed separately from the other
papers in support of or in opposition to the motion and in the format
illustrated in CRC, Rule 3.1345(b). 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s objections stated within its
separate statement in opposition.
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint on August 24, 2022,
alleging ten causes of action: (1) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy, (2) religious/medical discrimination in violation of Government Code
§12940 et seq., (3) retaliation in violation of Government Code §12940 et seq.,
(4) violation of Labor Code §1102.5, (5) failure to accommodate in violation of
Government Code §12940 et seq., (6) failure to investigate/prevent
discrimination under Government Code §12940, et seq., (7) breach of written
employer policies, (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (9) negligent
infliction of emotional distress, and (10) injunctive/declaratory relief.
On February 23, 2023, the parties stipulated to strike the 1st,
7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th causes of action and request for punitive damages.[2]  For the purposes of this motion, only the
2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action from the original Complaint
remain.
Defendant filed the instant motion on January 25,
2024.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on
March 20, 2024.  Defendant filed its reply
on April 3, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
A
motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.  (C.C.P.
§437c(c).) 
A
motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a
motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a
motion for summary judgment.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(2).)  A party may move
for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action if
that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in Civil Code §3294, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(1).)  A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  (C.C.P.
§437c(f)(1).) 
 
Religious Discrimination in
Violation of FEHA (2nd COA)
To
demonstrate a cause of action for disparate treatment, plaintiff must provide
evidence that (1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified
for the position sought or was performing competently in the position held, (3)
he suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or
denial of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive.  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
355.)  California courts follow the three-part McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting
framework for discrimination claims under the FEHA.  (Id. at pg. 354.)
“At
trial, the McDonnell Douglas test places on the plaintiff the initial
burden to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. This step is designed
to eliminate at the outset the most patently meritless claims, as where the
plaintiff is not a member of the protected class or was clearly unqualified, or
where the job he sought was withdrawn and never filled. While the plaintiff’s
prima facie burden is ‘not onerous’, he must at least show ‘actions taken by
the employer from which one can infer, if such actions remain unexplained, that
it is more likely than not that such actions were “based on a [prohibited]
discriminatory criterion.”’”  (Id. at
pgs. 354-355.)
Defendant
argues Plaintiff failed to make Defendant aware of his religious objections to
the Los Angeles COVID Vaccine Mandate until long after Defendant began
disciplinary proceedings against him, citing to CACI 2560 for support.  (Motion Memo, pg. 13.)  However, this argument goes to an element of
Plaintiff’s cause of action for failure to accommodate in violation of FEHA,
not Plaintiff’s cause of action for disparate treatment on the basis of
religious creed.  (Compare CACI 2500 with CACI
2560.)  Therefore, Defendant’s argument
on this basis will be reserved for the 5th cause of action.
 
A.  
Adverse Employment Action
Under
FEHA, an adverse employment action is one which “materially affect[s] the
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal. 4th 1028, 1052.)  The
“materiality” test of adverse employment action explained in Yanowitz
looks to “the entire spectrum of employment actions that are reasonably likely
to adversely and materially affect an employee’s job performance or opportunity
for advancement in his or her career,” and the test “must be interpreted
liberally . . . with a reasonable appreciation of the realities of the
workplace.”   (Yanowitz, 36
Cal.4th at pg. 1054.)  “[T]here is no
requirement that an employer’s retaliatory acts constitute one swift blow,
rather than a series of subtle, yet damaging, injuries.”  (Id. at pg. 1055.)
Defendant
argues Plaintiff failed to take advantage of the administrative remedies
outlined in the City Charter before seeking judicial relief and is therefore
barred from asserting this cause of action. 
(Coachella Valley Mosquito & Vector Control District v.
California Public Employment Relations Board (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1072, 1080; Abelleira v. District Court of Appeal
(1941) 17 Cal.2d 280, 292; Ralph’s Chrysler-Plymouth
v. New Car Dealers Policy & Appeals Board (1973) 8 Cal.3d 792, 794 [“[I]f an administrative remedy is provided
by statute, relief must be sought from the administrative body and such remedy exhausted.”].)
Defendant
argues Plaintiff and the Los Angeles Fire Department (“LAFD”) were entitled to
have a Board of Rights hearing under City Charter §1060 and were entitled to
present evidence on their respective behalf.  Defendant argues the proper forum for
Plaintiff to challenge the charge of failing to meet a condition of employment
was the Board of Rights process as dictated in the City Charter. This process
“establishes clearly defined machinery for the submission, evaluation, and resolution
of complaints by aggrieved parties’ [Citation]” but Plaintiff failed to take
advantage of his opportunity to prove his innocence in front of the Board of
Rights.  (Ross v. Superior
Court (1977) 19 Cal.3d 899, 912.)  
Defendant
submitted evidence that LAFD gave Plaintiff two separate opportunities to show
that he would come into compliance with the COVID Vaccine Mandate but ignored
this opportunity.  Specifically,
Defendant submitted evidence of the transcript of Plaintiff’s first Board of
Rights Hearing held on February 17, 2022, wherein Plaintiff did not appear, and
the Board continued the matter and set a second hearing for March 2, 2022, at
8:00 a.m., to afford Plaintiff a second opportunity to appear and be heard.  (Defendant’s Disputed Separate Statement of
Fact [“D-DSSF”] 26; D-COE, Exh. 27 at 8:22-11:21; Exh. 25.)  Plaintiff submitted evidence that Plaintiff
and his legal counsel failed to appear at Plaintiff’s second hearing on March
2, 2022, and the Board elected to impose the penalty of removal pursuant to
City Charter §1060(h) without a hearing, after giving Plaintiff time to appear.
 (D-DSSF 27; D-COE, Exh. 28 at 5:21-8:25;
Exh. 29.)  Defendant’s evidence does not
negate the fact that Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, which is
not disputed by Defendants; in fact, Defendants submitted evidence of
Plaintiff’s termination. Instead, Defendants merely allege Plaintiff is not, as
a matter of law, entitled to allege a cause of action for religious
discrimination because he did not exhaust his administrative remedies.  Further, Defendant fails to submit legal
authority stating that Defendant’s failure to attend the Board meeting bars him
from asserting the instant cause of action.[3]
The
Court therefore finds Defendant’s argument on failure to exhaust administrative
remedies to be unavailing and proceeds with its analysis using the McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting framework on the
basis that the parties do not dispute Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment
action.
 
B.   
Non-discriminatory Reason for Adverse
Employment Action
“If .
. . plaintiff establishes a prima facie case, a presumption of discrimination
arises. [Citations.] This presumption, though ‘rebuttable,’ is ‘legally
mandatory.’ [Citations.] Thus, in a trial, ‘[i]f the trier of fact believes the
plaintiff’s evidence, and if the employer is silent in the face of the
presumption, the court must enter judgment for the plaintiff because no issue
of fact remains in the case.’ [Citations.] [¶] Accordingly, at this . . .
stage, the burden shifts to the employer to rebut the presumption by producing
admissible evidence, sufficient to ‘raise [ ] a genuine issue of fact’ and to
‘justify a judgment for the [employer],’ that its action was taken for a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason. [Citations.]”  (Guz, 24 Cal.4th at pgs. 355-356,
internal citations omitted.)
Defendant
argues it had a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason to terminate Plaintiff’s
employment, namely that Defendant failed to appear at his second Board of
Rights hearing on March 2, 2022.  (Motion
Memo, pg. 17.)
Defendant
submitted evidence of its non-discriminatory reason to terminate Plaintiff’s
employment.  Defendant refers this Court
to Los Angeles City Charter §1060(h), which provides: 
If a Board of Rights has been
constituted for the purpose of hearing and the accused,
without reasonable excuse, fails, or refuses to appear before the Board of
Rights at the time and place designated, the Fire Chief may, at his or her
discretion, either direct the Board of Rights to proceed with the hearing in
the absence of the accused, or the Fire Chief may, without a hearing, impose
the penalty of suspension or removal as he or she deems fit and proper. The
Fire Chief shall cause notice of the action to be served upon the accused and
shall file a statement of the action with the Board of Fire Commissioners
within five days.
 
(LACC
§1060(h), emphasis added.)  Defendant
submitted evidence that Plaintiff did not appear before the Board of Rights at
the time and place designated, and the Fire Chief, without a hearing, imposed
the penalty of removal.  (D-DSSF 27.)  Accordingly, Defendant met its burden to
demonstrate a non-discriminatory reason for Plaintiff’s termination, shifting
the burden to Plaintiff to demonstrate Defendant’s proffered reason as pretext
for discrimination.
 
C.   
Pretext for Discrimination
“If
the employer sustains [their] burden [to demonstrate a non-discriminatory
reason for the adverse employment action], the presumption of discrimination
disappears. The plaintiff must then have the opportunity to attack the employer’s
proffered reasons as pretexts for discrimination, or to offer any other
evidence of discriminatory motive. In an appropriate case, evidence of
dishonest reasons, considered together with the elements of the prima facie
case, may permit a finding of prohibited bias. The ultimate burden of
persuasion on the issue of actual discrimination remains with the plaintiff.”  (Guz, 24
Cal.4th at pgs. 355-356, internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s proffered reason is pretext for discrimination because he submitted
a religious exemption request in February 2022, along with 476 other
individuals, and there is no way Defendant could legally justify terminating
Defendant’s, or the other 476 applicants’, application for a religious/medical
exemption without having first considered the exemption request.  (Opposition, pg. 14.)  Plaintiff further argues he complied with the
letter of vaccine ordinance by actually filing the requests for exemption,
which were ignored because Defendant had no process for evaluating or honoring
the requests for exemption prior to his termination.  (Opposition, pg. 15.) 
Defendant
failed to meet his burden to demonstrate Defendant’s proffered
non-discriminatory reason for Plaintiff’s termination is a pretext for
discrimination.  First, based on emails
received by Deputy Chief Graham Everett regarding LAFD COVID-19 vaccination
statistics in Defendant’s compendium of evidence, Plaintiff fails to
demonstrate the other applicants who submitted religious exemption requests faced
adverse employment because of their religious beliefs and not for an
alternative reason, such as failure to adhere to Defendant’s deadline for
submission of a religious exemption request. 
(Plaintiff’s Disputed Separate Statement of Fact [“P-DSSF”] 26; D-COE
Exh. 31.)  Second, Fire Chief Ralph Terrazas’
deposition testimony does demonstrate Terrazas perjured himself when he
initially stated the reason for Plaintiff’s termination.  (P-DSSF 28; D-COE, Exh. 6 at 89:10-90:13.)  Therefore, Plaintiff failed to meet his
burden to demonstrate Defendant’s proffered non-discriminatory reason for
Plaintiff’s termination is a pretext for discrimination.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted as to the 2nd cause of
action.
 
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
and Whistleblower Retaliation (Labor Code §1102.5) (3rd & 4th COAs)
A
cause of action for retaliation in violation of FEHA requires the following
elements: (1) plaintiff engaged in a protected activity as employee; (2)
employer subjected Plaintiff to an adverse employment action; and (3) a causal
link between the protected activity and the employer’s action.  (Yanowitz, 36 Cal.4th at pg.
1042.)  If an employee presents a prima
facie case of retaliation, the court then employs the three-stage McDonnell
Douglas burden shifting analysis discussed above to the employee’s
claim.  (Id.)
To state a cause of action for violation of
Labor Code §1102.5, a plaintiff must prove the following elements: (1)
defendant was plaintiff’s employer; (2) plaintiff disclosed to a person with
authority over plaintiff, or an employee with authority to investigate,
discover, or correct legal violations; (3) that plaintiff had
reasonable cause to believe that the information disclosed a violation of a
state/federal statute or a violation of/noncompliance with a
local/state/federal rule or regulation; (4) that defendant discharged
plaintiff; (5) that plaintiff’s
disclosure of information was a contributing factor in defendant’s decision to
discharge plaintiff; (6) that
plaintiff was harmed; and (7) that defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
(CACI 4603.)
“[W]e now clarify that section 1102.6, and
not McDonnell Douglas, supplies the applicable framework for litigating
and adjudicating section 1102.5 whistleblower claims. [¶] By its terms, section
1102.6 describes the applicable substantive standards and burdens of proof for
both parties in a section 1102.5 retaliation case: First, it must be ‘demonstrated
by a preponderance of the evidence’ that the employee’s protected
whistleblowing was a ‘contributing factor’ to an adverse employment action.
(§1102.6.) Then, once the employee has made that necessary threshold showing,
the employer bears ‘the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear and convincing
evidence’ that the alleged adverse employment action would have occurred ‘for
legitimate, independent reasons’ even if the employee had not engaged in
protected whistleblowing activities.”  (Lawson
v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 712.)
Defendant
argues Plaintiff cannot demonstrate a causal nexus between his alleged
protected activity and his termination.  (Motion Memo, pg. 15.)
Defendant
submitted evidence that Plaintiff’s complaints, made through his counsel, about
his disciplinary proceedings, were based solely on Plaintiff’s belief that he
was deprived of due process, and made no mention of any religious
discrimination or retaliation.  Rather,
it was not until February 28, 2022, that Plaintiff reported his sincerely held
religious belief against the COVID vaccine in the form of his religious
exemption request.  (D-DSSF 10; D-COE
Exh. 7 at 55:4-8; Exh. 8; Exh. 34 at 184:7-10, 193:11-12.)  Defendant submitted evidence that by this
point, Plaintiff had already failed to appear at a Board of Rights proceeding
on February 17, 2022.  (D-DSSF 26.)  Defendant met its burden to demonstrate
Plaintiff cannot establish a causal nexus between his alleged protected
activity and his termination.  Defendant
shifts the burden to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact
as to the two causes of action for retaliation.
Plaintiff
failed to meet his burden to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact as to
the causes of action for retaliation. 
Specifically, Plaintiff submitted his declaration stating that in late
2021, he “had numerous conversations with Dep. Chief Richmond and others that [he]
felt disclosing private medical/religious information was a violation of
privacy. [He] was vocal in trying to guide other firefighters through this
process publishing my opinions on the mandating of vaccination or requiring
members to expose private information. [His] Religious convictions and Church
service were well know at the LAFD throughout my employment.”  (P-DSSF 10; Decl. of Kilpatrick ¶8.)  Plaintiff submitted his declaration stating, 
On October 29, 2021, I received
an mail from LAFD Personnel Department indicating - “DUE MONDAY, NOV 1ST:
Notice of Mandatory COVID-19 Vaccination Policy Requirements...” On November 9,
2021, Assistant Chief Surgey (Guy) Tomlinson served a 48 hour Order to comply with
COLA COVID requirement/mandate for Employees. This occurred in the Battalion 10
office within Fire Station 39 in Van Nuys. On December 15, 2021 at 1540 hours I
was a served a so called “SKELLY PACKET.” PSD Captain’s Mullen and Leach showed
up at his home indicating they had papers for him to sign. I explained that I
had legal counsel, everything must go through my counsel.
 
(P-DSSF 10; Decl.
of Kilpatrick ¶9.)  Plaintiff submitted
his declaration that on December 21, 2021, 
[L]ess than six days
after the service of notice of the hearing hours the so called Board of
Rights/Skelly “HEARING” was convened on a Google virtual meeting/hearing” those
online included; me, Attorney John Howard, and a stenographer hired by Mr.
Howard. For the LAFD was Battalion Chief Amir Caspian, Deputy Chief Kristin
Crowley. After I indicated to Chief Caspian that Mr. Howard would be
representing him during this hearing, Mr. Howard had requested a continuance of
the hearing as he was just retained a few days prior. He advised he was
entitled pursuant to the CA Supreme Court “Skelly” case additional time conduct
investigations and discovery into the complaint prior to the actual Skelly
hearing. Chief Caspian asked Chief Crowley for a ruling for the request. Chief
Crowley then improperly and in violation of actual law/precedence denied the
request. It is noted that neither LAFD Chiefs are lawyers/have any legal
training. Mr. Howard then properly stated “they would not participate in an a
procedurally improper/illegal hearing . . . we would be exiting the meeting,”
and they both properly exited the improper BOR meeting/Skelly hearing.  
 
(P-DSSF 10; Decl.
of Kilpatrick ¶10.)  Defendant failed to
demonstrate a causal nexus between his sincerely held religious belief
against the COVID vaccine in the form of his religious exemption request;
further, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not allege retaliation from his violations
of due process in his Skelly Hearings, but rather his complaints about
discrimination based on his medical condition/religious beliefs.  (See Complaint
¶¶70, 78.)
          Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment is granted as to the 3rd and 4th causes of action.
 
Failure
to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (5th COA)
“In
evaluating an argument the employer failed to accommodate an employee’s
religious beliefs, the employee must establish a prima facie case that he or
she had a bona fide religious belief, of which the employer was aware, that
conflicts with an employment requirement . . .. Once the employee establishes a
prima facie case, then the employer must establish it initiated good faith
efforts to accommodate or no accommodation was possible without producing undue
hardship.”  (Soldinger v.
Northwest Airlines, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 370, internal citation
omitted.)
“Any
reasonable accommodation is sufficient to meet an employer’s obligations.
However, the employer need not adopt the most reasonable accommodation nor must
the employer accept the remedy preferred by the employee. The reasonableness of
the employer’s efforts to accommodate is determined on a case by case basis . .
.. ‘[O]nce it is determined that the employer has offered a reasonable
accommodation, the employer need not show that each of the employee’s proposed
accommodations would result in undue hardship.’ ‘[W]here the employer has
already reasonably accommodated the employee’s religious needs, the . . .
inquiry [ends].’”  (Id.,
internal citations omitted.)
“Requiring
the plaintiff to show that discrimination was a substantial motivating
factor, rather than simply a motivating factor, more effectively ensures
that liability will not be imposed based on evidence of mere thoughts or
passing statements unrelated to the disputed employment decision. At the same
time, . . . proof that discrimination was a substantial factor in an
employment decision triggers the deterrent purpose of the FEHA and thus exposes
the employer to liability, even if other factors would have led the employer to
make the same decision at the time.”  (Harris
v. City of Santa Monica (2013)
56 Cal.4th 203, 232.)
          Defendant argues Plaintiff
failed to make Defendant aware of his religious objections to the Los Angeles
COVID Vaccine Mandate until long after Defendant began disciplinary proceedings
against him.  (Motion Memo, pg. 13.)
          Defendant submitted evidence that it
was not until February 28, 2022, that Plaintiff reported his sincerely held
religious belief against the COVID vaccine in the form of his religious
exemption request.  (D-DSSF 10.)  Defendant met its burden to demonstrate
Plaintiff failed to make Defendant aware that he had a bona fide religious
belief that conflicted with an employment requirement, shifting the burden to Plaintiff
to raise a triable issue of material fact.
          Plaintiff failed to meet his burden to
demonstrate he made Defendant aware that he had a bona fide religious belief
that conflicted with the Los Angeles COVID Vaccine Mandate.  The evidence Plaintiff submitted of his
declaration that he had “numerous conversations with Dep. Chief Richmond and others
that [he] felt disclosing private medical/religious information was a violation
of privacy” and that he “was vocal in trying to guide other firefighters
through this process publishing [his] opinions on the mandating of vaccination
or requiring members to expose private information,” and that his “[r]eligious convictions
and Church service were well know at the LAFD throughout [his] employment” is
not sufficient to demonstrate that he put Defendant on notice that the COVID
Vaccine Mandate conflicted with his bona fide religious belief prior to the
initiation of his disciplinary proceedings. 
(P-DSSF 10.)
          Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment of the 5th cause of action is granted.
 
          Failure to
Prevent Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (6th COA)
A
cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination includes the following
elements: (1) actionable discrimination or harassment by employees or
non-employees; (2) defendant’s legal duty of care toward plaintiff (defendant is plaintiff’s employer); (3)
breach of duty (failure to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
discrimination and harassment from occurring); (4) legal causation; and (5)
damages to plaintiff.  (Trujillo v.
North County Transit District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289.)
In
light of the fact that the 6th cause of action is derivative of Plaintiff’s 2nd
cause of action, and this Court has granted summary judgment of the 2nd cause
of action, it follows that Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted
as to the 6th cause of action.  (Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1021
[“An actionable claim under section 12940, subdivision (k) is dependent on a
claim of actual discrimination”]; Dickson v. Burke Williams
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1317 [stating there cannot be a valid claim for
failure to take reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination if the
necessary elements of a discrimination claim are not present].)
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment of the 6th cause of action is granted.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is granted. 
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  April
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  