  Case Number:  22STCV19655    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ESTHER LIM,  
  
         vs.
 
JAMGLE JAM
  USA, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV34320
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 11, 2024



 
Plaintiff
Esther Lim’s unopposed motion to enforce the Settlement Agreement entered
on September 20, 2023, set aside the dismissal entered on September 20, 2023,
and enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation for Entry of
Judgment executed between Plaintiff and Defendants Jamgle Jam USA, Inc. and
Rama McCabe on August 30, 2023, is granted.
 
Plaintiff
Esther Lim (“Lim”) (“Plaintiff”) moves unopposed for this Court to set
aside the judgment of dismissal entered on September 20, 2023, and enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation for Entry of Judgment
executed between Plaintiff  and
Defendants Jamgle Jam USA, Inc. (“Banks Journal”) and Rama McCabe (“McCabe”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) on August 30, 2023, on the grounds the parties
entered in a Settlement and General-Release-of-Claims Agreement (“Agreement”)
as to the claims asserted by Plaintiff and Defendants have failed to remit full
payment of the Settlement Amount to Plaintiff in the manner prescribed by the
Agreement.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1;
C.C.P. §664.6.)  The Court interprets the
principal thrust of Plaintiff’s motion to be one to enforce the Agreement
rather than one to set aside the judgment of dismissal.
 
Background
          On August 30, 2023, the Parties
executed an Agreement to settle the claims asserted by Plaintiff against
Defendants in the within action.  (Decl. of
Zelenski ¶2, Exh. 1.)  The Agreement
provides that Defendants shall pay the Settlement Amount called for by the
Agreement in sixteen separate installments, with each installment due
approximately every two weeks, starting on September 15, 2023. (Decl. of Zelenski
¶2, Exh. 1 at §1.5.)
On
September 8, 2023, this Court entered an Order to “retain jurisdiction over the
within action and the Parties for purposes of supervising, implementing,
enforcing, construing, administering, and interpreting the Agreement . . .
under California Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.”  (9/8/23 Stipulation.)  
Plaintiff
filed a Request for Dismissal on September 20, 2023, which was entered by the
Clerk that same day.  (9/20/23 Request
for Dismissal.)
Defendants
have failed to make the second installment payment, which was due on September
29, 2023, and no further payments under the Agreement have been issued to
Plaintiff.  (Decl. of Zelenski ¶4.)
Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on December 18, 2023. 
As of the date of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
Motion to Enforce Settlement
          C.C.P. §664.6 provides, as follows: “If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence
of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part
thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of
the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction
over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the
terms of the settlement.”
Plaintiff submitted evidence
Plaintiff and Defendants entered into the Agreement, which was signed by both
parties on August 20, 2023.  (Decl. of Zelenski ¶2,
Exh. 1.)  Pursuant to the terms
of the Agreement, 
In the event that any
of the contemplated sixteen installments is not made in full according to the
schedule set forth in [the Agreement], Banks Journal and McCabe shall have the
opportunity to cure the deficient installment by making the full missed
installment within five business days of notice having been provided as set
forth in section 3 of th[e] Agreement. In the event that any of the
installments is not duly delivered as set forth [in the Agreement], then Lim,
in her sole discretion, shall have the right, at any time prior to receipt of
the Settlement Amount in full, to extend the period of time for the Settlement
Amount to be paid, to enforce this Agreement, or to file the Stipulation for
Entry of Judgment attached [to the Agreement] as Exhibit A.  
 
(Decl. of Zelenski ¶2,
Exh. 1 at §1.6.)
Defendants failed to make the
second installment payment to Plaintiff, which was due on September 29, 2023.  (Decl. of Zelenski ¶4.) On October 5 and 6, 2023,
Defendants advised that they would not be remedying the deficient installment
payment, and no further payments whatsoever have been made to Plaintiff under
the Agreement.  (Decl. of Zelenski ¶4.)
Pursuant to the terms of the
settlement Plaintiff wishes to enforce, Plaintiff is entitled to an order (a)
setting aside the dismissal that was entered on September 20, 2023, and (b)
entering judgment pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation for Entry of
Judgment.  Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed motion
to enforce the Agreement is granted.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion to enforce the Settlement Agreement entered on August
20, 2023, and set aside the judgment of dismissal entered on September 20,
2023, is granted.  The Court hereby sets aside
the dismissal that was entered on September 20, 2023.  
The
Court will also enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation for
Entry of Judgment, but the Court wishes to discuss the judgment at the hearing
of this matter.  
 
Dated: 
April _____, 2024
                                                                             





  