 Case Number:  2STCV27975    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JYLA
  ELSA CORRAL, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
FORD
  MOTOR COMPANY, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV27975
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 11, 2024



 
Plaintiffs Jyla Elsa
Corral’s, Jonaven Hess Corral’s, Jazlyn Leilani Corral’s, Jayven Cali Corral’s,
and Jocelyn Gianna Corral’s, individually and as successors in interest to
Heather Susy Garcia, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem Rafael Corral’s unopposed
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint is granted.  Plaintiffs may file the proposed first
amended complaint with the Court.
 
          Plaintiffs
Jyla Elsa Corral, Jonaven Hess Corral, Jazlyn Leilani Corral, Jayven Cali
Corral, and Jocelyn Gianna Corral, individually and as successors in interest
to Heather Susy Garcia, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem Rafael Corral (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) move unopposed for and order granting
leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1.)
          
          Procedural
Background
          Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint on August 26, 2022, alleging three causes of action: (1)
negligence; (2) strict products liability; and (3) wrongful death, arising from
the death of their mother as a passenger in a van who fell out of the subject
vehicle when the vehicle’s front door failed. 
(See Complaint ¶¶3, 12-13.)
          Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on December 18, 2023. 
As of the date of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
          Motion for Leave to Amend
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (C.C.P.
§473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in
furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such
amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this
state since 1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d
486, 488-489.) 
CRC
Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional]
allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Plaintiffs’
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion
includes a copy of the proposed FAC.  (Decl. of Torres ¶9, Exh. 1.)   Plaintiffs’
motion sets forth the allegations proposed to be added and deleted, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number.  (Motion pgs. 4-5.) 
Plaintiffs’
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Plaintiffs submitted a separate declaration
of their counsel that specifies the effect of the amendments and explains why
the amendments are necessary and proper.  (Decl. of Torres ¶¶5, 8.)  Plaintiffs
asserts the amendments are necessary because they learned upon the filing of
various cross-complaints that Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation
was the entity which designed, manufactured and/or sole the defective door
system installed on the Subject Vehicle.  (Decl. of Torres ¶5.)  Plaintiffs asserts the proposed FAC does not
add any new causes of action but clarifies the allegations against Westinghouse
Air Brake Technologies Corporation as Doe 8.  (Motion, pg. 4.)
Plaintiff’s
counsel states when the facts giving rise of the amended allegations were
discovered and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Plaintiff’s counsel declares, “It was only
upon the filing of cross-complaints by various defendants in this action against
Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation in May and June 2023 that Plaintiffs
learned that Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation was the entity
which designed, manufactured and/or sole the defective door system installed on
the party van. As such Plaintiffs added Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies
Corporation as Doe 8 as October 5, 2023, and served it with the Summons and
Complaint on October 31, 2023.”  (Decl.
of Torres ¶5.) 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a FAC is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Plaintiffs’
unopposed motion for leave to amend its Complaint is granted.  Plaintiffs are to file the proposed FAC with
the Court within 7 days of this order.
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  April _____, 2024
                                                                             





  