  Case Number:  22AHCV00898    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DIMERCO EXPRESS USA CORP., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CONCORD
   DISPLAYS, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00898
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 21,
  2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiff Dimerco Express USA Corp.
(“Plaintiff”) requests a default judgment against defendant Concord Displays,
LLC (“Defendant”) in the amount of $24,630.97 for a common count. Plaintiff
filed a notice of settlement on February 21, 2023, but on August 16, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a default package. As part of that package, Plaintiff’s counsel
declares that the parties engaged in settlement discussions and that Defendant made
payments to Plaintiff from January 16, 2023, to June 19, 2023, but stopped. (Hattena
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) It is unclear from Plaintiff’s filings whether a settlement
agreement was actually entered into and whether a default judgment is
appropriate. If there is in fact a settlement agreement and Plaintiff has
settled its claims asserted against Defendant in this action, it is unclear why
Plaintiff is pursuing a default judgment against Defendant instead of filing a
new action for breach of contract. It is possible that the settlement agreement
may have provided that the court would retain jurisdiction for its enforcement
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, in which case a motion to
enter a stipulated judgment would be the appropriate mechanism for entering
judgment. However, it is impossible to tell from the papers whether this is the
case. 
Accordingly, the hearing is CONTINUED
to July 10, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., so that Plaintiff can explain whether a
settlement agreement was executed and if so, whether the parties agreed in
writing for the Court to enter a stipulated judgment. Plaintiff’s declaration
must be filed no later than 5 court days before the date of the hearing. 
 
Dated
this 21st
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 