 Case Number:  EC066531    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



UNI-GLORY DEVELOPMENT, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FAIRVIEW
   EAST LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  EC066531
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPONENA TO EAST WEST BANK

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 21,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On April 2, 2024,
defendant/cross-complainant Fairview East LLC (“Fairview East”) filed this
motion to quash a deposition subpoena issued by plaintiff/cross-defendant
Uni-Glory Development, Inc. (“Uni-Glory”) to nonparty East West Bank. Uni-Glory
filed an opposition brief on May 8, 2024. Fairview East filed a reply brief on
May 14, 2024. 
Both Fairview East and Uni-Glory cite
to Shrewsbury v. Superior Court (2019), 32 Cal.App.5th 1213, in which
the appellate court reversed a trial court’s order denying a judgment
creditor’s motion to compel a third party’s compliance with a subpoena duces
tecum for bank records. Fairview East argues that the deposition subpoena is
not authorized for use in post-judgment proceedings and the subpoena must be
quashed because the Shrewsbury court noted in dicta that “the
Enforcement of Judgments Law does not appear to authorize the use of deposition
subpoenas” for examinations in the post judgment process. (Id., p. 1225,
n.3.) Fairview East also objects that Uni-Glory’s deposition subpoena for
business records scheduled a production date of April 10, 2024, which is two
months before the examination of East West Bank and therefore not “tethered” to
the examination as required by Shrewsbury. (Id., at p. 1228.)  
In opposition, Uni-Glory argues that
the Shrewsbury court only considered whether a subpoena duces tecum of a
third party could be issued in connection with an examination of a judgment
creditor under CCP section 708.110, instead of being limited to an examination
of that third party itself. The Shrewsbury court also determined that
the scope of discoverable documents must be “broadly construed to include
matters relating to the ‘property and business affairs of the judgment debtor.’”
(Shrewsbury at p. 1228.) Uni-Glory argues that there is no practical
difference between a subpoena duces tecum and a deposition subpoena for
business records, which is evidenced by the fact that Fairview East does not
object to the type of records produced, and Uni-Glory argues that its
deposition subpoena was issued so that Uni-Glory could adequately prepare for
its examination of East West Bank scheduled for June 7, 2024. Uni-Glory also
contends that Fairview East’s motion to quash is an attempt to hide assets and
prevent collection on its judgment. 
While Uni-Glory characterizes Fairview
East’s motion as emphasizing a distinction without a difference, the Court
cannot conclude the same. First, Shrewsbury did not involve a deposition
subpoena, but a subpoena duces tecum. Furthermore, Uni-Glory cites to Lee v.
Swansboro Country Property Owners Assn. (2007),151 Cal.App.575, as
authority for the use of a business records subpoena in connection with debtor
examinations. But Lee involved the subpoena of a debtor, not a third
party. Furthermore, the Lee court cited to a practice treatise which
stated, “Thus, as far as practicable, counsel should investigate the debtor's
assets and subpoena any documents showing ownership ... into court at the time
of examination.” (Id. at p. 582 [citing 2 Debt Collection Practice in
Cal. (Cont.Ed.Bar 2d ed. 2006) The Debtor's Property, § 8.31, p. 556].) Therefore,
Lee approved of subpoenaing documents “into court at the time of
examination”, which is different from a “deposition subpoena”, which requests
the production of documents outside court at an earlier time, as objected to by
Fairview East. That is not a meaningless distinction.
Accordingly, Fairview East’s motion to
quash is GRANTED. The Court also grants Fairview East’s request for sanctions,
albeit in a reduced amount, as discussed below. Although Uni-Glory may have
honestly believed that there was no practical difference between its deposition
subpoena for business records and a subpoena duces tecum, and the Court is
sympathetic with Uni-Glory’s desire to prepare ahead of time for its
examination of East West Bank, Uni-Glory’s position is unsupported by any of the
case law it cites. 
Fairview East requests sanctions in the
amount of $5,097.50 for this motion. Fairview East’s counsel declares that his
hourly rate of $775 is reasonable and that he spent 1.2 hours conducting legal
research for the motion, 4.2 hours drafting the motion, and 1.2 hours drafting
his omnibus supporting declaration; additionally, the motion required a $60
filing fee. Given the straightforward nature of the law (as evidenced by the
amount of time spent on research), defense counsel’s extensive experience, and
the omnibus nature of this declaration, 6.5 hours to prepare this motion
appears excessive. Therefore, the Court imposes sanctions against Uni-Glory in
the reduced amount of $4,245, consisting of 5.4 hours at counsel’s hourly rate
of $775, plus a $60 filing fee, payable within 10 days of the date of this
order. 
 
Dated
this 21st
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 