 Case Number:  21STCV37338    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’ Motion for Protective Order 
 
Tentative
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Background 
 
On October
8, 2021, Plaintiffs Rolando Enrique Restrepo and Nina Restrepo (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Geoffrey Thomas Craighead
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50, inclusive, asserting causes of action for
(1) auto negligence and (2) loss of consortium. Plaintiffs allege that on August
17, 2019, Plaintiff Enrique Restrepo suffered severe bodily injuries when
Defendant’s vehicle struck the plaintiff’s motorcycle and caused him to be
ejected and fall on the road. (Compl., ¶¶ 9-13.) 
 
On December 15, 2023, Defendant served his expert witness designation,
identifying six retained experts and ten non-retained experts.  (Abkarian Decl., ¶ 5 & Exh. C.)  Plaintiffs contend that Defendant has improperly
designated two expert neurologists (Dr. Christopher P. O’Carroll and Dr.
Courney C.J. Voelker) whose testimony would be cumulative and duplicative.  
 
On January
26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for a protective order.  On April 25, 2024, Defendant filed his
opposition to the motion. No reply has been filed. 
 
Trial is
scheduled for June 3, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A party who has
been served with a demand to exchange information concerning expert trial
witnesses may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.250, subd. (a).)
 
“The court, for
good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party
from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and
expense. The protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more
of the following directions:
 
(1) 
That
the demand be quashed because it was not timely served.
(2) 
That
the date of exchange be earlier or later than that specified in the demand.
(3) 
That
the exchange be made only on specified terms and conditions.
(4) 
That
the production and exchange of any reports and writings of experts be made at a
different place or at a different time than specified in the demand.
(5) 
That
some or all of the parties be divided into sides on the basis of their identity
of interest in the issues in the action, and that the designation of any
experts as described in subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210 be made by any side
so created.
(6) 
That a
party or a side reduce the list of employed or retained experts designated by
that party or side under subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2034.250, subd. (b).)
 
“If the motion for
a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the court may order that the
parties against whom the motion is brought, provide or permit the discovery
against which the protection was sought on those terms and conditions that are
just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.250, subd. (c).)
 
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.250, subd. (d).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs move for a
protective order under Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.250, subdivision
(b)(6), arguing that Defendant has designated two neurologists to serve as
expert witnesses; that, according to defense counsel’s declaration, the two neurologists
will be testifying regarding the same subject matter; and (3) that therefore the
neurologists’ expert opinion testimony will be improperly cumulative and
duplicative. 
 
Defendant does not need two
experts to provide one opinion, but the issue of potentially duplicative or
cumulative testimony is best addressed by the trial judge – and in cases in the
Personal Injury Hub, the judge currently assigned to the case is not the trial
judge.  Accordingly, the motion is denied
without prejudice to this issue being raised and addressed by the trial judge,
either through a motion in limine or any other appropriate motion, application,
or objection.
 
Finally, the Court notes that
this case does not involve the risk of undue burden or expense associated with
deposing unnecessary or duplicative experts; Plaintiffs have stipulated to
waive deposition of Defendant’s experts. 
(Mendoza Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Conclusion
Plaintiffs’
motion for a protective order is denied without prejudice.
 
Moving
party to give notice.