 Case Number:  22STCV21034    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Demurrer and Motion to Strike filed by Defendants Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Andrew Peterson. 
 
Tentative
The
demurrer is overruled.
The
motion to strike is granted in part (with leave to amend) and denied in part.
Background
On June 28, 2022, Maria Yolanda Nieto (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“MTA”), Andrew Peterson (“Peterson”), Hermanto Ng (“Ng”), and Does 1 through
25.  Plaintiff alleges that on August 28, 2021, she was a passenger
on an MTA bus driven by Peterson that was involved in an accident with an
automobile driven by Ng, causing Plaintiff to sustain injuries.  
On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) as Doe 1.
Uber and Ng filed answers to the complaint on December 4 and 7,
2023.  MTA filed a demurrer and motion to strike.  Although
there was some ambiguity in MTA’s demurrer, the Court ruled that MTA demurred
only to the First Cause of Action in the complaint (for motor vehicle
negligence).  The Court sustained MTA’s demurrer, denied the motion
to strike as moot, and granted Plaintiff leave to amend.
On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(the “FAC”).  In the First Cause of Action in the FAC, for motor
vehicle negligence, Plaintiff alleges (among other things) that MTA is
vicariously liable for the negligence of its employee (Peterson) under
Government Code section 815.2.  In the Second Cause of Action in the
FAC, Plaintiff alleges (just as she did in her initial complaint) a general
negligence cause of action against MTA and Peterson.
Uber and Ng filed answers to the FAC on February 26 and 28.
On February 26, MTA and Peterson (collectively, “Defendants”)
filed a demurrer and motion to strike.  Plaintiff filed oppositions
on March 5, and Defendants filed replies on April 5.
On April 12, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike so that the parties could
satisfy the statutory meet and confer requirements.  Pursuant to the joint statement filed on May
2, they have now done so.
 
Legal
Standard
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's pleading
(complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the
function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and
for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.)  
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116
Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].)  
A demurrer address whether the “face
of the complaint” itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar
recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of the complaint” includes material
contained in attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the
complaint; or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v.
Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and
accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the
pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]).  
A demurrer can be sustained only when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev.
Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 435, “Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
435, subd. (b)(1).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 436 provides as
follows:
“The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper:
 (a) Strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
 (b) Strike out
all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws
of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  In ruling
on a motion to strike, the court must assume the truth of the properly pleaded
facts in the complaint or other pleading. (Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
Discussion
Demurrer 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (b), “A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended
after a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not
demur to any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on
grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the
complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.”
The demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is
barred by the express provisions of section 430.41, subdivision (b).  The previous demurrer (to the initial
complaint) challenged only the First Cause of Action, not the Second Cause of
Action.  The demurrer was sustained,
Plaintiff amended (but did not modify the Second Cause of Action), and now
defendants demur “on grounds that could have been raised by the demurrer to the
earlier version of the complaint.”
Accordingly, for this procedural reason, the
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED.  
Motion to Strike
In the First
Cause of Action, Defendant moves to strike “Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority,”
“Andrew Peterson,” and certain allegations regarding negligent hiring,
supervision, and training.
In California, liability
of public entities such as MTA must be established by statute; there is no common
law liability.  (Gov. Code, § 815.)  One such statute establishing liability for
public entities is Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a), which states:
A public entity is liable for
injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public
entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart
from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee
or his personal representative.
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that Peterson, while driving a bus within the scope of his employment
with MTA, proximate caused an injury to Plaintiff through his negligence.  That is a sufficient basis to assert a cause
of action against Peterson for motor vehicle negligence and a sufficient basis
to assert a cause of action against MTA for liability under Government Code
section 815.2.  
Accordingly, the
motion to strike “Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority” and “Andrew
Peterson” from the First Cause of Action is DENIED.
Plaintiff also includes,
in the First Cause of Action, on pages 5 and 6, an entire paragraph (beginning
with “Further, LACMTA, Provider of bus transportation” and concluding with “Plaintiff’s
injuries and damages”) alleging that MTA did not properly hire, train, or
supervise Peterson.  Plaintiff offers no
statutory basis for a claim against MTA (or any other public entity) for
negligent hiring, training, or supervision. 
As there is no statutory basis for this claim, the motion to strike this
portion of the First Cause of Action is GRANTED.
This is not a
mere pleading defect; there is a statutory bar to a common law cause of action
of this nature against a public entity.  Nonetheless,
the standard for leave to amend is very liberal, this is the first time that the
Court has stricken this provision, and Plaintiff seeks leave to amend.  Accordingly, the motion to strike is granted
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Conclusion
The Court OVERRULES
the demurrer. 
The Court GRANTS
in part and DENIES in part the motion to strike.
The Court GRANTS
Defendants’ motion to strike the paragraph that appears on pages 5 and 6 of the
FAC (beginning with “Further, LACMTA, Provider of bus transportation” and
concluding with “Plaintiff’s injuries and damages”).  
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff LEAVE TO AMEND within 21 days of notice.
The Court
otherwise DENIES the motion to strike.
Moving Party is
to give notice. 