  Case Number:  20STCV09528    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion
for Relief from Waiver of Jury Trial 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On March 6, 2020, Arturio Denise Halloway (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against City of Compton (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 100
for damages arising from a trip and fall on October 1, 2018.  Defendant filed its answer on May 25, 2021. 
On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed notice of posting jury
fees.
On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application
for relief from waiver of jury trial. 
The Court set the matter for hearing on May 6, with the Court treating
the ex parte application as the moving papers and Defendant given until May 2
to file an opposition.  Defendant filed
its opposition on May 2, 2024.
Legal Standard
“Trial by jury is an inviolate right and
shall be secured to all.”  (Cal. Const.,
art. I, § 16.)  “In a civil cause a jury
may be waived by the consent of the parties expressed as prescribed by statute.”  (Ibid.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 631 is the
primary statute addressing waiver of a jury trial in a civil case.  Under section 631, subdivision(f)(5), a party
waives their right to a jury trial by not timely posting jury fees. Jury fees
must be paid “on or before the date scheduled for the initial case management
conference in the action”; where there is no case management conference, the
fees are due “no later than 365 calendar days after the filing of the initial
complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 631, subd. (c) & (c)(2).)
“The court may, in its discretion upon just
terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial
by jury.” (Id., subd. (g).) 
The California Supreme Court recently
addressed the exercise of this discretion in TriCoast Builders, Inc. v.
Fonnegra (2024) 15 Cal.5th 766.  In
ruling on a request for relief from waiver of jury trial:
“[T]he primary consideration is … whether
granting relief from waiver would result in any hardship to other parties or to
the court, such as delay in rescheduling the trial for a jury or inconvenience
to witnesses.  But courts have also
regularly considered other factors, including the timeliness of the request;
whether the requester is willing to comply with applicable requirements for
payment of jury fees; and the reasons supporting the request.”
(15 Cal.5th at pp. 779-780.)  “[T]he presence or absence of hardship is not
always dispositive,” and the court may, in its discretion, also consider (among
other things) whether the motion for relief from waiver “simply reflects a
belated change of heart about trial tactics” or is being used as a “pretext” to
obtain a continuance.  (Id., at p.
780.)  But when a party “has timely given
notice that it desires trial by jury” but then loses that right by nonpayment
of fees, “lack of hardship to the other parties or the court is generally
controlling, absent other factors that weigh against relief.”  (Id., at p. 782.)
In ruling on request from relief from waiver
under section 631, subdivision (g), “courts are mindful of the requirement ‘to
resolve doubts in interpreting the waiver provisions of section 631 in favor of
a litigant's right to jury trial.’” (Tesoro del Valle Master Homeowners
Assn. v. Griffin (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638, quoting Grafton
Partners v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 956.) 
Discussion
As Plaintiff’s counsel concedes, Plaintiff waived
the right to a jury trial by not timely posting jury fees.  (Narian Decl., ¶ 6.)  Based on that undisputed fact, the parties
make diverging arguments.
As an initial matter, to the extent that each
side is taking an extreme position (and, to be fair, apart from some of the
language in the briefs, it is unclear whether either side is really doing so),
the Court rejects these extremes.  This is
a matter that the Legislature has entrusted to the discretion of the Court: on
these facts, the Court is not under a mandatory obligation to grant the motion
or to deny the motion.
Although it is not clear, the inference that
the Court draws from the evidence in the record, including the declaration of
Plaintiff’s counsel, is that the failure to post jury fees was inadvertent.  The length of the delay in posting fees is
quite substantial, but there is no indication that this was a deliberate
tactical decision, that Plaintiff is having a belated change of heart, or that
this is a pretext for a continuance.  Inadvertence
is a factor that weighs in support of granting the motion. 
Although the presence or absence of prejudice
is not independently dispositive, the Court notes that Defendant’s arguments in
opposition to the motion do not establish any undue or unfair prejudice.  Contentions about the merits or venue (Opp.
at p. 4) do not relate to prejudice from delay in timely securing a jury trial
through posting of fees.  It is true that
a jury trial is likely to increase costs and extend trial (ibid.), but
that is true regardless of whether the right to jury is properly secured
through timely posting of fees.  The
Court agrees with Defendant that it timely objected to the posting of the fees
(fees were posted on April 15, 2024, and an objection was filed a few hours
later), but the timely objection does not, in itself, establish and support an
inference of prejudice.
In sum, the Court finds that Plaintiff did
not timely post jury fees; that in doing so, Plaintiff waived the right to jury
trial; that this waiver was inadvertent; and that Defendant would not sustain
any undue or unfair prejudice from a court order granting relief from waiver.
After considering all of the evidence in the
record and the arguments from both sides, the Court exercises its discretion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 631, subdivision (g), to grant relief from
waiver and to allow a trial by jury.
The motion is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver of jury trial.
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.