  Case Number:  23STCV20363    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint
 
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint is granted.
                                                                                 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Joseph Cohen and Janet Cohen, filed this action against Mendy Ezagui and Mayta Malamud
(“Defendants”), alleging that Defendants
breached the lease agreement they had with Plaintiffs by failing to pay rent
for the years 2020, 2021, and 2022 for the property located at 1115 S.
Sherbourne (“Property”). Defendants’ Cross-Complaint alleges claims related to
habitability issues with the Property.
The motion now before the Court is Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint.

 
LEGAL STANDARD
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading
or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to
be made after the time limited by this code.”
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit.” Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047. Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of
the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for
a demurrer or motion to strike are premature. The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by
further amendment. See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco
v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
A motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional
allegations are located. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a). 
A separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
Additionally, if the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has
discretion to deny leave to amend. Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490. Prejudice exists where the amendment would require
delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendants seek to add an eighth cause of action to their
Cross-Complaint for Declaratory Relief, establishing the parties' respective
rights to attorney’s fees under the lease. 
Defendants intend to seek summary adjudication of this claim in the
hopes of helping the parties understand the relative value of their cases and
potentially facilitate settlement.  
Contents of Motion
Defendants have included, with their motion, a copy of the
proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint. Declaration of Joshua Greer ¶ 4, Ex A. Defendants
state that no allegations are changed or deleted and that the additional cause
of action for declaratory relief is to be added at paragraphs 99-114. Motion at
p. 5:22-23; Greer Decl. ¶ 3. The motion, therefore, complies with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).
 
Supporting Declaration 
The declaration of Joshua Greer, Defendants counsel, states
that the effect of the proposed amendment does not change or delete any
allegations, but only adds an eighth cause of action for declaratory relief,
seeking to clarify the parties' rights for attorney’s fees under the
lease.  Greer Decl. ¶¶ 2-3. The
declaration identifies why the amendment is necessary and proper, because it
“is likely to facilitate more fruitful settlement discussion in the coming
months.” Greer Decl. ¶ 5. Finally, the declaration explains that the amendment
was not made earlier because the parties were previously unaware of their
dispute regarding the proper interpretation of the lease agreement. Greer Decl.
¶ 6. Accordingly, Defendants have complied with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b).
Plaintiff’s Opposition
In opposition, Plaintiffs claim that leave to amend should
not be permitted because Defendants unreasonably delayed in seeking leave. According
to Plaintiffs, Defendants have been aware of the disputed interpretations of
the attorney fee provision since a conversation between counsel in
the fall of 2023. Declaration of Jonathan Kintzele ¶ 7. In a reply
declaration, attorney Greer reasserts that the need for declaratory relief only
became apparent following mediation but does not deny the earlier conversation
regarding limits on the attorney’s fees. Greer Reply Decl. at ¶ 8. Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendants engaged in a delay in seeking leave to
amend.  
Plaintiffs further argue that the proposed amendment
prejudices them because they have already conducted significant discovery and
depositions, and the amendment will require them to incur additional fees and
costs for the defense and investigation of the cause of action. Opposition at p.
5:10-14. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. The proposed amendment
contains no new factual allegations necessitating additional discovery or
investigation, merely a straightforward issue of contract interpretation. Moreover,
both parties requested attorney’s fees in their operative complaints, and Plaintiffs
have been aware of their differing interpretations of the lease attorney fee provision
for over a year. Kintzele Decl. ¶ 7. The proposed amendment only changes when
the interpretation is resolved, before rather than after trial. Accordingly, the
Court finds that, even if Defendants delayed in seeking amendment, Plaintiffs
are not prejudiced by adding the claim for declaratory relief regarding the
parties' rights to attorney’s fees.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ Motion for Leave
to File First Amended Cross-Complaint is granted. Defendants shall file
and serve the FACC within 10 days of this order. 