  Case Number:  23TRCV00121    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Wednesday, April 24, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Briana
Flowers, et al. v. Lashawna Nadreau, et al.   
23TRCV00121
1.     
Lashawna
Nadreau’s Motion to Compel Briana Flowers’ Responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions
2.     
Lashawna
Nadreau’s Motion to Compel Briana Flowers’ Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions
3.     
Lashawna
Nadreau’s Motion to Compel Briana Flowers’ Responses to Demand for Inspection
and Production of Documents, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions
4.     
Lashawna
Nadreau’s Motion to Compel Brianna Hollens’ Responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One and for Monetary Sanctions
5.     
Lashawna
Nadreau’s Motion to Compel Brianna Hollens’ Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions
6.     
Lashawna
Nadreau’s Motion to Compel Brianna Hollens’ Responses to Demand for Inspection
and Production of Documents, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Lashawna Nadreau’s Motions to Compel Briana Flowers’
and Brianna Hollens’ Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set
One, and for Monetary Sanctions are granted, in part, and denied, in part. 
 
The Court notes that no notice was provided of the
hearing date of April 24, 2024. Thus, the tentative ruling is conditioned upon
all parties waiving the defect in notice.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on January 13, 2023. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs were involved in a motor vehicle
accident with Defendant.  
 
Motions to
Compel
 
CCP § 2030.290 states: “If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply…The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  
 
CCP § 2031.300 states: “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(b)).
 
Defendant served upon Plaintiffs Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Inspection and Production
of Documents, Set One, on September 21, 2023. (Decls., Adam A. Chavez, ¶¶ 5-9.)
 Defendant contends that no responses
were served to the requests. (Id.) Plaintiffs failed to file any written
oppositions to the motions.
 
Therefore, the motions to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for
Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, are granted. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to serve responses without
objections within 10 days of this date. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant’s requests for monetary sanctions are denied.
Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 states, in relevant part: “A request for a sanction
shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.” 
 
Here, the notices of the motions failed to identify
every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanctions are sought and
failed to specify the type of sanctions sought.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.