  Case Number:  20STCV09554    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  8  TENTATIVE RULING     HEARING DATE:  November 2, 2023CASE NUMBER:  20STCV09554 CASE NAME:     Maria Lopez; Martin Gonzalez v. Matrix Service, Inc., et al.      MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Matrix Service, Inc. RESPONDING PARTY: Non-Party, State of California, acting by and through the Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Occupational Safety and Health (“Cal-OSHA”) (No Opposition)  TRIAL DATE:  May 6, 2024 MOTION:  (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One. (2) Request for Sanctions  Tentative Rulings:  (1) Motion to Compel is GRANTED as to inspection only.  The Court’s tentative ruling is to DENY the request for off-site potentially destructive testing.  The Court may need oral argument to address several points as to the 9 categories of requested off-site and potentially destructive testing:  (a) have other parties previously performed off-site or on-site testing of the components held by Cal-OSHA, and if so why is the result of such testing insufficient for Matrix?  (b) why can’t Matrix’ experts bring testing equipment to the Cal-OSHA site rather than bringing all this evidence to an off-site laboratory?  (c) does any party, Matrix included, have any information as to why Cal-OSHA might need to continue retention of the components that are the subject of this Motion over 4 years after the incident?   (d) If the Court were to reverse its tentative and allow off-site testing of some or all of the 9 items requested, would Matrix agree to videotape the performance of the tests and preserve an audio/ video record of the testing and any destruction of the evidence for Cal-OSHA or a litigant’s future use, keeping a chain-of-custody log from the time of evidence pickup through the time of return of the evidence to Cal-OSHA?   (e)  If the Court permits Matrix to remove the evidence and perform the requested testing, would Matrix stipulate to giving Cal-OSHA and its counsel a minimum of 7 court days’ advance notice of the date or dates it plans to have the testing performed, as well as a precise location of the testing lab?  (2) Defendants’ Request for Sanctions is DENIED 
   I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn Mrch 6, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against Defendants, Matrix Service, Inc, Brandon K. Austin, PBF Energy limited, Christian Martin Gonzalez, a nominal defendant and a minor, through Sonia Jasmin Soto, his guardian. Defendant, Torrance Refining Company, LLC (“TORC”) was also added to the FAC. On May 8, 2020, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff’s FAC states causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Strict Products Liability; and (3) Professional Negligence. Plaintiffs allege that this action arises from an incident that occurred on July 11, 2019 at an oil refinery facility in Torrance, California. Plaintiffs’ son, decedent Gamaliel Gonzalez, was a part of an oil-tank repair crew performing welding activities and repairs to an oil tank. Decedent’s employer hired several outside companies to design, manufacture, produce, and deliver a large, heavy duty jack stand that was to be used by decedent and his crew. The jack stand allegedly malfunctioned and exploded and Plaintiffs’ decedent was killed.  Matrix asserts that in discovery, it determined that the tangible evidence relating to the Subject Incident resides in the possession of non-party, Cal-OSHA. Matrix asserts such evidence includes the subject jack stand that allegedly failed (as well as any pieces associated therewith), a similarly manufactured jack stand in use that did not fail, the inflatable airbags, the Deadman controller, and all air hose end fittings and other parts and connectors associated with the air bags. Based on this information, Matrix asserts it served Cal-OSHA with a subpoena seeking to conduct “a visual and photographic inspection, functional testing and analysis, failure testing and analysis, and metallurgical testing and analysis” of the Subject Tangible Evidence. However, to date, Matrix asserts Cal-OSHA has refused to release the Subject Tangible Evidence for such purposes.   As such, Matrix now brings this Motion to Compel Production, Inspection and Testing of Tangible Things and Request for Monetary Sanctions.   
B. Procedural

On October 3, 2023, Matrix filed this Motion. To date, no opposition has been filed.   II. ANALYSISLegal Standard  If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. (CCP § 1987.1(a).) A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).)¿A motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)"The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 

Discussion  Here, Matrix seeks to compel Cal-OSHA, a non-party, to produce for inspection and testing of tangible things the following items for performance of the following tests:   Air Bags (Functional Test): A functional test of the airbags will entail cycling up the airbags to moderately low pressure to ensure its ability to properly inflate. The functional test of the air bags has the potential of being destructive and must be conducted at an outside independent laboratory.  Air Bags (Proof Test): A proof test of the airbags will entail pressurizing the airbags to maximum pressurization capacity, if the airbags have passed the functional test and it is safe to conduct the proof test. The proof test of the air bags has the potential of being destructive and must be conducted at an outside independent laboratory.  Jack Stands (Deformation Measurement and Test): A deformation measurement and test would entail taking measurements of existing deformations to the jack stands and load testing the jack stands to determine the necessary load to replicate the observed deformations. The deformation measurement and test are potentially destructive. Moreover, in order to conduct the deformation measurement and test of the metal used to construct the jack stands (both the jack stand that broke and the one that did not), the jack stands will need to be taken to an outside independent laboratory.  Hitch Ball (Metallurgical Tests): The metallurgical tests of the hitch ball will entail microscopy, cross-sectional analysis, hardness testing, and chemical testing. The metallurgical tests of the hitch ball are destructive tests and, to be conducted, the hitch ball must be taken to an outside independent laboratory.  Hitch Ball (Mechanical Test): A mechanical test of the hitch ball entails cutting off a piece of the hitch ball to perform a tensile test. The mechanical test of the hitch ball is a destructive test and, to be conducted, the hitch ball must be taken to an outside independent laboratory.  Air Hose End Fittings (Metallurgical Tests): The metallurgical tests of the air hose end fittings will entail microscopy, cross-sectional analysis, hardness testing, and chemical testing. The metallurgical tests of the air hose end fittings are destructive tests and, to be conducted, the air hose end fittings must be taken to an outside independent laboratory.  Air Hose End Fittings (Mechanical Test): A mechanical test of the air hose end fittings entails cutting off a piece of the air hose end fittings to perform a tensile test. The mechanical test of the air hose end fittings is a destructive test and, to be conducted, the air hose end fittings must be taken to an outside independent laboratory.  Deadman Controller (Functional Test): A functional test of the Deadman controller entails exercising all of the controls, verifying function, and properly holding and releasing pressure. The functional test of the Deadman controller must be conducted at an outside independent laboratory.  Deadman Controller (Calibration Test): A calibration test of the Deadman controller entails testing the pressure gauge on the Deadman controlled for accuracy. The calibration test of the Deadman controller must be conducted at an outside independent laboratory.  In this case, Plaintiff is alleging that Matrix defectively designed and manufactured the jack stand being utilized at the time of the Subject Incident that came apart and struck the Decedent and have brought claims against Matrix for negligence, strict product liability and breach of warranties. As such, Matrix argues that it must be able to inspect and test the other tangible evidence in use at the time of the Incident to determine if other products played a causal factor in the occurrence of the Subject Incident.   Although no opposition was filed, Matrix notes that Cal-OSHA objected, not to the inspection of the tangible evidence, but to the testing of the evidence as it may alter or destroy the Subject Tangible Evidence and refusal to have the Subject Tangible Evidence taken from Cal-OSHA’s control. The Court shares the concern that the requested 9 items of off-site testing of the evidence held by Cal-OSHA could destroy such evidence, but because Cal-OSHA did not submit any declaration or brief in opposition, it is unclear as to why Cal-OSHA still may require the instrumentalities over four years after the incident.   The Court is confused as to how Matrix would test the tangible evidence when other parties and tehri experts have previously accessed and inspected the instrumentalities and possibly have already affected or altered the evidence.   As such, the Court requests further explanation via oral argument as to why it needs to perform destruction testing with the Cal-OSHA tangible evidence, and why that testing must be done at an off-site laboratory, instead of merely inspecting it. Matrix should also be prepared to explain why, since Matrix designed and manufactured the items, it could not gain sufficient information from the and inspection and then use similar or exemplar models to perform the off-site, potentially destructive testing.   Preliminarily, the Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT this motion as to inspection only, and DENY the motion as to destructive testing pending oral argument.   Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c), 2030.300(d),2031.300(c), and 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.)

Here, Matrix seeks $2,100 in sanctions. However, there appears to be substantial justification for Cal-OSHA to object to the removal of the subject instrumentalities form its care, custody and control.   