 Case Number:  21TRCV00073    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 2, 2023¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21TRCV00073
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Iman Peykar v. BMW of North America, LLC,
et al  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Iman Peykar 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, BMW of North America, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        December 4, 2023
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1)  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two is GRANTED in part
and DENIED in part, consistent with the guidance the Court gave the parties a
month ago in its October 2, 2023 Tentative Ruling. The further production and
verified further written response will be due within 21 days, i.e., before Thanksgiving,
but if that is not realistic the Court will consider a longer time period
conditioned on the postponement of the trial so Plaintiff and his experts can
have a fair opportunity to consider the evidence in preparation for trial.
                                                (2)
Monetary sanctions are denied, without prejudice to being claimed as part of a
package of reasonable attorneys’ fees should plaintiff be the prevailing party
at trial
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Plaintiff Iman Peykar (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant BMW of North America, LLC (“Defendant”) on February 2, 2021. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2; and (4)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.22 – Tanner Consumer Protection Act. 
 
This case has been before the Court on multiple occasions
in the last 12 months, nearly all of which have been discovery-related.  The Court’s prior orders in this case have
embraced the Legislature’s public policy decision to allow discovery broadly as
long as it is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of evidence that
may be admissible in this case.  This
motion, however, makes it more clear to the Court why there has been an
abundance of friction between the parties on responses to discovery, abundant
even for Lemon Law litigation whose discovery phase often can take on a life of
its own.
 
On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff propounded his second set of
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two on Defendant seeking documents
relating to: (1) Defendant’s policies and procedures that pertain to service,
warranty, repurchase, requests, or documents that relate to the alleged defects
in the Subject Vehicle. Moreover, Plaintiff contends it also sought Defendant’s
recall policy and procedures, Defendant’s retention policy pertaining to
electronic data communications, and Defendant’s policies and procedures related
to Defendant’s buyback reduction goals. Lastly, Plaintiff notes the requests
sought documents regarding other similarly situated vehicles with the same
and/or similar defects in other vehicles similarly situated as the Subject
Vehicle – more specifically, Plaintiff notes he is seeking electronically
stored information (“ESI”) and internal investigation pertaining to the same or
similar defects that have plagued the Subject Vehicle. 
 
Plaintiff notes that on July 10, 2023, Defendant provided
responses to the RFP’s, but that said responses contained “boilerplate”
objections that are not Code-compliant and no document production. On July 19,
2023, Plaintiff notes Defendant provided verifications to the RFPs. However,
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant failed to provide any of the documents
requested. More specifically, Plaintiff contends that Defendant refused to
produce the relevant and necessary documents and responded with boilerplate objections
to the following Requests for Production of Documents: 4, 6, 8, 10-55.
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.
On September 18, 2023 BMW filed an opposition. On September 25 2023, Plaintiff
filed a reply brief. 
 
On October 2, 2023, the Court issued a tentative ruling foreshadowing
how it might rule on this motion, and noting the difficulties presented by the parties
in submitting Separate Statements several hundred pages long.  
 
On October 27, 2023, Defendant filed an amended separate
statement per the Court’s Order on the prior hearing for this motion.   
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
The parties are well aware of the permissible scope of discovery.  They seem to have forgotten that in this case.  
 
B. Discussion 
 
            RFP 4  - DENIED. 
This close to trial, in a case where is there is no assertion of a duty
to recall the subject vehicle, the recall policy of BMW is not “reasonably”
calculated to lead to admissible evidence. 

 
            RFP 6 -  DENIED. 
With no evidence presented to the Court that there has been a failure to
maintain a document bearing on BMW’s decision as to whether the subject vehicle
should or should not have been bought back, and after Plaintiff has deposed BMW
PMK on multiple categories, the document retention policy is not “reasonably”
calculated to lead to admissible evidence. 

 
RFP 8 – GRANTED, but only as to the documents BMW used to evaluate
THIS customer’s request for repurchase. 
As to what documents BMW typically or customarily uses to evaluate a
buyback request, that topic should have been the subject of the PMK
deposition.   
 
            RFP 10-33 – DENIED EXCEPT AS TO
BMW’s Agreement (“consistent with
the Court’s guidance”) to provide
the responsive documents regarding the symptoms actually experienced by
Plaintiff with regard to the Subject Vehicle, which must be produced (if they
have not already been) with a verified further written response within 21 days.  BMW’s agreement to provide a further response
generally uses the word “reports” as opposed to the collection of other documents
the Plaintiff seeks, so the Court invites Plaintiff’s counsel to select an
exemplary discovery request where BMW agreed to produce “reports” so this sub-issue
can be discussed and decided upon.  
 
The defined term “Engine Defects” is unreasonably and overly broad, and
unduly burdensome, resulting in a multiply compound definition and vagueness
when the “other similar concerns” language is included and resulting in a
request for documents that would not be reasonably calculated to lead to evidence
that might be admissible in this trial a mere 4 weeks from now.   Had Plaintiff
limited the definition to illumination of a check engine light, the definition
would still be unduly burdensome and unreasonably overly broad given the dozens
of different repair issues that may cause a check engine light to become
illuminated, rather than the issues that actually existed in the subject
vehicle.  Similarly, the inclusion of the
phrase “defects resulting in a lack of vehicle power” is also unduly
burdensome, unreasonably overly broad, given the number of different repair
issues including many outside of the engine, that could cause a lack of vehicle
power.  Given the plaintiff’s discovery requests
seeking evidence including emails of BMW employees generally and ESI relating
to other vehicles besides plaintiff’s with any of the constellation of possible
repair complaints not only in California but in any other state, this set of
Requests is unduly burdensome, taking into account the needs of this single-vehicle
case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in
this litigation.  See Code of Civil
Procedure § 2019.030(a)(2).  
 
RFP 33-55 DENIED EXCEPT AS TO BMW’s Agreement (“consistent
with the Court’s guidance”) to provide the responsive documents regarding the
symptoms actually experienced by Plaintiff with regard to the Subject Vehicle,
which must be produced (if they have not already been) with a verified further
written response within 21 days.  BMW’s
agreement to provide a further response generally uses the word “reports” as
opposed to the collection of other documents the Plaintiff seeks, so the Court
invites Plaintiff’s counsel to select an exemplary discovery request where BMW
agreed to produce “reports” so this sub-issue can be discussed and decided
upon.  
The defined term “Electrical
Defects” is unreasonably and overly broad, and unduly burdensome, resulting in
a multiply compound definition and vagueness when the “other similar concerns”
language is included and resulting in a request for documents that would not be
reasonably calculated to lead to evidence that might be admissible in this
trial a mere 4 weeks from now.   Had
Plaintiff limited the definition to illumination of the iDrive screen going
black while driving, a complaint in Plaintiff’s repair history, Plaintiff’s
Motion would be on more solid footing.  But
by including in the definition “defects requiring a vehicle software update”
among a dozen other categories, the definition results in an unduly burdensome
and unreasonably overly broad request given the dozens of different repair
issues that may require a software update rather than the issues that actually
existed in the subject vehicle. 
Similarly, the inclusion of the phrase “defects resulting in the vehicle
losing power while driving” is also unduly burdensome, unreasonably overly
broad, given the number of different repair issues including ones having
nothing to with electronics that could cause a lack of vehicle power.  Given the plaintiff’s discovery requests
seeking evidence including emails of BMW employees generally and ESI relating
to other vehicles besides plaintiff’s with any of the constellation of possible
repair complaints not only in California but in any other state, this set of
Requests is unduly burdensome, taking into account the needs of this
single-vehicle case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the
issues at stake in this litigation.  See
Code of Civil Procedure § 2019.030(a)(2). 

 
Sanctions
            
Sanctions
are generally mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to
interrogatories and requests for production of documents against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and 2031.310(h).)
However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.) 
 
In Plaintiff’s moving papers, he asserts this Court should award him
$11,500 in attorneys’ fees and costs. Plaintiff claims his sanction request
consists of: (1) thirteen (13) hours for Plaintiff’s counsel’s time to draft
the moving motion, separate statement, declaration and proposed order and
attached declaration; (2) one (1) hour for Plaintiff’s counsel’s time to review
Defendant’s opposition and conduct research to draft a reply brief; (3) five
hours for Plaintiff’s counsel’s time to draft a reply brief; and (4) one hour
for Plaintiff’s counsel to attend the hearing. Plaintiff’s counsel notes their
hourly rate is $450, which they assert is appropriate for two attorneys
licensed in California and Nevada specializing in lemon law in both states. 
 
First, the Court notes that for two attorneys specializing in lemon
law cases, thirteen hours is an excessive amount of time to spend on a Motion
to Compel with no paralegal time being claimed. 
 Further, five hours on a reply
brief seems excessive.   Although the Court finds the attorneys hourly
rates to be reasonable, the Court found that the scope of the requests was in
large part properly objected to, and that despite the Court’s fairly specific
guidance to both sides on how the discovery dispute would likely be resolved,
both sides dug in their heels and took what the Court views as unreasonable
positions rather than arriving at a negotiated resolution consistent with the
Court’s previous detailed guidance.  That
does not bode well for the conduct of the trial and pre-trial proceedings where
cooperation between counsel is needed to prepare joint trial documents.  The Court thus denies Plaintiff its attorneys’
fees, but notes that the Court will be revisiting the issue of reasonable attorney’s
fees if the case goes to trial and the jury finds in Plaintiff’s favor.   
¿¿¿ 
 