 Case Number:  23STCV25497    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Arbitration, filed by Defendant Uber
Technologies, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On October 19,
2023, Mari Goto (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Bo Li, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, and Does 1 through 40,
asserting various causes of action arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on October 19, 2021, on the 110 Freeway near to the Figueroa Street
exit in Los Angeles.  Plaintiff alleges (among
other things) that Plaintiff was injured in an accident caused by the
negligence of Defendant Li, and that Defendant Li was driving for Uber at the
time of the accident.
 
On February 2,
2024, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC filed
an answer to the complaint.
 
On March 11,
2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Fredy Garcia Hernandez and Jairo
Sandoval as Does 1 and 2.
 
On March
22, 2024, Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) filed this motion to compel
arbitration. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (See Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281, a “written agreement to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is
valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.”  
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides, in pertinent part, the following:
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement. 
(c) A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact ....”  
(d) … If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the
court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order
intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special
proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have
agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay
arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) 
“[W]hen a
petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence
of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must
determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement
is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because the existence of the
agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner
bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence. If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to
enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory
defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party bears the
burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
Discussion
Uber moves for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claim
against Uber in accordance with the terms of an agreement between the parties
to arbitrate.  Uber also seeks to stay
litigation of Plaintiff’s claims against Uber pending completion of the
arbitration.
Uber has met its initial burden of showing that there is an
agreement to arbitrate between the parties that covers the matters in dispute
here.  
Chenshan Yu, Data Scientist for Uber, has submitted a written
declaration explaining (among other things): (1) that Plaintiff accepted Uber’s
Terms of Service when she created her user account on April 15, 2017, and
subsequently accepted a series of Uber’s updated Terms of Service on January
21, 2021 and December 21, 2021.  (Yu
Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9.)  
Paragraph 2 of Uber’s Terms of Use dated March 23, 2017, includes
an agreement to arbitrate “any dispute, claim or controversy,” subject to some
exclusions that do not apply here.  (Exh.
B, at p. 11.)  Paragraph 2 of Uber’s Terms
of Use that Plaintiff accepted in January 2021, as well as paragraph 2 of the
Terms of Use that Plaintiff accepted in December 2021, also contain similar
provisions.  (Id., Exh. D.). 
Uber has made a prima facie showing to support the requested
relief.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition showing any defense to enforcement.
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
Uber’s motion to compel arbitration. 
The Court ORDERS
Plaintiff and Uber to arbitrate their dispute pursuant to the terms of the
agreements between them. 
The Court STAYS
litigation of Plaintiff’s claim against Uber (only).  This order does not have any effect on Plaintiff’s
litigation of claims against any other defendant in this matter. 
The Court sets
an OSC re dismissal (completion of arbitration) for November __, 2024, at 8:30
a.m., in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.