  Case Number:  20STCV31288    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Reopen Discovery for Limited Purpose filed by Defendants
Gus A. Makridis and Diana Jessica Solano
 
TENTATIVE
The motion is granted.
BACKGROUND
On August 18, 2020, Rosalba Tellez and Eliseo Parra
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Diana Jessica Solano (“Solano”),
Arcashia Danelle Arnold (“Arnold”), Gus A Makridis (“Makridis”), and Does 1
through 25, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising out of an automobile accident occurring on February 24,
2019.
On February 22, 2022, Solano and Makridis (“Defendants”) filed
an answer. On November 9, 2022, Arnold filed an answer.
On May 4, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ unopposed motion
to continue trial.  The trial date was continued
to January 19, 2024.
On January 2, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application to continue trial, based on the agreement of the parties and for
good cause shown.  The trial date was
continued to June 4.  Expert discovery
deadlines were reset based on the new trial date, but fact discovery remained
closed.
On March 18, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to reopen
discovery. Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 11, and Defendants filed a
reply on April 16.
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section
2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿  
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 DISCUSSION
The meet and confer requirement is satisfied.  (River Decl. ¶ 31; Exh. Q.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff Tellez obtained a new diagnosis
and both Plaintiffs received additional treatment for injuries in October and
November 2023.  (Id., ¶¶ 20-29
& Exhs. K-P.).  This information was
initially disclosed in unverified discovery responses on December 19, 2023,
with the verifications served on Defendants on January 4, 2024.  (Id., ¶¶ 12, 18.)
Defendants seek to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of
subpoenaing records regarding both Plaintiffs’ treatment with Dr. Nourian (whom
Plaintiffs did not see prior to October 11, 2023) and regarding Ms. Tellez lumbar
MRI taken on November 7, 2023.
Defendants sent meet-and-confer correspondence on March 4,
2024, and filed this motion on March 18. 
Defendants do not explain why they did not act earlier, including during
the two months after they were served with the discovery verifications. 
The Court now turns to the four factors set forth in Code of
Civil Procedure section 2024.050. 
The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery.¿
Defendants argue that the records
that they seek to subpoena relate to medical treatment received by, and
diagnoses of, Plaintiffs.  Such
information is at the core of standard discovery in a personal injury case.
 
The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿
Defendants have not been diligent.  Although discovery was closed, Defendants
were in fact aware of these new treatments and diagnoses by January 4, 2024, when
they received the discovery verifications (if not sooner, on December 19, when
they received the unverified discovery responses).
Defendants waited more than two
months to bring this motion and offer no explanation for that delay. 
Any likelihood that permitting
the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going
to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ 
Trial is set for June 4,
2024.  Reopening discovery for the
limited purposes of allowing subpoenas to be issued is not likely to interfere
with the trial date, as the medical providers would have more than a month
before trial to respond to the subpoenas.
The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action. 
There have been a number of trial
dates set in this case.  At one point,
the trial date was set for January 19, 2024. 
Trial was continued to June 4.
The Court has
considered the evidence and argument presented by both sides, as well as the
four factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050.
The Court finds
that although some factors favor Defendants and some favor Plaintiffs, on
balance Defendants have shown good cause for the reopening of discovery for the
limited purposes of allowing Defendants to issue and serve two subpoenas: one
subpoena to Precise Imaging for the records of the lumbar MRI of Ms. Tellez on
November 17, 2023; and one subpoena to Dr. Alen A. Nourian for records of treatment
of Plaintiffs from October 11, 2023, to the present.
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED. 
In light of Defendants’
lack of diligence, the Court will look with disfavor on any request by
Defendants for a further continuance of trial based on any delay in obtaining
the records pursuant to subpoena.  
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to
reopen discovery for
the limited purpose of allowing Defendants to issue and serve two subpoenas: one
subpoena to Precise Imaging for the records of the lumbar MRI of Ms. Tellez on
November 17, 2023; and one subpoena to Dr. Alen A. Nourian for records of treatment
of Plaintiffs from October 11, 2023, to the present.
Moving Party to provide notice.