  Case Number:  23PSCV02887    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   GENERAL MOTORS LLC’S AMENDED NOTICE OF DEMURRER AND DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
(2)   GENERAL MOTORS LLC’S AMENDED NOTICE OF MOTION; MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE
DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is MOOT. 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law case arising from Plaintiff Mario
Cerritos’ purchase of a 2022 Chevrolet Silverado Ltd that experienced “transmission
defects, engine defects, infotainment defects, suspension defects; among other
defects and non-conformities.” (FAC p. 2.) More specifically, the defect at
issue is with the vehicle’s 8-speed transmission that is susceptible to sudden
and premature failure. (FAC p. 11.) 
 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On November 27, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer. 
 
On February 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC), rendering the 11/27/23 demurrer moot. 
 
On March 28, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike (MTS).
 
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On May 13, 2024, Defendant filed its reply.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the 5th COA for fraudulent
inducement—concealment.
 
Specifically, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff failed to
allege (i) the identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly concealed
material facts or made untrue representations about the Silverado, (ii) their
authority to speak and act on behalf of GM, (iii) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects
in Plaintiff’s Silverado at the time of purchase, (iv) any interactions
with GM before or during the purchase of the Silverado, or (v) GM’s intent to
induce reliance by Plaintiff to purchase the specific Silverado at issue.”
(Demurrer p. 8, emphasis original.) 
 
Here, the court agrees that the FAC fails to plead specific
facts as to Defendant’s knowledge of the defect (element 3). While the FAC may
provide various allegations to support its COA, the allegations are conclusory
nor specifically identify this vehicle. (Demurrer p. 5.)[1] 
 
For example, the FAC references “shift quality issues” with
the 8-speed transmission, but the FAC does not allege that the issues pertain
to the 2022 Chevrolet Silverado. (FAC P68.) Similarly, the FAC references
service bulletins issued by GM about transmission problems, but it is not
alleged that said service bulletins from 2014 to 2019 pertain to the 2022
Chevrolet Silverado. (FAC P69.) And an example of conclusory pleading includes
the following: “Plaintiff alleges that prior to the sale of the Vehicle to
Plaintiff, Defendant GM knew that the Vehicle and its 8-speed transmission
suffered from an inherent defect, was defective, would fail prematurely, and
was not suitable for its intended use.” (FAC P72.) Absent references that the defects with the
8-speed transmission are flawed in the 2022 Chevrolet Silverado Ltd, the
pleading fails to state sufficient facts to support a fraud COA. 
 
To the extent that in opposition Plaintiff contends such
allegations are sufficient by pointing to Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844, that does not address the sufficiency of this
pleading (i.e., cannot compare the complaint in Dhital to compare to
complaint in the instant case). Moreover, the California Supreme Court has
granted the petition for review of the case. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues it need not pled intent
with particularity when the defendant holds the information, that may be true,
but, per Plaintiff’s own citation, the “nature of the allegations that
the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts
must at the very least be pled.” (Opp. p. 2, citing Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216-217.)
Here, however, the mere fact that the transmission may have had problems does
not equate to a sufficient allegation that Defendant knew of a definitive
problem and decided intentionally to withhold/conceal said
information. After all, “[f]raud is never presumed” (Mason v. Drug Inc.
(1939) 31 Cal.App.2d 697, 703), but Plaintiff’s allegations seek the court to
make such a presumption.
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is sustained with leave
to amend. Consequently, the MTS to strike punitive damages based upon the 5th
COA for fraudulent inducement—concealment is moot. 


