 Case Number:  21STCV43746    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  47 Tracy
Sheen v. Concentra Inc., Case No. 21STCV43746
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON CERTAIN MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiff’s MIL # 1:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit against her former employer.  
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED. 

The Court agrees
with Plaintiff that evidence of her prior lawsuit should be excluded as
improper character evidence under Evidence Code § 1101 and as unduly
prejudicial, confusing and time-consuming under Evidence Code § 352.  In Lowenthal v. Mortimer (1954) 125
Cal. App. 2d 636, 643, our Court of Appeal reversed a jury verdict in favor of
defendant, based on an improper ruling allowing evidence on 15 prior lawsuits
in which the plaintiff and her husband were involved.  The appellate court ruled that these lawsuits
were irrelevant to the issue of plaintiff’s alleged negligence in the case that
was tried, not probative of any “nervousness” on plaintiff’s part in
confronting the situation that led to the recent accident, and improper and
prejudicial as a means of attacking the credibility of the plaintiff.  (Id., at pp. 340-342.)  The same must be said here.  Evidence of Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit has no
probative value in assessing the strength or credibility of her claims here and
does nothing to undercut or bolster her credibility in making those claims. 
Defendants argue
that the prior lawsuit should be admitted as evidence of a “pattern of ‘crying
wolf’ and of manufacturing claims,” that it is admissible under subdivision (b)
of Evidence Code §1101 to show Plaintiff’s motive, intent, or plan to use litigation
to secure financial gain rather than to assert valid complaints about
discrimination and retaliation.  Defendants
also contend that Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit demonstrates her knowledge of what
she needs to prove in this case and her scheme to create false evidence to
bolster her claims.  The Court is not
persuaded by these arguments.  That
Plaintiff lost a previous lawsuit for discrimination against a prior employer
says nothing about the righteousness of her claims here.  Nor can it be said that it reflects a “plan”
or “scheme” on Plaintiff’s part since evaluating such a pattern necessarily
involves an objective assessment of the underlying misconduct being alleged in
each case as much as Plaintiff’s subjective evaluation of her employment
circumstances.  Further, Plaintiff’s
efforts to assert her rights under protective legislation like the FEHA should
not be undermined by allowing Defendants to disparage her “intent” or “motive” to
enforce those rights against multiple employers as somehow nefarious or
improper.  
As an alternative
basis for admission, Defendants urge the Court to permit evidence of
Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit to prove that her emotional distress arising from
Defendants’ alleged misconduct in 2018 
through November 2020, was in fact generated as a result of her
difficulties with her previous employer in the years leading up to her 2012 and
2013 administrative complaints against the County of Los Angeles. This is
simply not plausible.  Plaintiff’s
alleged misconduct by the County is sufficiently remote in time from the
misconduct asserted against Defendants that it cannot be said that any pre-2012
misconduct would have been an alternate, pre-existing impetus for Plaintiff’s
current emotional injuries.  Certainly, Defendants
have pointed to no evidence supporting their contention that Plaintiff’s
experience with the County contributed in any way to the emotional distress
damages she claims to have suffered in this case.  
 
Finally, even if
there were some minimal probative value to be ascribed to Plaintiff’s prior
lawsuit, the Court would exclude the evidence under Evidence Code § 352 because
its scant relevant is starkly outweighed by the prejudice Plaintiff would
suffer by being pegged as a litigious employee, the confusion the jury would
experience in wondering how to assess Plaintiff’s prior work experience in
ruling on this case, and the waste of time and resources that would be
necessary to explore Plaintiff’s complaints in the prior case to compare and
contrast them with those in this case.    
Plaintiff’s MIL # 2:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding claims or parties no longer at issue.  
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED IN PART, as to any claims against any other
parties, but DENIED IN PART, as to evidence mentioning Select Medical in
documents and other evidence, subject to Plaintiff’s right to object to
specific evidence offered at trial.  
Defendants’ MIL #3:  seeking to exclude improper “me too” evidence.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED IN PART, as to testimony by Stacy Duncan, Andree Leroy, M.D., and
part of the proposed testimony of Wendy-Ann Sylvester, M.D., GRANTED IN PART in that the Court will hold a Evidence Code § 402 hearing
on the admissibility of Dr. Sylvester’s testimony about disciplinary actions,
including probation and termination, taken against her, and deferred as to
evidence about the employment circumstances of Sonia Knight, Jan Guy, and
Sherica.  
“California courts have held so-called ‘me too’ evidence,
that is, evidence of . . . bias against employees other than the plaintiff, may
be admissible evidence in discrimination and harassment cases. (See Pantoja [v.
Anton (2011)] 198 Cal. App. 4th 87, 129 Cal. Rptr. 3d 384; Johnson v.
United Cerebral Palsy/Spastic Children's Foundation (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
740, 93 Cal.Rptr.3d 198 (Johnson).) The relevance of evidence concerning
conduct toward nonparty employees is inherently ‘”fact based and depends on many
factors, including how closely related the evidence is to the plaintiff's
circumstances and theory of the case.”’ (Johnson, supra, at p. 767, 93
Cal.Rptr.3d 198.) ‘[S]imilar considerations are involved in balancing the
probative value of the evidence against its prejudicial effect.’ (Ibid.)
‘Me too’ evidence is therefore not subject to any per se rule of exclusion, and
may be admissible to prove a defendant's motive or intent even where the
conduct occurred outside the plaintiff's presence and at times other than when
the plaintiff was employed. (Pantoja, supra, at pp. 115-116, 129
Cal.Rptr.3d 384; see also Sprint/United Mgmt. Co. v. Mendelsohn (2008)
552 U.S. 379, 381, 388, 128 S.Ct. 1140, 170 L.Ed.2d 1 [evidence that employer
discriminated against employees other than plaintiff ‘is neither per se
admissible nor per se inadmissible,’ and instead ‘requires a fact-intensive,
context-specific inquiry’].)”  (Meeks
v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal. App. 5th 855, 871.)  
In her complaint, Plaintiff alleges that, acting largely
through its District Medical Officer, Kaochoy Saechao, Defendant denied
Plaintiff work hours, reduced her hours, denied her transfer, and placed her on
probation, after being put on a Performance Improvement Plan.  (Complaint ¶¶ 25-46, 55.)  She also asserts that Dr. Saechao
“micromanaged, belittled, and disrespected” her.  (Id., ¶ 32.)  To support her contention that Defendants,
and particularly Dr. Saechao, acted with discriminatory intent because of her
race, African American, Plaintiff seeks to offer “me too” evidence from other Black
health professionals who were supervised by Dr. Saechao and believed he
discriminated against and mistreated them because of their race.  
In her declaration, Stacy Duncan, a Black female Physician
Assistant, asserts that Dr. Saechao took steps to take her off the schedule,
move her to a location where she would not have the opportunity to conduct
COVID testing, deny her a position in downtown Los Angeles, and treated her in
an unprofessional and demeaning manner.  (Exh.
A, Duncan Decl., ¶¶ 12, 17-18, 24-25, 27-32.)  Ms. Duncan stated the Dr. Saechao treated “many
people poorly, but especially Black employees.” (¶ 33.)  Contrary to Defendants’ argument, the clear
inference from Duncan’s declaration is that she considered herself on of the
Black employees who was subjected to Dr. Saechao’s “especially” poor treatment
because of her race.  Further, her mistreatment
occurred in the same time frame as Plaintiff’s, was similar in kind to that
experienced by Plaintiff, and was spearheaded by the same alleged wrongdoer.  While the Court will entertain objections
about hearsay, foundation, and other evidentiary concerns, the Court finds Ms.
Duncan’s anticipated testimony to be admissible.  
Just as with Plaintiff’s and Duncan’s complaints, Andree
Leroy, a Black female doctor, complained in her declaration about Dr. Saecho’s
“disrespectful behavior to Black women under his direction,” including Dr.
Leroy, his abrupt decree that she be transferred to a less attractive clinic
assignment and refusal to reverse that transfer, and Dr. Leroy’s decision as a
result of her mistreatment to resign her full-time position.  (Exh. B, Leroy Decl., ¶¶ 1-3, 10, 12-15,
18-19, 31.)  Dr. Leroy also testified to
her belief that Dr. Saecho “denied [her] employment opportunities base on [her]
race during [her] time with USHW/Concentra.” 
(Id., ¶ 31.)  Again, while
Defendants may assert objections to certain questions posed to Dr. Leroy, the
Court finds her testimony to be proper “me too” evidence.  It addresses the discriminatory biases of Dr.
Saecho – the same supervisor who allegedly plagued Plaintiff’s employment
experience – his disrespectful treatment and negative decision-making about
transfers and assignments in the same time frame relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims.  That he would treat a Black
female physician in the same manner as Plaintiff does not undermine its
probative value.  To the contrary, it accentuates
Dr. Leroy’s negative biases, even against health providers with full medical
degrees and licensing. 
According to her Superior Court complaint, Dr. Wendy-Ann
Sylvester alleges that Dr. Saecho “micromanaged, belittled and disrespected”
her and subjected her to a wave of criticisms and discipline, and ultimately
placed her on probation and terminated her. 
(Exh. D.)  Dr. Sylvester’s employment
tenure overlaps with Plaintiff’s and, like Plaintiff, she targets her
supervisor, Dr. Saecho, with a long list of discriminatory misconduct.  Certainly, her testimony about his belittling
and disrespectful conduct is relevant to Plaintiff’s contention that Dr. Saecho
acted with discriminatory intent.  While
both Dr. Syvester and Plaintiff were given disciplinary notices or, in
Plaintiff’s case, a Performance Improvement Plan and placed on probation, the
nature of the alleged deficiencies that led to these deleterious actions would
appear to be quite different for a physician like Dr. Sylvester, as compared to
Plaintiff.  Thus, before Dr. Sylvester
could testify more broadly about the negative actions taken against her, the
Court would hold a hearing under Evidence Code § 402 to examine the
similarities between circumstances of Plaintiff and Dr. Sylvester.  
Plaintiff’s evidence about Sonia Knight, Jan Guy and Sherica
appears to be subject to exclusion based on a lack of personal knowledge by
Plaintiff or Duncan and/or on hearsay grounds, so the Court cannot evaluate its
admissibility as valid “me too” evidence offered to demonstrate Defendants’
discriminatory intent.  Accordingly, the
Court defers any ruling on the motion in limine on that ground until it is
presented with otherwise admissible evidence of these employee’s employment
experiences.  
Defendants’ MIL #4:  seeking to exclude evidence related to other
lawsuits or settlements involving defendants.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. 

While the litigation process of the lawsuit brought against Defendants
by Wendy-Ann Sylvester, M.D., is likely to be wholly irrelevant to any issue in
this action, some of the underlying conduct complained of by Dr. Sylvester may
be admissible, as explained above, to demonstrate Defendants’ discriminatory
intent.  Further, to the extent that Dr.
Sylvester can testify she made complaints about Dr. Saecho or about other
objections she lodged to her mistreatment, these actions may be admissible to
prove that Defendants had notice of Dr. Saecho’s misconduct and failed to
remedy it.  Such evidence is plainly
admissible to support Plaintiff’s failure to prevent claim.  
 
 
 
 
                                