  Case Number:  19STCV16926    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 30, 2023                                           TRIAL DATE: TBD
                                                           
CASE:                         David J. Randall, et al. v. Karine
Gasparian, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV16926            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs David Randall and Mary M. Zakrasek Randall
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 10/25/23
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/15/19: Complaint filed.
·        
12/31/19: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
01/08/20: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for trespass. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
trespassed on their property and performed unauthorized and illegal
modifications to the property while renovating an adjacent property. 
 
Plaintiffs move to compel the
deposition of Defendant Armen Gasparian, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
Deposition is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Armen Gasparian is ordered to appear for deposition and produce all documents
responsive to the categories identified in the August 9, 2023 deposition notice
at a time and place of Plaintiffs’ choosing within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,692.50.
Payment is to be made within 30 days of this order. 
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move to compel the
deposition of Defendant Armen Gasparian, and for sanctions. 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
The declaration of Sean M. Bryn states
that Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with Defendant via email and
telephone between August 30 and September 5, 2023. (Declaration of Sean M. Bryn
ISO Mot. ¶¶ 5-6.) The declaration states that on September 5, Defendant left
Plaintiff’s counsel a voicemail message stating that former defense counsel
would reach out to schedule a deposition date for Defendant, but no further
communication was received after that date. (Id. ¶ 6.) The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied their statutory meet and confer
obligations. 
 
Notice
of Motion
 
            Plaintiffs do not set forth in the
Notice of Motion the statutes or other authority under which they are seeking
the relief requested in this motion. As the operative authority, Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450, is referenced extensively throughout the included
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, however, the Court will address the
motion on its merits. 
 
Deposition and Document Production
 
Plaintiffs move to compel the
deposition of Defendant Armen Gasparian and for production of documents.
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).) Further, where production of documents is sought in
connection with the deposition, the motion must set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
            Here, Plaintiffs served a deposition
notice on Defendant Armen Gasparian on August 9, 2023 for a deposition on
August 30, 2023. (Bryn Decl. Exh. B.) Defendant did not appear. (Id. ¶
4.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states that although Defendant promised repeatedly to
provide dates when he would be available for deposition in September 2023, no
dates were ever provided. (Id. ¶¶ 5-6.) Plaintiffs are therefore
entitled to an order compelling Defendant to appear for deposition.
 
            Plaintiffs also request that the
Court compel production of 16 categories of documents identified in the
deposition notice. (Bryn Decl. Exh. B.) These categories include, inter alia,
documents pertaining to construction at Defendants’ property, agreements
between the Defendants concerning that construction, and Defendants’ claim of
an easement over Plaintiffs’ property. (Id.) These requests are relevant
on their face to the allegations pled in the First Amended Complaint. (See FAC ¶¶
9-25.) Plaintiffs have therefore demonstrated good cause for production of
these documents.
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiffs also request monetary
sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $4,485.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions against
any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel deposition,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs request sanctions in the amount of $4,485, based on 3.5 hours of
attorney time incurred preparing this motion at an hourly rate of $495 per
hour, plus 3.5 anticipated hours, plus an additional $960 in costs to cover the
fees for the court reporter at the August 30 deposition. (Bryn Decl. ¶ 8.) The
Court declines to award anticipated attorney’s fees not actually incurred.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs will be awarded reduced sanctions in the amount of $2,692.50,
reflecting the fees and costs actually incurred. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Armen Gasparian is ordered to appear for deposition and produce all documents
responsive to the categories identified in the August 9, 2023 deposition notice
at a time and place of Plaintiffs’ choosing within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,692.50.
Payment is to be made within 10 days of this order. 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 30,
2023                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 