 Case Number:  BC597883    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 30, 2023                   JUDGMENT:
June 21, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Paul Krzemuski, Trustee of the Violette
Krzemuski aka Violette Adamian 2013 Family Trust v. George Zakharia, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC597883            
 
MOTION
TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Paul Krzemuski, Trustee of
the Violet Krzemuski, aka Violette Adamian 2013 Family Trust
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants/Cross-Complainants
George Zakharia and Hoda Zakharia
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/14/15: Complaint filed.
·        
11/16/15: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
04/23/18: Compulsory Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
06/07/18: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed. 
·        
06/21/23: Judgment entered for Plaintiff and
against Defendants.
·        
08/18/23: Amended Judgment entered. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action to quiet title by adverse possession.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Paul Krzemuski moves to expunge a notice of lis
pendens recorded against the subject property. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees and costs is DENIED. 
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Paul Krzemuski moves to expunge a notice of lis
pendens recorded against the subject property. 
 
Legal Standard
for Expungement of Lis Pendens
 
A lis pendens is a recorded
document that gives constructive notice that an action affecting title or right
to possession of real property has been filed, and may be filed by any party
that asserts a real property claim to that real property. (Kirkeby v.
Sup. Ct. (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 647.) A person with an interest in the
affected real property can petition the court to expunge the lis pendens. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 405.30.) The court must order the lis pendens expunged if it finds
that (a) there is no real property claim, (b) the claimant did not establish by
a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property
claim, or (c) adequate relief can be secured by giving an undertaking. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 405.31- 405.33.) A real property claim is a cause of action that,
if successful, would affect title to or the right of possession of specific
real property or the use of an easement identified in a
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 405.4.) “[O]n a motion to expunge a lis
pendens after judgment against the claimant and while an appeal is pending, the
trial court must grant the motion unless it finds it more likely than not that
the appellate court will reverse the judgment.” (Amalgamated Bank v.
Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1015.) 
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendants
raise evidentiary objections to the Declarations of Paul Krzemuski and Daniel
Rinsch in support of the motion. As none of the evidence to which Defendants
object is material to the Court’s ruling, the Court declines to rule on these
objections.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) a Notice of Pending Action recorded
December 29, 2014, Instrument No. 20151633728; (2) the May 17, 2023 Minute
Order in this action; (3) the May 17, 2023 Ruling on Matter Taken Under
Submission in this action; (4) the Judgment entered June 21, 2023 in this
action; and (5) the Amended Judgment entered August 18, 2023 in this action.
Plaintiff’s requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code sections 452(c)
(official acts) and (d) (court records). 
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of a Permit and Inspection Report
for a property at 1817 Rial Lane from the Los Angeles Department of Building
and Safety. As this evidence is not material to the Court’s ruling, Defendants’
request is DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen
(1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to
those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].)  
 
Expungement of Lis Pendens
 
Plaintiff seeks expungement of a
lis pendens recorded against the property that is the subject of this dispute
following the Court’s entry of judgment. 
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants
George and Hoda Zakharia filed a Cross-Complaint alleging claims for quiet
title and slander of title against Plaintiff on November 16, 2015.
(Cross-Complaint.) Defendants then recorded a Notice of Pending Action on the
subject property on December 29, 2015. (RJN Exh. A.) Plaintiff filed a
compulsory cross-complaint against Defendants asserting causes of action for
declaratory relief, quiet title, and imposition and foreclosure of an equitable
lien on June 7, 2018. (Compulsory Cross-Complaint.) 
 
On May 17, 2023, this Court granted
a renewed motion for summary judgment by Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant on both
Plaintiff’s quiet title claim and on Defendants’ Cross-Complaint in its
entirety. (RJN Exh. C.) Judgment was entered pursuant to this ruling and on
stipulation of the parties on June 21, 2023, awarding Plaintiff possession of
the property against which the Notice of Pending Action was recorded. (RJN Exh.
D.) Defendants filed a Notice of Appeal from that judgment on August 14, 2023.
(Notice of Appeal.) Four days later, the Court entered an amended judgment
awarding Plaintiff fees and costs in the amount of $131,400. (RJN Exh. E.) 
 
Based on the Court’s ruling on the
summary judgment motion and subsequent entry of judgment, Plaintiff moves for
an order expunging the lis pendens recorded against the subject
property. 
 
Defendants oppose, first arguing
that the Court erred in accepting cancelled checks and bank statements as
admissible non-hearsay evidence, upon which it relied to find that Plaintiff
paid property taxes on the subject property, because they were not properly
authenticated business records under Evidence Code section 1271. The Court
declined to exclude this evidence, overruling Defendants’ hearsay objections
asserted in connection with the summary judgment motion. 
 
A writing is subject to the
business records exception and is not inadmissible hearsay if (a) it was made
in the regular course of business; (b) at or near the time of the act,
condition or event; (c) a custodian or other qualified witness testifies
to its identity and the mode of its preparation; and (d) the sources of
information and method and time of preparation were such as to indicate its
trustworthiness. (Evid. Code § 1271.) The Court has broad discretion in
admitting business records under this statute. (See, e.g., People v. Dorsey
(1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 953, 961.) In fact, the Court may find that the criteria
for application of the business records exception may be inferred from the
circumstances. (Id.) “Indeed, it is presumed in the preparation of the
records not only that the regular course of business is followed but that the
books and papers of the business truly reflect the facts set forth in the
records brought to court.” (Id.) Plaintiff offered bank statements and
cancelled checks maintained by his parents dating back three decades and
testified to their origin. (See, e.g., Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence ISO
Renewed Mot. Exhs. 55, 57.) In contrast, Defendants offered no evidence challenging
the contention that Violet Adamian, and not they, paid property taxes. (See RJN
Exh. C pp. 14-15.) Nor did they suggest any basis to doubt the authenticity of
the documents, nor any reason to presume that Plaintiff was not qualified to
speak to the preparation of the records made by his parents over many years. The
Court is therefore not persuaded by this line of argument.
 
Defendants’ next argument is a
conclusory assertion that Plaintiff did not prove actual possession, open and
notorious possession, or continuous physical occupation of the property because
Violet Adamian did not physically occupy the property. To the contrary,
Plaintiff offered considerable evidence of precisely that. (See RJN Exh. C. p.
13.) Defendants, by contrast, offered nothing to rebut that contention. Defendants
still offer nothing to rebut that contention. The Court therefore finds this
argument likewise to be without merit. 
 
In the alternative, Defendants
argue that the Court should deny the motion to preserve the status quo ante
pending appeal. This contention is contrary to binding precedent that the
motion must be granted unless the Court finds there is a probability that the
judgment will be reversed on appeal. (Amalgamated Bank v. Superior Court
supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at 1015.) For the reasons stated above, the Court
does not find a probability of reversal on appeal. Plaintiff is therefore
entitled to an order expunging the lis pendens.
 
Attorney’s Fees
 
            Plaintiff
also requests an award of attorney’s fees against Defendants in the amount of $20,310.

 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 405.38 provides that the Court “shall direct that the
party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court
finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 405.38.)
 
            The Court
observes two issues with Plaintiff’s fee request which it finds render the
imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust. First, and of greatest
significance, Plaintiff did not include a request for fees in his notice of
motion, nor were the applicable statutes identified. In fact, the first time
that an award of attorney’s fees is mentioned in the moving papers is at the
very bottom of the 10th page of a 12-page motion. (Memo of Ps. & As.
p.10:27.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s fee request is based on an inflated 34 hours of
attorney time plus an additional 8 hours anticipated to be incurred by Attorney
Lawrence J. Poteet at a rate of $425 per hour (Declaration of Lawrence J.
Poteet ISO Mot. ¶ 7), plus an additional 6 hours incurred by Attorney Robert
Shtofman at $700 per hour (Declaration of Robert Scott Shtofman ISO Mot. ¶¶
4-5), plus $60 in filing fees. (Poteet Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s fee request is
unreasonably inflated on its face, and the Court has the power to deny
unreasonably inflated fee requests outright. (Chavez v. City of Los Angeles (2010) 47 Cal. 4th 970, 989-991.) For
these reasons, the Court finds that the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs
against Defendants would be unjust, and therefore declines to award attorney’s
fees.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees and costs is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 30, 2023                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 