 Case Number:  21STCV12444    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ ENCINO NEWCASTLE HOMEOWNERS, Plaintiff(s), vs. DEL SOL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 21STCV12444 (R/T 24STCV15463) Hearing Date: August 13, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) GRANTING IN PART MOTION QUASH SUBPOENA FOR BUSINESS RECORDS, (2) DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE REQUEST FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER, AND (3) DENYING MOTION FOR OSC RE: CONTEMPT  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Encino Newcastle Homeowner’s Association (“Encino”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Del Sol Property Management, Inc. (“Del Sol”), Lara Sinitsin (“Sinitsin”), and Does 1 through 100 for, alleging that Encino hired Del Sol, owned and operated by Sinitsin, as its property manager in January 2010. Encino alleges that defendants used their position to siphon money from Encino, convert its property, enter improper contracts and agreements, and have refused to return Encino’s books and records. The FAC sets forth eight causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Accounting; (5) Conversion and theft; (6) Fraud; (7) Specific Performance; and (8) Declaratory Relief. Del Sol and Sinitsin filed a cross-complaint against Encino, Kourosh Yaghoobian (“Yaghoobian”), Giv Bastanielahabadi, and Allen Tabibi (“Tabibi”) for breach of written contract and inducing breach of contract, alleging that these cross-defendants intended to take over The Board through unlawful means, and by making false allegations that Del Sol and Sinitsin were stealing money from Encino.  On May 15, 2024, Del Sol filed a motion for an OSC Re: Contempt based on non-party HOA Management Professionals, Inc.’s (“HMP”) failure to produce business records pursuant to a subpoena issued on December 29, 2023. On May 28, 2024, non-party HMP filed a motion to quash the December 29, 2023 deposition subpoena for production of business records issued by Del Sol. On July 10, 2024, the court continued Del Sol’s and HMP’s motions to be heard at the same time, on August 13, 2023, due to the motions’ related issues.  II.  MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA  Legal Standard The court may, upon noticed motion and opportunity to be heard, make an order quashing or modifying a third-party deposition subpoena that requires production of books or documents.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)¿ In so doing, the court may make an order “as may be appropriate to protect the [party, witness, consumer or employee] from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the[ir] right of privacy.”¿ (Id.)¿ “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)¿ “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement ...”¿ (citation).”¿ These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery, (Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790), and contrary to popular belief fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.¿ (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 385.)¿ The Court must carefully balance the right of privacy against the need for disclosure. (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855-56; see also John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1199.) The ascertainment of the truth in connection with legal proceedings is a compelling state interest.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 857.)¿ In balancing the divergent interests, the court considers the purpose of the information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the affected persons and parties, the nature of the objections urged by the party resisting disclosure, and the availability of the alternative, less intrusive means for obtaining the requested information. (Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 997, 1005.) The more sensitive the nature of the personal information that is sought, the more substantial the showing of the need for the discovery that will be required before disclosure will be permitted. (Id. at 1004.) Parties’ Positions At issue is Del Sol’s May 6, 2024 deposition subpoena seeking to depose HMP’s PMQ and to produce certain documents. HMP agrees to produce its PMQ for deposition, and to produce business records only to the extent that it is not duplicative of records previously produced and is relevant to the action. HMP argues that the deposition subpoena seeks business records between HMP and non-party Mira Flores Homeowners Association, Inc. (“MFHA”), which is a homeowners association that HMP no longer manages. HMP asserts it already complied with Del Sol’s first deposition subpoena seeking business records between HMP and Encino. HMP contends the deposition subpoena requesting records should be quashed because aside from seeking irrelevant documents between it and MFHA, the requests largely overlap with Del Sol’s first deposition subpoena, which HMP had already produced a 1,000-page record in response. HMP also seeks a protective order to prevent disclosure of HMP’s business records related to non-party MFHA. The parties met and conferred and could not come to an agreement. In opposition, Del Sol accuses HMP of assisting cross-defendants Allen Tabibi and Yaghoobian to steal from plaintiff Encino, and that HMP was complicit in their embezzlement scheme. Del Sol argues that the records from MFHA are necessary because Tabibi knew manager Jolene Elliot (“Elliot”) because Elliot managed MFHP where Tabibi served as a director. Del Sol suspects that Tabibi knew HMP would help Del Sol steal from Encino because MHP previously helped Tabibi steal from MFHP. In reply, HMP argues that Del Sol suspects, without presenting any competent evidence, that HMP co-conspired to embezzle funds from Encino. HMP argues the records requested between it and Encino are essentially the same requests between the first and second subpoena, and that Del Sol is demanding HMP reproduce records already provided, such that it is unduly burdensome. Del Sol filed a sur-opposition to the motion to quash regarding correspondence with Elliot and her testimony regarding access to Encino’s records. Discussion For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.¿(Gonzalez v. Superior Court¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)¿Although the scope of discovery is broad, it is not limitless. The Court has reviewed the deposition subpoena and limits its review to the issues raised. The deposition subpoena seeks HMP’s PMQ to produce the records between HMP and MFHP/Encino (Attachment 3 of the deposition subpoena) and between HMP and Encino (Attachment 4 of the deposition subpoena). (Mot. Exh. B.) More specifically, Nos. 13-15 of Attachment 3 seek checks, contracts, and invoices between HMP and MFHP, and Nos. 12-13 of Attachment 4 seeks the same contracts and payments between HMP and MFHP.  Here, the Court finds that Del Sol has not established the relevance of records between HMP and MFHP, which are two non-parties to this action. Del Sol’s arguments are speculative at best, and if HMP was so allegedly complicit in an embezzlement scheme with cross-defendants Tabibi and Yaghoobian, it is curious as to why HMP has not been brought in as a party to the action. The Court is not persuaded that the records between the two non-party entities are relevant to the instant lawsuit, or that there is a legitimate need for it. The Court declines to rule on Del Sol’s objections to Elliot’s declaration, because Elliot’s declaration has no bearing on this Court’s decision. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1987.1(a), the Court may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. Therefore, the motion to quash is granted in part as document requests Nos. 13-15 of Attachment 3, and Nos. 12-13 of Attachment 4 to the deposition subpoena only. In terms of HMP’s argument that the remaining requests seeking records between it and Encino are duplicative, HMP has not shown that the requests between the first subpoena and the second subpoena now at issue are so substantially similar that it is harassing or overburdensome to be produced just because there may be overlapping documents produced to respond to the requests. If the documents sought are virtually the same such that it would be a reproduction, the Court fails to understand what would be unduly burdensome or costly for HMP to serve records it already made efforts to gather and remains in its possession. Lastly, the Court finds that there is no compelling need for a protective order at this time, when it appears to be the first time Del Sol has sought records between HMP and MFHP, and the Court will grant HMP’s motion as to these requests. D. Conclusion HMP’s motion to quash Del Sol’s deposition subpoena is GRANTED IN PART as to (1) Attachment 3 – document requests Nos. 13-15, and (2) Attachment 4 – document request Nos. 12-13. HMP’s motion for a protective order to prevent disclosure of records between it and MFHP is DENIED without prejudice. Both HMP’s and Del Sol’s request for sanctions against each other are denied.   III.  MOTION FOR OSC RE: CONTEMPT A. Legal Standard  C.C.P. §1211(a) provides when contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge at chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators, or other judicial officers. (C.C.P. §1211(a).) In addition, C.C.P. §1209(a)(5) provides that disobedience of any order is a contempt of the authority of the court. “A contempt proceeding is commenced by the filing of an affidavit and a request for an order to show cause.” (Cedars-Sinai Imaging Medical Group v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1286; see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1211(a)-(b).) “After notice to the opposing party's lawyer, the court (if satisfied with the sufficiency of the affidavit) must sign an order to show cause re contempt in which the date and time for a hearing are set forth.” (Id.) However, “[u]nless the citee has concealed himself from the court, he must be personally served with the affidavit and the order to show cause; otherwise, the court lacks jurisdiction to proceed.” (Id. at 1287.)¿ “It is axiomatic that a court may not punish a contempt committed out of its presence without a full hearing . . . at which [the alleged contemner] has the opportunity to appear by reason of personal service of an order to show cause [C.C.P. §§1211, 1212]. Neither warrant nor order to show cause may issue except on proper affidavit setting forth the full facts of the alleged contempt.” (Lund v. Superior Court of Orange County (1964) 61 Cal.2d 698, 713.) “‘[A] valid order and judgment of indirect contempt must cover the following elements: the issuance of an order, the contemner’s knowledge of the order, the contemner’s ability to obey it, and the contemner’s willful disobedience. [Citation.] The order and judgment must state evidentiary facts supporting a finding of each of these elements, except that it need not state such facts in support of the finding of willfulness, which may be inferred from the circumstances.’ [Citation.]” (Koehler v. Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1169.) B. Discussion Del Sol argues it issued a subpoena to HMP, and that HMP failed to produce some of the records sought, namely: email messages, text messages, and all accounting books/records. In opposition, HMP argues that it attempted to comply with the subpoena, but were unable to do so due to technical difficulties and had informed Del Sol of such. After, HMP managed to retrieve the emails, and when it informed Del Sol’s counsel that the documents were available and requested the fee associated with obtaining the documents, Del Sol made racist remarks, did not pay the invoice, and then brought this motion for to harass HMP. In reply, Del Sol argues that the issue of contempt must be determined at a live hearing and not on paper. “As a general rule, the elements of contempt include (1) a valid order, (2) knowledge of the order, (3) ability to comply with the order, and (4) willful failure to comply with the order.” (In re Ivey (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 793, 798.) The motion for contempt is denied. The Court is not satisfied with the sufficiency of Del Sol’s counsel’s affidavit to meet Del Sol’s burden of demonstrating willful disobedience. C. Conclusion Del Sol’s motion for an order to show cause why non-party HMP should not be held in contempt is DENIED.     Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: August 12, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 