 Case Number:  24STCV13591    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  85 
Wilmington
Savings Fund Society v. 4323 S. Vermont, LLC and Ganahl Lumber Company,
24STCV13591
Tentative decision on motion to terminate receivership: denied 



 
 
            Defendant 4324 S. Vermont, LLC
(“Vermont”) moves for an order to discharge the Receiver and terminate the
Receivership in this case.  
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply,[1]
and renders the following tentative decision.
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1.
Complaint
            On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff
Wilmington Savings Fund Society, as Trustee for Residential Mortgage
Aggregation Trust (“Wilmington”) filed the Complaint against Defendants Vermont
and Ganahl Lumber Co. (“Ganahl”), alleging causes of action for judicial foreclosure,
appointment of receiver, and injunctive relief. 
The Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows.
            
            a. The Loan 
            On or about February 1, 2022, Wilmington’s
predecessor-in-interest, Patch Lending, LLC, dba Patch of Land (“Lender”)
agreed to lend Vermont the principal amount of $4,852,500.00 as evidenced by a Loan
and Security Agreement dated February 1, 2022 and a Supplemental Addendum dated
June 23, 2023 (the “Loan Agreement”).  
In connection with the Loan Agreement, Vermont executed a
Secured Note wherein Vermont agreed to repay the Loan, plus interest (the
“Note”).  Vermont also executed a Deed of
Trust, Assignment of Leases and Rents, Fixture Filing, and Security Agreement,
which was recorded on February 9, 2022, in the Official Records of Los Angeles
County (the “DOT”) wherein Vermont pledged all of its right, title and interest
in the real property commonly known as 4324 S. Vermont Avenue, Los Angeles,
California 90037 and other property described therein.  
            Wilmington is the present holder and
owner of the Loan, Note and Deed of Trust, as evidenced by (i) an Assignment of
Deed of Trust whereby Lender assigned its interest to Churchill Funding I, LLC
(“Churchill”), which was recorded on June 7, 2022 in the Official Records of
Los Angeles County; and (ii) an Assignment of Security Instruments whereby
Churchill assigned its interest to Wilmington, which was recorded in the
Official Records of Los Angeles County on June 23, 2023, together with a
Corrective Assignment of Security Instruments dated March 8, 2024, recorded in
the Official Records of Los Angeles County on March 8, 2024, wherein Churchill
assigned the DOT to Wilmington.  
 
            b. Defaults 
            Vermont was required to repay
the Loan in full by September 1, 2023 (“Maturity Date”).  Notwithstanding its agreement to do so, Vermont
failed to repay the Loan in full by the Maturity Date.
            On or about September 6, 2023, Wilmington
and Vermont entered into a Construction Loan Extension and Deferment Agreement
(“Deferment Agreement”), whereby Vermont acknowledged that its failure to repay
the Loan in full by the Maturity Date constituted an event of default under the
Loan Documents, and Wilmington agreed to temporarily forbear from exercising
its rights and remedies under the Loan Documents.  Pursuant to the Deferment Agreement, the
Maturity Date under the Loan Documents was extended to December 1, 2023 (the
“Extended Maturity Date”).  (The Loan
Agreement, the Note, the Deed of Trust, the assignments, and the Deferment
Agreement are collectively referred to as the “Loan Documents.”) 
Vermont failed to repay the Loan in full by the Extended
Maturity Date.  Under the Loan Documents,
the failure to make all payments as and when due constitutes an Event of
Default.  
            On March 27, 2024, Wilmington
commenced non-judicial foreclosure proceedings by recording a Notice of Default
and Election to Sell under Deed of Trust (“NOD”), which was duly recorded on
March 28, 2024, in the Official Records of Los Angeles County.  
            The construction project that is the
subject of the Loan Documents (the “Project”) is a multi-story, 16-unit
apartment building in Los Angeles County.  Wilmington is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, that the Project is only 80 to 85% complete and was
abandoned by the Vermont in or around February 2024.  
            As evidenced by Vermont’s inability
to make payments in furtherance of its obligations (i.e., Loan payments,
insurance payments, and tax payments) and the voluntary bankruptcy petition
filed by Vermont’s principal, Jose Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”), Vermont’s financial
condition has suffered a materially adverse change.  Wilmington is informed and believes and
thereupon alleges that Vermont is insolvent or at immediate risk of
insolvency.  As a result of the
foregoing, Wilmington has been damaged in a sum of no less than $4,747,375.68
as of May 29, 2024, plus accruing interest, default interest, late charges and
costs, attorney fees and costs, and any other fees and amounts owed pursuant to
the Loan Documents.  Interest continues
to accrue at a daily amount of $1,848.53. 
            
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff Wilmington
filed the Complaint. 
            On June 21, 2024, the court
appointed the Receiver on Wilmington’s ex parte application.
            On July 23, 2024, the court confirmed
appointment of the Receiver. 
            On September 6, 2024, Defendant Vermont
filed its Answer. 
            On October 17, 2024, the court
denied Vermont’s ex parte application to discharge the Receivership.
 
B. Applicable Law
CCP section 564(b) provides that the court has authority to
appoint a receiver in any of the following circumstances: (1) in an action by a
vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject
any property or fund to the creditor's claim, or between partners or others
jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the application of the
plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or interest in the property or fund,
or the proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the property
or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured; (2) in an
action by a secured lender for the foreclosure of a deed of trust or mortgage
and sale of property upon which there is a lien under a deed of trust or mortgage,
where it appears that the property is in danger of being lost, removed, or
materially injured, or that the condition of the deed of trust or mortgage has
not been performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge
the deed of trust or mortgage debt; (3) after judgment, to carry the judgment
into effect; (4) after judgment, to dispose of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or pursuant to
the Enforcement of Judgments Law Title 9 (commencing with CCP §680.010), or
after sale of real property pursuant to a decree of foreclosure, during the
redemption period, to collect, expend, and disburse rents as directed by the
court or otherwise provided by law; (5) where a corporation has been dissolved,
as provided in Section 565; (6) where a corporation is insolvent, or in
imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights; (7) in an
action of unlawful detainer; (8) at the request of the Public Utilities
Commission pursuant to Section 855 or 5259.5 of the Public Utilities Code; (9)
in all other cases where necessary to preserve the property or rights of any
party; (10) at the request of the Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development, or the Attorney General, pursuant to Section 129173 of the Health
and Safety Code; (11) in an action by a secured lender for specific performance
of an assignment of rents provision in a deed of trust, mortgage, or separate
assignment document.  The appointment may
be continued after entry of a judgment for specific performance if appropriate
to protect, operate, or maintain real property encumbered by a deed of trust or
mortgage or to collect rents therefrom while a pending nonjudicial foreclosure under
power of sale in a deed of trust or mortgage is being completed; (12) in a case
brought by an assignee under an assignment of leases, rents, issues, or profits
pursuant to subdivision (g) of Section 2938 of the Civil Code.
            The appointment of a receiver is a
drastic remedy to be utilized only in “exceptional cases.”  As such, a receiver should not be appointed
unless absolutely essential and because no other remedy will serve its purpose.  City & County of San Francisco v.
Daley, (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744. 
A plaintiff who seeks appointment of a receiver of certain property,
under CCP section 564(b)(1), has the burden to establish by a preponderance of
the evidence that plaintiff has a joint interest with defendant in the
property, that the property is in danger of being lost, removed or materially
injured and that plaintiff's right to possession is probable.  Alhambra-Shumway Mines, Inc. v. Alhambra
Gold Mine Corp., (1953) 116 Cal.App.2d 869, 873.
Whenever a receiver is appointed on an ex parte basis,
the matter must be made returnable on an order to show cause (“OSC”) why the
appointment should not be confirmed.  The
OSC must be returnable no earlier than 15 days, and no later than 22 days, from
the date the order was issued.  CRC
3.1176(a).
 
            C. Statement of Facts
            1. Vermont’s Evidence[2]
            a. Background 
Vermont has worked on development of the real property at
4324 S. Vermont Avenue as a "ground-up" construction project (the
“Project”) for the past two and a half years. 
Thompson Decl., ¶4.  The project
is 85% complete, and Vermont believes it can finish the Project according to
the terms of its contract within eight months. 
Thompson Decl., ¶4.
At the inception of the Project, former Vermont CEO Gonzalez,
paid $1,200,000 to acquire the land and as a 20% deposit to receive the "Construction
Loan" in the amount of $4,852,500 to build the Project.  Thompson Decl., ¶6.  Gonzalez became unexpectedly ill with life
threatening health issues and is now forced to do dialysis treatment twice a
week just to stay alive.  Thompson Decl.,
¶5.  Due to these unforeseen health
issues, Gonzalez has been unable to work and manage the construction progress
and Jeff Thompson (“Thompson”) has replaced him as CEO of Vermont.  Thompson Decl., ¶5.  
To date, Vermont has only received $3,737,736.11 of the
original S4,852,500 Construction Loan. 
Thompson Decl., ¶9.  Plaintiff
refuses to release the remaining $l,114,763.89 of the Construction Loan and
have prevented Vermont from completing the Project.  Thompson Decl., ¶10.  
Vermont has requested an 8-month extension of time to
complete the Project.  Thompson Decl.,
¶12.  Vermont is not asking for any more
draw funds, rather only the time to complete the remaining fifteen (l5%) and
refinance the Plaintiff’s loan for payoff. 
Thompson Decl., ¶15.  
 
b. Valuation 
When completed, the property will be valued at $8,000,000 or
more.  Thompson Decl., ¶16.  The completed building will be able to
generate at least $62,640 in monthly revenue, which is more than sufficient to
refinance and pay off Plaintiff’s loan. 
Thompson Decl., ¶16.  
 
c. Settlement Attempts 
Vermont’s counsel prepared two letters making settlement
offers which purported to resolve all of the outstanding issues in the case,
including discharging the receiver and allowing Vermont to perform on the
project.  Adli Decl., ¶3.  Wilmington has been unwilling to discuss the
possibility of curing the alleged breach or of discharging the Receiver.  Adli Decl., ¶5.  All of Vermont’s attempts to discuss these
issues have been unsuccessful as Wilmington will not budge on any of these
issues, most notably discharging the Receiver. 
Adli Decl., ¶5.  
 
            2. Wilmington’s Evidence 
            a. The Loan and Vermont’s Default

            In the Loan Agreement, Lender
Patch Lending, Wilmington’s predecessor-in-interest, agreed to lend Vermont the
principal amount of $4,852,500.  Garuccio
Decl., ¶4, Ex. 1.  In the Note dated
February 1, 2022, Vermont agreed to repay the Loan in the principal amount of
$4,852,500, plus interest.  Garuccio
Decl., ¶4, Ex. 2.  
            The DOT, dated February 1, 2022, was
recorded on February 9, 2022, in the Official Records of Los Angeles County as
Document No. 20220160367.  Garuccio
Decl., ¶4, Ex. 3.  
The Assignment of Deed of Trust, recorded on June 7, 2022 in
the Official Records of Los Angeles County as Document No. 20220607412 assigned
Lender’s interest in the DOT to Churchill. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶4, Ex. 4.  The
Assignment of Security Instruments, recorded on June 23, 2023 in the Official
Records of Los Angeles County as Document No. 20230410739, together with the
Corrective Assignment of Security Instruments recorded in the Official Records
of Los Angeles County on March 8, 2024 as Instrument No. 20240156463, assigned
the DOT from Churchill to Wilmington. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶4, Ex. 5.  
            Pursuant to the Loan Documents,
Vermont was required to repay the Loan by making consecutive monthly interest
payments beginning on April 1, 2022, and continuing each month thereafter, with
all remaining principal and interest due on September 1, 2023 (the “Maturity
Date”).  Garuccio Decl., ¶6.  The last payment made by Vermont under the
Loan was on April 1, 2023.  Garuccio
Decl., ¶7.  Vermont failed to make the
May 2023 payment and failed to repay the Loan in full by the Maturity
Date.  Garuccio Decl., ¶7.  
In the Deferment Agreement, Vermont acknowledged that its
failure to repay the Loan in full by the Maturity Date constituted an Event of
Default under the Loan Documents and wilmington agreed to temporarily forbear
from exercising its rights and remedies under the Loan Documents.  Garuccio Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.  The Maturity Date was extended until the
Extended Maturity Date of December 1, 2023. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.  
Vermont failed to repay the Loan by the Extended Maturity
Date.  Garuccio Decl., ¶9.  The failure to make the payment constitutes an
Event of Default under the Loan Documents. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶9.  
            On March 27, 2024, Wilmington
commenced non-judicial foreclosure proceedings by causing a NOD to be recorded on
March 28, 2024, in the Official Records of Los Angeles County as Document No.
20240200103.  Garuccio Decl., ¶10, Ex.
7.  
            The Property had been declared tax
defaulted for failure to pay 2022 taxes, and the redemption amount, as of May
21, 2024, was $29,000.49, with monthly penalties in the amount of $338.94.  Garuccio Decl., ¶11.  Vermont also has not paid Installment 1 of
2023-2024 property taxes in the amount of at least $8,665.86 and Installment 2
of 2023-2024 property taxes in the amount of $8,675.85.  Garuccio Decl., ¶11.  As of May 21, 2024, tax liens against the
Property totaled at least $46,342.20, with monthly penalties continuing to accrue.  Garuccio Decl., ¶11, Ex. 8.  
 
            b. Other Events of Default
            The Project is a multi-story,
16-unit apartment building.  Garuccio
Decl., ¶12.  Wilmington is informed and
believes that, at the time this action was commenced, the Project was
approximately 80 to 85% complete and had been abandoned by Vermont in February
2024, as Vermont had failed to respond to multiple inquiries since February
2024.  Garuccio Decl., ¶12.  Failure to maintain the Property and promptly
perform all repairs necessary to preserve the Property’s value constitutes
Events of Default under the Loan Documents. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶12.  
            Plaintiff is informed and believes
that Vermont failed to pay the insurance premiums for the Property.  Garuccio Decl., ¶13.  As such, Vermont’s insurance for the Property
lapsed on or around March 15, 2024, and Vermont has not reinstated its
insurance policy.  Garuccio Decl.,
¶13.  Failure to insure the Property in
accordance with the Loan Documents constitutes an Event of Default.  Garuccio Decl., ¶13.  
            On or about December 6, 2022, Defendant
Ganahl recorded a mechanic’s lien against the Property, as Document No.
20221138908.  Garuccio Decl., ¶14, Ex.
9.  Wilmington is informed and believes
that on or about March 1, 2023, Ganahl filed a lawsuit against Vermont and
Gonzalez, for breach of contract, common counts, and foreclosure of mechanics’
lien in LASC 23STCV04490.  Garuccio
Decl., ¶15.  Ganahl thereafter recorded a
lis pendens against the Property. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶15.  
            Gregory Seifert (“Seifert”) and MDW
Holding, LLC (“MDW”) also recorded a lis pendens against the Property, recorded
in the Official Records of Los Angeles County as Document No. 20230701460.  Garuccio Decl., ¶16.  Based on the allegations set forth in a
complaint on file in LASC 23STCV24953, Wilmington is informed and believes that
Seifert and MDW allege that Vermont used a loan by Seifert and MDW to improve
the Property instead of the real property that was collateral for their loan.  Garuccio Decl., ¶16.  
            On or about November 11, 2023,
Gonzalez filed a voluntary petition for individual bankruptcy in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California, Case No.
2:23-bk-17372-BR.  Garuccio Decl.,
¶18.  This constitutes a material adverse
change in Vermont’s financial condition. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶18.  Such an
event constitutes an Event of Default under the Loan Documents.  Garuccio Decl., ¶18. 
 
            c. The Property’s Value
            As a result of the foregoing, Lender
has been damaged in a sum of no less than $4,747,375.68 as of May 29, 2024,
plus continually accruing interest, default interest, late charges and costs,
attorneys’ fees and costs, and any other fees and amounts owed pursuant to the
Loan Documents.  Garuccio Decl.,
¶21.  
In or around April 2024, Wilmington commissioned an
independent Broker Opinion of Value from a commercial real estate services
firm, Lee & Associates, which was prepared by Matthew C. Sullivan.  Garuccio Decl., ¶19.  The firm found the Property valued at $4.7M-$5M.  Garuccio Decl., ¶19.  It appears that the value of the Property may
likely be insufficient to pay the outstanding indebtedness.  Garuccio Decl., ¶20.  
             
            d. The Receivership 
            Wilmington filed the Complaint on
May 30, 2024.  Still Decl., ¶2.  On June 11, 2024, Wilmington filed an ex
parte application for appointment of a receiver.  Still Decl., ¶3.  Email notice was provided to Vermont’s
counsel in another lawsuit concerning a lis pendens on the Property.  Still Decl., ¶4.  Email notice also was given to Gonzalez, the
owner of the membership interests in Vermont, and, until recently, Defendant’s
agent for service of process.  Still
Decl., ¶6, Ex. 1.  
There was no opposition to the ex parte application.  Still Decl., ¶7.  On June 21, 2024, the court appointed the Receiver
and set an OSC to confirm the appointment. 
Still Decl., ¶8.  Wilmington was
ordered to post a bond, which it did, and personally to serve Vermont with the OSC,
supporting papers, and the Summons and Complaint.  Still Decl., ¶8.  
            In accordance therewith, Wilmington began
to undertake service efforts, initially through a private process server,
Nationwide Legal, LLC.  Still Decl., ¶9,
Ex. 2.  Wilmington discovered that Vermont’s
address on file with the Secretary of State had been abandoned.  Still Decl., ¶9, Ex. 2.  Wilmington then retained the services of
Transwest Investigations, Inc. (“TWI”) to locate and personally serve Gonzalez
on behalf of Vermont.  Still Decl.,
¶10.  TWI located Gonzalez’s residence
and, on June 22, 2024, was able to effectuate personal service of the Summons, Complaint,
OSC, and moving papers on Vermont through Gonzalez as its agent for service of
process and managing member at 9365 Gallatin Road, Downey, CA.  Still Decl., ¶10, Ex. 3.  
            The OSC confirming the Receiver’s
appointment was heard on July 23, 2024. 
There was no opposition and on July 29, 2024, the court entered its
Order Confirming Appointment of Receiver and Preliminary Injunction.  Still Decl., ¶12.  Notice of entry of the order was duly served
on Vermont.  Still Decl., ¶12.  
            On December 20, 2024, Wilmington
accessed the California Secretary of State website and searched for
Vermont.  Still Decl., ¶15.  Vermont’s most recent Statement of
Information shows that it has amended its agent for service of process to be Thompson.  Still Decl., ¶15, Ex. 4-5.  
 
            D. Analysis
            Defendant Vermont moves to terminate
the Receivership, discharge the Receiver, and stop the sale of the Property on
the grounds that (1) Wilmington has not properly posted a bond as required by
CCP section 566(b), (2) although Wilmington claims Vermont has defaulted on the
Loan, it ignores the fact that over $1 million was not disbursed, (3)
Wilmington intentionally failed to serve Vermont properly, inequitably moved
for appointment of a receiver, and Vermont has never had the opportunity for
counsel to argue that a receivership is not necessary, and (4) Vermont is
ready, willing, and able to complete the Project.  None of these arguments is well taken.
 
1.     
Vermont Is in Default 
Vermont argues that Wilmington obfuscates the fact that the
Loan was never completely disbursed.  The
Loan amount was $4,852,500, but only $3,737,000 was disbursed.  Yet, Wilmington maintains that it is owed in
excess of $4,959,000.  Even if it is assumed
that these numbers are completely accurate and do not offend usury laws or
lending requirements, it is inexplicable that Vermont can be found to be in
default on a loan which has not been fully disbursed.  Mot. at 5.
This argument is untenable. 
Lender agreed to lend Vermont the principal amount of $4,852,500.  Garuccio Decl., ¶4, Ex. 1.  In the Note dated February 1, 2022, Vermont
agreed to repay the Loan in the principal amount of $4,852,500, plus
interest.  Garuccio Decl., ¶4, Ex.
2.  Pursuant to the Loan Documents,
Vermont was required to repay the Loan by making consecutive monthly interest
payments beginning on April 1, 2022, and continuing each month thereafter, with
all remaining principal and interest due on the Maturity Date of September 1,
2023.  Garuccio Decl., ¶6.  Vermont failed to make the May 2023 payment
and failed to repay the Loan in full by the Maturity Date.  Garuccio Decl., ¶7.  
In the Deferment Agreement, Vermont acknowledged that its
failure to repay the Loan in full by the Maturity Date constituted an Event of
Default under the Loan Documents and wilmington agreed to temporarily forbear
from exercising its rights and remedies under the Loan Documents.  Garuccio Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.  The Maturity Date was extended until the
Extended Maturity Date of December 1, 2023. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6. 
Vermont failed to repay the Loan by the Extended Maturity Date.  Garuccio Decl., ¶9.  
As Wilmington argues (Opp. at 11) the Loan was not fully
disbursed because Vermont abandoned the Project. Vermont failed to complete the
Project (or refinance the Loan) within the time contemplated by the Loan
Documents, despite an extension of the Maturity Date.  This was a default. The fact that the Loan
was not entirely disbursed has no bearing on Vermont’s default for failure to
repay the Loan because Vermont makes no showing that any undisbursed Loan
proceeds should have been disbursed.[3]
 In fact, the evidence shows that Vermont
abandoned the Project in February 2024. 
Garuccio Decl., ¶12.  
 
2.     
The Notice and Service Were Proper
Vermont argues that, while it was diligently working on the Project,
CEO Gonzalez had a very serious kidney illness due to diabetes that rendered
him unable to work and required dialysis treatment twice a week.  This unexpected illness led to issues with Vermont’s
performance.  Mot. at 6.
The ex parte application to appoint a receiver was not
served on Vermont but was improperly served on Gonzales’ personal bankruptcy
attorney.  The service was improper. Wilmington
did not serve Vermont at its registered location for service but instead served
Gonzalez’ personal bankruptcy attorney. Id. That attorney never represented
Vermont. Wilmington never served the lawyer for Vermont or any officer of
Vermont.  Wilmington was aware of Gonzalez’
bankruptcy and should have known that serving his bankruptcy lawyer would not
constitute valid service.  Mot. at 6.
Gonzalez was later served with the OSC, but this was done at
his own home at a time when he was essentially incapacitated.  Wilmington knew or at least should have known
that Gonzalez was severely ill and that he was too incapacitated to read or
respond. This is evidence of sharp behavior by Wilmington to get a receiver
appointed when Gonzalez was at his most vulnerable. Tellingly, Wilmington made
no effort to serve Gonzalez’ partners or any lawyer that has represented
Vermont. Mot. at 6-7.
Due to these improprieties in service, Vermont has never been
afforded a meaningful opportunity to contest the appointment of the
Receivership and has not had an attorney to represent its interests.  General principles of law and equity mandate
that it should be afforded the opportunity to “have his day in court” and
explain why the Receivership is not necessary. California law and equity
principles favor adjudication on the merits and avoidance of decisions that are
based on mistake, surprise or inadvertence.  See generally Aldrich v. San
Fernando Valley Lumber Co., (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 725 (“It is the policy of
the law to favor a hearing on the merits whenever possible… [t]his policy
disapproves a party who ‘attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise,
inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary…”).  It is patently unfair for a party to take
advantage of another’s inability to defend itself.  Mot. at 8.
Vermont is incorrect. 
First, email notice of the June 21, 2024 ex parte application was
provided both to Vermont’s counsel in another lawsuit concerning a lis pendens
on the Property (Still Decl., ¶4) and to Gonzalez, who was the owner of the
membership interests in Vermont and its then agent for service of process.  Still Decl., ¶6, Ex. 1.  No more was required for the ex parte
hearing.
            After Wilmington discovered that
Vermont’s address on file with the Secretary of State had been abandoned, notice
of the July 23, 2023 OSC hearing re: confirmation of the Receiver’s appointment
was given to Gonzalez through personal service of all pertinent papers at his
home.  Still Decl., ¶¶ 9-10, Exs. 2-3.  Notice of entry of the order confirming the
Receiver’s appointment subsequently was duly served on Vermont.  Still Decl., ¶12.  
            As for Vermont’s claim that
Wilmington committed a sharp practice by taking advantage of Gonzalez’ illness
to obtain appointment of a receiver, Vermont had ample notice to prepare an
opposition to the OSC confirming the appointment and did not do so.  Vermont’s argument that Wilmington knew or
should have known about Gonzalez’ illness is unsupported by any evidence of
Gonzalez’ illness or that dialysis two days a week prevented him from retaining
counsel to defend Vermont or asking his partners to do the same.  Wilmington also points out that Vermont has
waited three months after filing its Answer to contest the Receivership.  Opp. at 12. 
Vermont’s failure to explain this delay is an implicit admission that it
is appropriate. 
            Notice of Wilmington’s ex parte
application for appointment of a receiver and service of the papers for the OSC
were properly made and did not constitute an inequitable practice.
 
3.     
The Amount of Bond
Vermont notes that CCP section 566(b) and CRC 3.1178 require that,
when a receiver is appointed on an ex parte basis, the plaintiff must
post a bond for all damages the defendant may sustain in case the plaintiff shall
have procured the appointment wrongfully, maliciously, or without sufficient
cause.  Wilmington posted a bond of only
$1500, which Vermont describes as miniscule and the Receivership should be
discharged.  Mot. at 3-4.
Although Wilmington relies on the wrong statute[4],
the court issued the $1500 amount of the ex parte bond on the basis that
the ex parte application was unopposed. 
If Vermont believes the amount is too low, it should have sought a bond
increase.  It cannot obtain discharge of
the Receivership on the ground that the bond is too low.
 
4.     
Vermont Has Not Shown That It is
Ready, Willing, and Able to Pay the Loan
Vermont admits that there was a slight delay in performance
due to an unforeseen illness, but now it is ready, willing and able to complete
the Project.  Vermont retained an
attorney in late August of 2024 and that attorney reached out to Wilmington to
discuss alternative forms of resolution. 
However, Wilmington has been unwilling to even discuss resolution.   Mot. at 9.
Vermont’s new CEO Thompson has had no contact with either Wilmington
or the Receiver.  He proposes the
following: (1). Thompson would like a walk-through to view the Project and the work
that remains; (2). He has the funding and construction partners to complete the
Project; (3) Thompson and his partners are not asking for any more draw funds,
only time to complete the remaining 15% of the Project and refinance the Loan
for payoff; (4) He seeks a re-negotiated reinstatement agreement and a
reasonable time period to complete the Project; (5) Vermont has offered to make
the monthly payments during this time.  Unfortunately,
Wilmington has been unwilling to discuss these matters, presumably because it
seeks to sell the building and make a financial windfall. Mot. at 9-10.
The court always is interested in settlement of the lawsuits
before it, but there is no legal basis to compel Wilmington to settle.  Vermont is in default on the Loan and the
Receiver was properly appointed to sell the Property.   The Receiver has a purchase agreement with a
buyer to sell the Property for $4.5 million. 
Vermont does not show that it is ready, willing, and able to pay off the
Loan – as opposed to completing the Project – which is the only ground on which
it legally could ask the court to terminate the Receivership and prevent the
Receiver from selling the Property.[5]
 
E. Conclusion 
Defendant Vermont’s motion to terminate the Receivership,
discharge the Receiver, and stop the sale of the Property is denied.


