  Case Number:  24STCP02648    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  85 
Ana Maria Samaniego and
Estate of Consuelo Echavarri v. Southern California
Regional Rail Authority, 24STCP02648 

Tentative decision on petition to
file a late claim: denied




 
Petitioners Ana Maria Samaniego (“Samaniego”) and the Estate
of Consuelo Echavarri (“Estate”) apply for leave to file a late claim for
damages against Respondent Southern California Regional Rail Authority dba
Metrolink (“Metrolink”).  
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision.
 
A. Statement of the Case
Petitioners Samaniego and the Estate filed the Petition on August
20, 2024, seeking leave to file a late claim against Metrolink pursuant to Government
Code section 946.6.  The operative
pleading is the First Amended Petition (“FAP”) filed on October 30, 2024.  The FAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.
Petitioners' wrongful death and survivor claims arise out of an
auto vs. train collision on September 30, 2023, resulting in the death of
Consuelo Echavarri (“Decedent”). 
Government claims for Petitioners Samaniego and the Estate were filed
once the probate court assigned a Special Administrator for the Estate on March
26, 2024.  
Petitioners prepared and served four government claims which were
filed and served by mail on March 29, 2024.  The claims were served by mail with Los
Angeles County-Metropolitan Transportation Authority ("MTA"), the
State of California, the City of Santa Fe, and the County of Los Angeles
(“County”).  At the time of claim filing,
neither the traffic report nor the coroner’s report had been finalized.  Accordingly, Petitioners lacked potentially
helpful information all responsible government entities which could be gleaned from
the referenced reports.  
On April 9, 2024, Petitioners' counsel received a voicemail
from "Jennifer" at Carl Warren & Company, MTA’s’ claim adjuster,
who stated that MTA might not be a proper party for a government claim and instead
that a Metrolink train might have been involved and it would be the more
appropriate entity.  Prior to April 9,
2024, Petitioners were unaware of Metrolink’s involvement.  
Within seven days of discovering Metrolink's potential
involvement, Petitioners' counsel prepared the Application to File a Late
Government Claim and sent a service agent to personally serve the application
and claim with Metrolink.  Petitioners' application
was duly served on April 17, 2024. 
Petitioners' Applications were denied on May 14, 2024. 
 
B. Applicable Law
Under the Government Claims Act (the “Act”), a plaintiff
bringing suit for monetary damages against a public entity or employees thereof
must first present a claim to the public entity which must be acted upon or
deemed rejected by the public entity. 
Government Code[1]
§§945.4, 950.2, 950.6(a).  To be timely,
a government claim for damages must be presented to the public entity within 6
months of the date the cause of action accrued. 
§911.2. 
If a plaintiff fails to file a government claim within the
6-month period, he or she may apply to the public entity for permission to file
a late claim.  §911.4.  Such an application must be presented within
a reasonable time, and not later than one year after the cause of action’s
accrual.  §911.4(b).  
If the public entity denies the application for permission to
file a late claim, the plaintiff may file a civil petition for relief from
section 945.4's requirement of timely claim presentation prior to suit.  §946.6. 
The petition must be filed within six months after the application to
the public entity is denied or deemed to be denied.  §946.6(b). The petition must show: (1) that
an application was made to the public entity under section 911.4 and was denied
or deemed denied; (2) the reason for failure to timely present the claim to the
public entity within the time limit specified in section 911.2; and (3) the
information required by section 910. 
§946.6(b).




The court shall grant relief only if it finds that (1) the
application to the public entity for leave to file a late claim was made within
a reasonable time not to exceed one year after accrual of the claim as
specified in section 911.4(b), (2) was denied or deemed denied by the public
agency pursuant to section 911.6,  and
(3) one or more of the following is applicable: (a) the failure to timely
present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect, unless the public entity establishes that it would be prejudiced in
the defense of the claim if the court relieves the petitioner from the
requirements of section 945.4; (b) the person who sustained the alleged injury,
damage or loss was a minor during all of the time specified in section 911.2
for the presentation of the claim; (c) the person who sustained the alleged
injury, damage or loss was physically or mentally incapacitated during all of
the time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim and by
reason of that disability failed to present a claim during that time; or (d)
the person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss died before the
expiration of the time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of the
claim.  §946.6(c).
 
C. Statement of Facts
1. Petitioners’ Evidence 
Judy Perez, Esq. (“Judy”)[2]
is the counsel of record for Petitioners. 
Judy Decl., ¶1.  On or about September 30, 2023,
Decedent was involved in an auto vs. train collision in the City of Santa Fe
Springs.  Judy Decl., ¶2.  Echavarri passed away on October 1,
2023.  Judy Decl., ¶2.  
Prior to filing any government claims, Petitioners duly
established the Estate in the probate court naming Decedent’s brother, Carlos
Samaniego, as Administrator for the Estate.  Judy Decl., ¶3; Frank Decl., ¶2.  Petitioners needed to establish the Estate in
order to properly make a claim under the Act. 
Judy Decl., ¶4.  Despite diligent
efforts by probate counsel, the order to establish the Estate and assign a
Special Administrator was not approved until March 26, 2024.  Judy Decl., ¶3.  
On March 29, 2024, Judy prepared and served by mail four
government claims on behalf of Petitioners Samaniego (Decedent's mother) and the
Estate.  Judy Decl., ¶5, Ex, 1.  Judy filed claims with MTA, the State of
California, the City of Santa Fe, and the County.  Judy Decl., ¶6.  Judy personally mailed the government
claims.  Judy Decl., ¶5.  
Neither the traffic report nor the coroner’s report had been
finalized when the government claims were filed.  Judy Decl., ¶6; Frank Decl., ¶4.  Accordingly, at the time of the claim filing,
Judy’s office lacked potentially helpful information regarding the government
entities responsible which could be gleaned from the referenced reports.  Judy Decl., ¶6; Frank Decl., ¶5.  
On April 9, 2024, Judy’s office received a voicemail from a
"Jennifer" who identified herself as MTA’s claims adjuster at Carl
Warren & Company.  Judy Decl., ¶7:
Frank Decl., ¶6.  She stated that MTA may
not be a proper respondent for a government claim and that Metrolink may be the
more appropriate government entity with which to file a claim.  Judy Decl., ¶7.  Prior to April 9, 2024, Petitioners’ counsel
was unaware of Metrolink’s potential involvement.  Judy Decl., ¶7; Frank Decl., ¶8.  
Within seven days of discovering Metrolink's involvement,
Judy prepared an application to file a late government claim and sent her
service agent to personally file and serve Metrolink with the application and
accompanying claim.  Judy Decl., ¶8.  However, the service agent called Judy and
informed her that the lobby guard at the building would not allow him to go up to
Metrolink's floor to file the application. 
Judy Decl., ¶8.  The lobby guard
called Metrolink's legal department, but no one was present to accept the application.  Judy Decl., ¶8.  The service agent told Judy that he had been instructed
to return the following day, April 17, 2024, at which time someone would be
present at Metrolink to accept the application. 
Judy Decl., ¶8. The service agent returned on April 17, 2024 and filed
the application.  Judy Decl., ¶9, Ex. 2.  
Judy subsequently received denials of the application dated
May 14, 2024.  Judy Decl., ¶9, Ex.
3.  
 
2. Metrolink’s Evidence 
On October 31, 2024, Petitioners Samaniego and the Estate
filed a complaint against Metrolink for damages, alleging negligence, wrongful
death, dangerous condition of public property, and a survival action.  Zarone Decl., ¶2.  Metrolink was served with the complaint on November
19, 2024.  Zarone Decl., ¶3.  Metrolink has had to retain counsel, Hanson
Bridgett LLP, to defend the action and has begun expending litigation resources
to attack the pleading via demurrer.  Zarone
Decl., ¶4.  
On December 6, 2024, while investigating Petitioners’ claim
of excusable neglect, Metrolink’s counsel, Jacob T. Zarone, Esq. (“Zarone”)
Googled the phrase “Santa Fe Springs, California Train,” and the first result
to appear was a link to the Metrolink website. 
Zarone Decl., ¶5.  
Zarone reviewed the coroner’s report and the traffic crash report
for the incident.  Zarone Decl., ¶6, Ex.
A-B.  Neither identifies Metrolink as
being involved in the incident.  Zarone Decl.,
¶6. 
 
3. Reply Evidence 
Petitioners filed the Petition on August 20, 2024 and subsequently
filed the FAP on October 30, 2024.  Nathaniel
Reply Decl., ¶5.  
On September 20, 2024, Petitioners received notice that
Metrolink had retained counsel. 
Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶8, Ex. 5. 

Petitioners had a limited amount of time within which to file
their complaint against the entities which had denied their claims.  Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶6.  As such on October 31, 2024, Petitioners
filed a complaint against all known defendants, including Metrolink.  Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶6.  Petitioners served Metrolink with the complaint
on November 19, 2024.  Nathaniel Reply Decl.,
¶6.  
On December 10, 2024, Petitioners offered Metrolink an
extension of time to respond to the complaint until the FAP in this case has been
adjudicated.  Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶7.  Respondent Metrolink's counsel declined the
offer and informed Petitioners’ counsel that it would be filing a demurrer to the
Complaint.  Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶7.  Metrolink filed its demurrer on December 19,
2024, and the hearing is set for April 9, 2025. 
Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶7, Ex. 6. 

The incident occurred at the intersection of Rosecrans
Boulevard and Marquardt Avenue, at approximately 14000 Marquardt Avenue, Santa
Fe Springs, California.  Nathaniel Reply Decl.,
¶9.  A Google search of "Santa Fe
Springs, California Train" yields the Norwalk/Santa Fe Springs Train
Station Transportation Center at 12650 Imperial Highway, Norwalk, CA 90650.  Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶9.  Given that there are two MTA bus stops around
the subject intersection, Petitioners made the good faith determination that MTA
operated, controlled, and/or maintained the intersection and could not have
predicted Metrolink's potential involvement. 
Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶9.  
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner seeks relief from their
failure to timely make a government claim. 

 
1. Accrual of the Claim
A cause of action accrues at the time a claim is complete
with all of its elements.  Norgart v.
Upjohn, (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397. 
An exception to this usual rule exists where accrual is delayed until
the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.  Id. 
A plaintiff has reason to discover a cause of action when he or she “has
reason to at least suspect factual basis for its elements.”  Id.
Petitioners’ claim accrued on September 30, 2023, when the
accident occurred.  
 
2. Presentation of the Claim
Section 911.2 mandates that claims based on causes of action
for death and personal injury must be presented “not later than six months
after the accrual of the cause of action.”
To be timely, Petitioners were required to present their
claim to Metrolink within six months of September 30, 2023, or by March 30, 2024.  §911.2. 
Petitioners presented their claim on April 17, 2024, 18
days late.  



 
3. The application to the public entity for leave to
file a late claim was made within a reasonable time not to exceed one year
after accrual of the claim  
The application to the public entity for permission to file a
late claim must be presented within a reasonable time, and not later than one
year after the cause of action’s accrual. 
§911.4(b).  
Petitioners’ claim accrued on September 30, 2023 and they
were required to present their application for leave to file a late claim by September
30, 2024.  The application was presented to Metrolink on April 17,
2024.  This was within a year.  
Petitioners
note that their application was made just eight days after learning about
Metrolink’s potential responsibility for the incident, which was reasonable.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9.  Metrolink does not dispute that the
application was presented within a reasonable amount of time.  
 
4. The
application was denied or deemed denied by the public agency pursuant to
section 911.6.  
Metrolink
denied the application to present a late claim on May 14, 2024. 
 
5. The
Petition is Timely 
The
petition for leave to file a late claim must be filed with the court within six
months after the application to the
public entity is denied or deemed to be denied.  §946.6(b).  The
Petition was filed on August 20, 2024, within six months of Metrolink’s May 14,
2024 denial of leave to present a late claim. 
 
6. The
failure to timely present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.  
The purpose of the Claims Act is to
provide the public entity sufficient information to enable it to adequately
investigate claims and settle them, if appropriate, without the expense of
litigation.  City of San Jose v.
Superior Court, (“City of San Jose”) (1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 455.  Timely compliance
with the claim’s presentation is a mandatory prerequisite to maintaining a
cause of action against a public entity and failure to file a claim is fatal to
the claimant’s cause of action.  Pacific Telegraph & Telephone Co.
v. County of Riverside, (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 83, 188; San Leandro
Police Officers Assoc. v. City of San Leandro, (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d
553.  
Mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect applies to the six-month period after the accident and not to
the late claim presentation requirement of a reasonable time not to exceed one
year period.  El Dorado Irrig. Dist.
v. Superior Court, (1979) 98 Cal.App.3d 57, 62.  Excusable neglect is neglect which might have
been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances.  Ebersol v. Cowan,
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 427, 435; Department of Water
& Power v. Superior Court, (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1294.   Ignorance of the claim’s filing deadline is no
excuse.  Harrison v. Count of Del Norte, (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 1,
7; Drummond v. County of Fresno, (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1406, 1412. 
Mere failure to discover a fact does not constitute excusable neglect for
failing to present a timely claim; the party seeking relief must establish the
failure to discover the fact in the exercise of reasonable diligence.  Munoz
v. State of California, (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1767, 1783.  “It
is not the purpose of remedial statutes to grant relief from defaults which are
the result of inexcusable neglect of parties or their attorneys in the
performance of latter’s obligation to their clients.”  Tammen v. San Diego County, (1967)
66 Cal.2d 468, 478.
Once a party retains counsel, that attorney must diligently
investigate facts, identify possible defendants, and timely file the
claim.  Ebersol v. Cowan, supra,
35 Cal.3d at 439.  A mere mistake of
counsel does not provide a basis for granting relief.  Tackett v. City of Huntington Beach,
(1994) 22 Cal. App. 4th 60, 64-65.  A
mere failure to discover a fact does not constitute excusable neglect for
failing to present a timely claim; the party seeking relief must establish the
failure to discover the fact in the exercise of reasonable diligence.  Munoz v. State of California, (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1767, 1783.  A mistake or
neglect by an attorney is imputed to the client and may not be offered by the
latter as a basis for relief.  Mitchell
v. Department of Transportation, (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 1016, 1021.
Petitioners
contends that their failure to comply with the claim’s presentation requirement
was due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect because they
were unaware of Metrolink’s potential involvement.  Judy Decl., ¶7.  They argue that
they were diligent in preparing government claims against all entities they
initially believed were responsible for the incident, as shown by their government
claims served on March 29, 2024.  Without
the necessary information contained in the traffic crash report and/or
coroner’s report, they filed claims against all entities they thought may be
responsible based on a reasonable assumption. 
Petitioners were “surprised” to discover that Metrolink may be
responsible when they received information from MTA.  Once Petitioners discovered Metrolink’s
potential involvement, they diligently served the application for leave to file
a late claim just eight days later (and the Application would have been served
within seven days if someone from Metrolink were present to accept
service).  Petitioners submit that this
“neglect” in failing to timely get their claim to Metrolink was excusable. Pet.
Op. Br. at 9-10. 
Petitioners rely on Bettancourt v. Los Rios Community College
Dist., (“Bettancourt”) (1986) 42 Cal.3d
270, 275, where the claimant’s counsel made an erroneous assumption that
employees of Sacramento City College were state employees and failed to remedy
the error within the time frame for government claims.  Bettancourt’s counsel was confused by the
blend of state and local control and funding and filed a claim with the State
when he/she should have filed with the Los Rios Community College
District.  The Supreme Court held that
counsel’s error was reasonable in light of the confusing blend of state and
local control and funding of the higher education system and that counsel acted
diligently once he discovered his error. Pet. Op. Br. at 9. 
Petitioners argue that, as in Bettancourt, their counsel was
diligent in investigating and pursuing the claims, as well as remedying the
error once it was discovered.  Petitioners
had no way of knowing that Metrolink was involved until they received the call
from the MTA claims adjuster.  Pet. Op.
Br. at 9.
As Metrolink argues (Opp. at 7-8)[3],
Petitioners fail to show excusable neglect in their attorney’s failure to
discover Metrolink’s potential liability. 
Petitioners argue that they attempted to diligently serve all potential
government entities involved in the accident, but they make no showing of the steps
actually taken to identify potentially liable government entities.  Petitioners present no evidence concerning the
timely retention of counsel and what efforts their counsel undertook to
identify potential defendants during the permissible six-month claim period.  The Petition acknowledges that plaintiffs
hired probate counsel within the six-month period to open the Estate, but
neither probate counsel nor other counsel provides a declaration showing what they
did to investigate the claims, identify potential defendants, and advise Petitioners
of their obligations under the Act.  
Petitioners seem to think that they had
no duty to do more than receive and review information from law enforcement and
the coroner, claiming that “necessary information was not available” during the
six-month claim period because neither the traffic report nor the
coroner’s report had been finalized when the government claims were filed.  Judy Decl., ¶6.  Accordingly, at the time of the claim filing,
their counsels’ office lacked potentially helpful information regarding the
government entities responsible which could be gleaned from the referenced
reports.  Judy Decl., ¶6.
To meet the diligence requirement, Petitioners
must affirmatively investigate, not just sit back and wait for reports or rely
on a MTA claims adjuster to provide information.  Metrolink shows that a simple Google search
of “Santa Fe Springs, California Train” would have shown Metrolink’s potential
involvement because the first result that appears is a link to the Metrolink
website.  Zarone Decl., ¶5.
Petitioners also fail to explain when
the traffic and coroner reports were requested and received, and what
information they provided that would have helped identify Metrolink as a
potential defendant.  In fact, neither
report suggests Metrolink’s involvement in the incident.  Zarone Decl.,¶6, Exs. A-B. Thus, Petitioners
cannot blame the lack of reports as an excuse for not timely identifying Metrolink
as a potential defendant.
In reply, Petitioners argue that they hired a probate firm to
open the Estate approximately one month following the incident, and it took
months to establish the Estate in the probate court. Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶3.  The order establishing the Estate and assigning
a Special Administrator was not approved until March 26, 2024.  Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶3, Ex. 4.  Petitioners could not legally file their
government claims until that time.  Had
Petitioners been able to file their government claims earlier, then MTA’s
warning regarding Metrolink’s potential involvement would have allowed
Petitioners the ability to timely file a government claim with Metrolink.  Reply at 6.
Petitioners do not distinguish between Samaniego and the
Estate for purposes of investigating and making a claim against Metrolink.  Samaniego did not need to wait until the
Estate was established to make a wrongful death claim to Metrolink.  Petitioners’ counsel should have been
investigating the potential defendants during the pendency of the probate
petition for the Estate.  Petitioners
also had time to file the Estate’s claim with Metrolink before the six-month
deadline passed on March 30, 2024.[4]

Petitioners further argue that, although Metrolink claims that a simple Google
search of “Santa Fe Springs, California Train” would indicate its potential
involvement, this search yields the Norwalk/Santa Fe Springs Train Station
Transportation Center at 12650 Imperial Highway, Norwalk, CA 90650.  The incident occurred at the Intersection of
Rosecrans Boulevard and Marquardt Avenue, at approximately 14000 Marquardt
Avenue, Santa Fe Springs, CA.  Given that
there are two MTA bus stops around the subject intersection, Petitioners made
the good faith determination that MTA operated, controlled, and/or maintained the
intersection, and could not have predicted Respondent Metrolink’s potential
involvement.  Nathaniel Reply Decl., ¶9.  Reply at 8.
The short answer is that the Google search shows Metrolink’s
website. Zarone Decl., ¶5.  Petitioners
fail to explain what investigation they made to reach a good faith
determination that MTA, and not Metrolink, has responsibility for a train v.
car accident.  They are not mutually
exclusive; both could bear responsibility. 
This is not a case like Bettancourt, supra, 42 Cal.3d at 275, where the claimant’s counsel made an
erroneous assumption that employees of Sacramento City College were state
employees and was confused by the blend of state and local control and
funding.  Petitioners fail to present any
evidence that their counsel investigated the ownership and control of the railroad
crossing at issue.
Petitioners fail to demonstrate the
requisite diligence to be relieved from the requirement to timely present a
claim against Metrolink.[5]

 
E. Conclusion
            The
Petition for relief from claim filing requirements is denied.


