 Case Number:  22STCV31967    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  K  
1.         Plaintiff Ricardo Mendoza’s Motion to
Compel the Deposition of Defendant Seidner Enterprises LLC dba Bert’s Mega
Mall’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED
in part (i.e., as to Categories Nos. 1, 2, 7, 8, and 13[#2] and as to document
requests Nos. 1-4, 8, 10 and 12), with limitations [see below]) and
DENIED in part (i.e., as to Categories Nos. 3-6 and 9-13 and document requests
Nos. 5-7, 9, 11, 13 and 14). 
2.         Plaintiff Ricardo Mendoza’s Motion to
Compel the Deposition of Defendants Polaris Industries, Inc. (MN) & Polaris
Sales, Inc. is DENIED in part (i.e., as
to Category No. 2 and Requests Nos. 2 and 3) and otherwise GRANTED, with
limitations [see below].
3.         Plaintiff Ricardo Mendoza’s Motion for a
Sharing Protective Order is DENIED.
4.         See below.
Background   
Case No. 22STCV31967
Plaintiff Ricardo Mendoza
(“Plaintiff” or “Mendoza”) alleges as follows:
On October 17, 2020,
Plaintiff sustained severe injuries to his left arm after the 2016 Polaris XP 4
Turbo 1000 (an off-road UTV) (“subject vehicle”) he was riding in rolled over.
On December 5, 2022, Polaris
Industries, Inc. (MN), Polaris Sales, Inc., Polaris Industries, Inc. (DE)
(collectively, “Polaris”) filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action
against Cheyenne Rey (“Rey”) for:
1.                 
Indemnification
2.                 
Apportionment of Fault
3.                 
Negligence
On December 7, 2022, Seidner
Enterprises LLC dba Bert’s Mega Mall (“Seidner”) filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of
action against Rey and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Declaratory Relief
2.                 
Equitable Indemnity
3.                 
Contribution
4.                 
Implied Indemnity
On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against Polaris,
Seidner, Rey and Does 1-100 for:
1.                 
Strict Product Liability
2.                 
Negligence
3.                 
Failure to Warn
4.                 
Negligent Recall
On September 21, 2023, the court
related Case Nos. 22STCV22928 and 22STCV31967 and designated Case No.
22STCV22928 as the lead case.
A Case
Management Conference is set for April 10, 2024.
1.         Motion to Compel Seidner PMK Deposition
Legal Standard
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition
notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450:
A motion under subdivision (a) shall
comply with both of the following: 
 
(1)       The motion shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition
notice. 
(2)       The motion shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information,
or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance… 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b).)
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order that:
A.               
Seidner
be compelled to produce for deposition by June 27, 2023 their person(s) most knowledgeable
(“PMK”) regarding:
1.                 
The
history of the subject vehicle;
2.                 
Altering
or adding modifications to the subject vehicle, similar vehicles or other UTVs
and the ramifications;
3.                 
Its
relationship with Polaris;
4.                 
Any
insurance policy wherein coverage may exist for this lawsuit and any claims for
indemnity or tenders of defense made to or by Seidner;
5.                 
Each
individual likely to have discoverable evidence regarding the 
alterations/modifications to the subject vehicle after its original
manufacturing and distribution;
6.                 
After-market
nets;
7.                 
The
doors and nets which are sold or available for customization on the UTVs sold
by Seidner;
8.                 
Any and
all other claims against Seidner involving UTVs;
9.                 
The
differences in performance of the subject vehicle with the after-market ROPS system
as opposed to the manufacturer’s ROPS system;
10.             
Whether
the subject vehicle will tip over easier with the after-market ROPS system as opposed
to the manufacturer’s ROPS;
11.             
The
manufacturer of the after-market ROPS system installed by Seidner on the subject
vehicle;
12.             
Weight
of the after-market ROPS system and roof installed by Seidner on the subject vehicle;
13.             
The weight of the manufacturer’s ROPS
system/roof that was delivered with the subject vehicle; and
14.             
Any warnings from Polaris about the maximum
permissible weight for the ROPS or the roof of the subject vehicle, including
via aftermarket parts.
B.                
Seidner be
compelled, within 3 business days prior to the deposition, to provide 
documents and responses to the document production demands in the notice
of deposition[1] and to produce a privilege
log for any documents withheld on the basis of privilege; and that
 
C.                
All
objections to the deposition be overruled.
Procedural
Deficiencies
At the outset, the
court notes that Plaintiff’s concurrently filed separate statement reflects
non-compliance with California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345, subdivision
(c) (i.e., “The separate statement must include. . . (3) [a] statement of the
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or
production as to each matter in dispute”) as it pertains to each of the
document production requests.
Merits
Plaintiff’s counsel
John Kristensen (“Kristensen”) represents, and/or the accompanying exhibits
reflect, as follows:
On March 2, 2023, Plaintiff served a
“Notice of Deposition of Defendant Seidner Enterprises LLC dba Bert’s Mega
Mall,” setting the deposition for March 17, 2023. (Kristensen Decl., ¶ 2, Exh.
1.) On March 9, 2023, Seidner served objections. (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. 2.) On
March 21, 2023, April 4, 2023 and April 6, 2023, Kristensen reached out to
Seidner’s counsel to request a time to discuss Seidner’s objections. (Id.,
¶¶ 3, 6 and 8, Exhs. 3-5). On April 6, 2023, Seidner’s counsel Edgar Gutierrez
(“Gutierrez”) advised, inter alia, that he intended to file a motion to
compel arbitration and would be “happy to revisit this” once the arbitration
issue was resolved. (Id., ¶ 9, Exh. 6.) 
The instant motion followed on May 4, 2023.
In the instant case, Plaintiff alleges that Seidner
originally sold the subject vehicle involved in the accident and that Defendants,
including Seidner, “modified” same. (FAC, ¶¶ 2 and 30). Plaintiff asserts that
Seidner modified and changed the roll cage and roof (Motion, 5:7-8).
Seidner does not contend that Plaintiff is precluded from
taking its deposition. Seidner acknowledges that it sold the subject vehicle to
Rey and that, at the time of purchase, Rey also purchased in excess of
$12,000.00 in aftermarket parts. Seidner, however, argues that it did not install
an “after market ROPS” system on the subject vehicle or make other
modifications and that Rey has unequivocally stated under oath that Plaintiff
made modifications. There is, in fact, no evidence before the court suggesting
that Seidner made any modifications to the subject vehicle.
Seidner has agreed to produce a witness knowledgeable on the
“history of the subject vehicle” after distribution for retail sale and any
post-sale encounters with the vehicle (i.e., as to Category No. 1); on what, if
any, “modifications,” were made to the subject vehicle (with the term
“modifications” interpreted in the broadest possible sense to include any post
sale repairs requested by Rey in light of her post sale use and abuse of the
subject vehicle and with the caveat that it cannot and will not produce a
witness relating to the subject vehicle’s “modifications” or “alterations” made
by Rey or others at her request and after the vehicle was sold) (i.e., as to
Category No. 2); on doors or nets it sells for use on 2016 Polaris recreational
vehicles (i.e., as to Category No. 7); on what, if any other claims against it
have been asserted involving a 2016 Polaris recreational vehicle and the claim
involve allegations of defective occupant compartment protection components
(i.e., as to Category No. 8) and on the issue of product warnings provided by
Polaris (i.e., as to Category No. 13 [#2]). Seidner has also agreed to produce
insurance information but declines to produce any witness responsive to same
(i.e., as to Category No. 4).
Seidner asserts that it is otherwise unable to comply
because the other categories seek information that is not within Seidner’s
scope of involvement or knowledge, or the categories are unduly overbroad. As
Seidner points out, “even if the court was to strike the remainder of Bert’s
objections, the fact remains that Bert’s would be in the same circumstance- it
cannot provide what it does not have and cannot testify to what it does not
know or learn.” (Opp. Sep. State., 10:17-19). Seidner’s position is well-taken.
Categories Nos. 2, 5, 9, 11 and 12 pertain to alterations/modifications to the
subject vehicle, which Seidner apparently did not have involvement with.
Category No. 2 otherwise seeks testimony regarding alterations/modifications to
other UTVs or similar vehicles which is irrelevant. Categories Nos. 10 and 13
[#2] involve design and manufacturing specifications best addressed by Polaris,
the manufacturer.
As to the concurrent document request, Seidner has agreed to
produce sales, repair and insurance records. Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he
concurrently filed Separate Statement provides more detail for why the specific
documents should be produced” (Motion, 7:22-24); again, however, the separate
statement is entirely lacking in this regard. The court determines, then, that
Seidner’s proposed production is appropriate under the circumstances.
The motion is granted in part (i.e., as to Categories Nos.
1, 2, 7, 8, and 13[#2] and as to document requests Nos. 1-4, 8, 10 and 12),
subject to the limitations set forth above, and denied in part (i.e., as to
Categories Nos. 3-6 and 9-13 and document requests Nos. 5-7, 9, 11, 13 and 14).
2.         Motion to Compel Polaris PMK Deposition
Legal Standard
See Motion #1.
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order that:
A.               
Polaris
be compelled to produce for deposition by September 8, 2023 their person(s)
most knowledgeable (“PMK”) regarding:
1.                 
Complaints
pertaining to rollover accidents in Polaris UTVs;
2.                 
The
identity of individuals involved in the accidents resulting in complaints pertaining
to rollover accidents in Polaris UTVs;
3.                 
The
number of left arm injuries/amputations of individuals involved in the driver
side leaning rollovers resulting in complaints pertaining to rollovers in
Polaris UTVs;
4.                 
The
number of right arm injuries/amputations of individuals involved in passenger side
leaning rollovers resulting in complaints pertaining to rollovers in Polaris
UTVs; and 
5.                 
Any
efforts by Polaris to analyze the correlation between right arm injuries in passenger
side leaning rollovers with left arm injuries un driver side leaning rollovers
and any attempt to mitigate such injuries.
B.                
Polaris
be compelled, within 3 business days prior to the deposition, to provide documents and responses to the document production demands in the notice
of deposition[2] and to produce a privilege
log for any documents withheld on the basis of privilege; and that
C.                
All
objections to the deposition be overruled.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court rules on Polaris’
Request for Judicial Notice as follows: Denied as to Exhibit 1 (i.e., summary
of tentative rulings in styled Moretta v. Polaris Industries Inc., et
al., Case No. 19STCV28761 (Cal. Super. Ct. Los Angeles Cnty, Aug. 19, 2020)
[“Moretta”]); Denied as to Exhibit 2 (i.e., August 19, 2020 minute order
in Moretta); Denied as to Exhibit 3 (i.e., “Order re: Ruling on
Submitted Matter in case styled Lima v. Polaris Industries, Inc., et al.,
Case No. RG19026152 (Cal. Super. Ct. Alameda Cnty. Jan. 24, 2022); Denied as to
Exhibit 4 (i.e., May 12, 2022 minute order in case styled Duarte v. Polaris
Industries, Inc., et al., Case No. 37-2021-00034150 (Cal. Super. Ct. San
Diego Cnty. May 13, 2022); Denied as to Exhibit 5 (i.e., “Order After Pretrial
Discovery Conference” in case styled Olvera v. Polaris Industries Inc., et
al., Case No. 17CECG03825 (Cal. Super.Ct. Fresno Cnty. Nov. 30, 2018) and
Denied as to Exhibit 6 (i.e., docket in case styled Murphy v. Polaris
Industries, Inc., et al., Case No. CIVDS1620481 (Cal. Super. Ct. San
Bernardino Cnty. Nov. 17, 2017).
Merits
Kristensen represents, and/or the accompanying exhibits reflect, as
follows:
On February 13, 2023, Plaintiff served a “Notice of Deposition of
Defendants Polaris Industries, Inc. (MN) & Polaris Sales, Inc.; Demand for
Production of Documents,” setting the deposition for March 1, 2023. (Kristensen
Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) On February 23, 2023, Polaris served objections thereto. (Id.,
¶ 3, Exh. 2.) On March 6, 2023, Kristensen sent a letter to Polaris’ counsel. (Id.,
¶ 4, Exh. 3.) Polaris’ counsel Hyongsoon Kim (“Kim”) provided a response
thereto on March 13, 2023. (Id., ¶ 5, Exh. 4.) Counsel thereafter
telephonically met and conferred on March 14, 2023 and April 13, 2023 but were
unable to resolve their dispute. (Id., ¶¶ 6 and 7). 
The instant motion followed on May 10, 2023.
At the outset, the court rejects
Polaris’ contention that the court lacks jurisdiction to hear Plaintiff’s
motion, on the basis that the stay imposed pending the court’s ruling on the
motion to compel arbitration has since been lifted.
The court next considers Polaris’ contention that the instant motion is
untimely pursuant to the sixty-day deadline set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.480, subdivision (b).[3]
Plaintiff argues that Polaris’ reliance on Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of
Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011 and Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard
Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164 is misplaced, because those
cases considered the 60-day deadline in the context of a deposition subpoena
for business records, rather than a notice of deposition which is involved here.
The court agrees. Additionally, the court notes that counsel continued to meet
and confer regarding other specific instances (“OSIs”) well after the
expiration of any purported deadline. (Huennekens Decl., ¶ 13, Exh. H; Kristensen
Reply Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. 8). The court, then, will proceed to review the merits
of the motion.
In the instant case, Plaintiff alleges that on October 17,
2020, he “operated a 2016 Polaris XP 4 Turbo 100” designed, manufactured and
distributed by Polaris and that the subject vehicle “rolled over while
[Plaintiff was] using the product in a normal manner.” (FAC, ¶¶ 2, 18).
Plaintiff alleges that he “suffered an amputation of his
arm” as a result. (Id., ¶ 18). Plaintiff alleged that Polaris “designed
and manufactured the various components of the ‘rollover protection system’”
(“ROPS”) and that the ROPS “failed to keep Plaintiff within the vehicle.” (FAC,
¶¶ 19 and 21.). 
Plaintiff argues that he is entitled to discovery pertaining
to other rollover accidents involving Polaris UTV vehicles with ROPS pursuant
to Ault v. Int’l Harvester Co. (1974)
13 Cal.3d 113 and Elsworth v. Beech
Aircraft Corp. (1984) 37 Cal.3d 540. Indeed, “[e]vidence of other
accidents is admissible to prove a defective condition, knowledge, or the cause
of an accident, provided that the
circumstances of the other accidents are similar and not too remote.” (Ault, supra, 13 Cal.3d at 121-122
[emphasis added].)
Here, however, the categories and requests in the deposition
notice seek information related to any Polaris UTV. “Although the scope
of civil discovery if broad, it is not limitless. . . matters are subject to
discover if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The
burden rests upon the party seeking the discovery to provide evidence from
which the court may determine these conditions are met.” (Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223 [internal
quotations and citation omitted.)
Plaintiff does not tailor his categories or requests to a specific
vehicle, model, model year, time, or component/system at issue. Aaron Deckard
(“Deckard”), a Senior Staff Engineer at Polaris Industries Inc., explains that
even if Plaintiff’s requests were limited only to Polaris’s Ranger, General,
and RZR lines, this would encompass 1,410 different Polaris Ranger models and
options dating back to 1999, 853 Polaris RZR models and options dating back to
2008 and 170 different Polaris General models and options dating back to 2016
(Deckard Decl., ¶¶ 5, 25 and 30). While Plaintiff argues that Elsworth, supra, 37 Cal.3d 540 rejected
an argument that “evidence of other similar accidents was impermissible because
the model aircrafts were different” (Motion, 4:13-14), the evidence in Elsworth, in fact, showed that the
models had the “same design defect” which “produce[d] identical engine
stall/spin characteristics.” (Id. at
555.)
Plaintiff has not provided the court with any evidence of
any similarities between the subject vehicle and the various other lines or
models with respect to their design, materials, or ROPS; rather, the only
justification Plaintiff has offered is that all of the vehicles have a ROPS. Deckard,
though, explains that there are six different ROPS designs across the RZR
models (Id., ¶ 9), that the cab frame and occupant retention systems
(which consist of the seat belt, the hand hold, the ROPS, the seat design and
the hip bolster) on RZR vehicles have evolved over time (Id., ¶ 11),
that beginning with the 2014 model year Polaris re-designed the RZR line with
the introduction of a new platform known as the “Next” platform which, in 2015,
introduced the “c-pillar” to the ROPS system that operates differently from
prior RZR ROPS in order to support specific weight, stability limits, and
handling characteristics for that particular platform (Id., ¶ 12), that
beginning with the 2016 model year, Polaris again re-designed the RZR line with
the introduction of a new platform known as the “Champ” platform which includes
the subject vehicle (Id., ¶ 13), that the ROPS on the subject vehicle is
substantially different from the ROPS on RZR models built on platforms that
pre-date the Next and Champ platforms and youth RZR models (Id.), that
the work-oriented Ranger line is designed to be suitable for off-road use in a
wide variety of utility applications rather than for recreational use (i.e.,
like the RZR) and thus is an entirely different vehicle from RZR vehicles in
terms of design specifications, ride, handling 
and performance (Id., ¶ 23) and that the ROPS on the General is
distinct from the ROPS on the RZR, including differences in number of pillars
and tubing shaping (Id., ¶ 29).
Additionally, although Plaintiff contends that he suffered
injuries to his left arm when the subject vehicle rolled onto the driver’s side,
Plaintiff seeks categories of testimony and documents relating to other types
of accidents and injuries that are unrelated to the alleged circumstances
herein.
Plaintiff also seeks every document exchanged between
Polaris and either the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) or
Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle Association (“ROHVA”) related to rollovers in
any UTVs manufactured by any company at any time (i.e., Requests Nos. 2 and 3).
Plaintiff, however, has not provided the court with good cause for seeking
these records. There are no specific facts regarding
the documents sought, the requests for production, or the disputed facts that
are of consequence in the action to explain how the discovery sought will tend
to prove or disprove the disputed fact or lead to other evidence that will tend
to prove or disprove the fact. Plaintiff’s motion is denied in this regard.
Plaintiff seeks testimony
regarding the “identity of individuals involved in the accidents resulting in
COMPLAINTS pertaining to rollover accidents in POLARIS UTVs” (i.e., Category
No. 2) but fail to explain why he is entitled to personally identifiable
information of Polaris’s customers. Plaintiff’s motion is denied in this
regard.
Polaris has offered to produce a witness to testify
regarding, and documents pertaining to, other similar rollover incidents and
injuries that occurred in 2016 Polaris RZR XP Turbo vehicles—the model at issue
here. (Huennekens Decl., ¶ 12, Exh. I.) The court will extend Polaris’s
proposal to encompass testimony and documents pertaining to other similar
rollover incidents that occurred in RZR models with a substantially similar
ROPS as the one on the stock subject vehicle and which resulted in injuries to
upper extremities.
The motion, then, is denied in part (i.e., as to Category
No. 2 and Requests Nos. 2 and 3) and otherwise granted, consistent with the
above limitations.
3.         Motion for Sharing Protective Order
Legal Standard
“When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has
been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other
party or affected person, may move promptly for a protective order. This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).)
“The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense . . .” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).)
Where a party must resort to the courts, “the burden is on
the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is
sought.” (Fairmont ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Stadish v. Superior Court (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145 [“A party seeking the protective order must show by a
preponderance of the evidence that the issuance of a protective order is
proper”].) “[T]he issuance and formulation of protective orders are to a large
extent discretionary.” (Raymond Handling
Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order compelling Plaintiff, Polaris, Seidner and Rey to enter into
a protective order that contains a sharing provision.
Request for
Judicial Notice
The court rules on Polaris’
Request for Judicial Notice as follows: Denied as to Exhibit 1 (i.e.,
“Notice of Ruling Re: Plaintiff’s Motion for a Sharing Protective Order and
Polaris’s Motion for a Protective Order” in case styled Moretta v. Polaris
Industries Inc., et al., Case No. 19STCV28761 (Cal. Super. Ct. Los Angeles
Cnty, Dec. 17, 2020) [“Moretta”]); Denied as to Exhibit 2 (i.e., ruling
in case styled De Muñoz v. Polaris Industries Inc., et al., Case No.
22CV-1456 (Cal. Super. Ct. San Luis Obispo Cnt. June 15, 2023)); Denied as to
Exhibit 3 (i.e., “Order Motion for Protective Order Granted” in case styled Forte
v. Hyundai Motor Co., 2008 WL 8090023, Case No. RG06299899 (Cal. Super. Ct.
Alameda Cnty. Mar. 4, 2008)); Denied as to Exhibit 4 (i.e., “Protective Order”
in case styled Ward v. Polaris Industries, et al., Case No.
50C01-1708-CT-38 (Ind. Cir. Ct. Marshall Cnty. Feb. 8, 2019)); Denied as to
Exhibit 5 (i.e., excerpted “Tentative Rulings and Resolution Review Hearings”
in case styled Fereira v. Polaris Industries Inc. et al., Case No. CVPO21-
0198252 (Cal. Super. Ct. Shasta Cnty. June 13, 2022)) and Denied as to Exhibit
6 (i.e., “Case Information” in case styled Fereira v. Polaris Industries
Inc. et al., Case No. CVPO21-0198252 (Cal. Super. Ct. Shasta Cnty.)).  
Merits
Kristensen
represents, and/or the accompanying exhibits reflect, as follows:
On
April 6, 2023, Polaris served its proposed protective order upon Plaintiff and
all other parties. (Kristensen Decl., ¶ 2). Counsel for Plaintiff and Polaris
thereafter met and conferred on April 13, 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 3 and 4). On
April 17, 2023, Plaintiff served his proposed protective order, which included
a sharing provision. (Id., ¶ 5). On April 26, 2023, Polaris served
Plaintiff a letter addressing its concerns with a sharing protective order;
Plaintiff responded to same on April 28, 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 6 and 7). Since
this time, counsel have not made any progress in resolving this dispute. (Id.,
¶ 8). 
Polaris agrees that
a protective order is warranted in this case, but objects to the inclusion of a
sharing provision on the basis that it is entitled to protection of its
confidential and proprietary information.
Plaintiff’s proposed sharing provision would allow disclosure of information
that has been designated as confidential to:
            Lawyers who are investigating,
prosecuting or evaluating claims involving
POLARIS Side-by-Side vehicles in which there are allegations of product 
defect involving instability, lack of appropriate occupant protection
and/or 
appropriate speed control. In the event Plaintiff’s counsel intends to
share 
Polaris’s documents with the above identified individuals, Plaintiff’s
counsel 
must provide Polaris’s counsel with notice of the intended recipient of
the 
documents and Polaris shall have ten (10) days to file a written
objection 
with the Court before Plaintiff’s counsel shares the documents. 
 
(Kristensen Decl.,
Exh. 1, 5:10-17.)
The court determines
that Plaintiff’s moving papers fail to set forth good cause for the entry of a
sharing provision in this case. Plaintiff fails to provide the court
with specific facts or evidence that would justify the disclosure of Polaris’s
confidential information to third party counsel, and instead only generally
claims that the inclusion of a sharing provision would facilitate “the interest
in full and fair disclosure,” would further Plaintiff’s desire to “share
documents with themselves, and others who are involved in similar claims
against Polaris” and would somehow “reduce the risk of inconsistent outcomes in
product liability actions.” (Motion, 3:26, 7:12-13 and 7:7-8). As Polaris
states, if Plaintiff has legitimate concerns about inconsistent outcomes, there
exist procedures to seek coordination of cases. (Opp., 10:18-11:2).
The motion, then, is
denied.
4.         Motion for Protective Order Re: Rey
Deposition
Legal Standard
“Before, during, or
after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural
person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).)
“The court, for good
cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order
may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: That
the deposition not be taken at all. That the deposition be taken at a different
time. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order that Seidner’s deposition of Rey, originally noticed for October
4, 2023, proceed after resolution of Plaintiff’s deposition of Seidner’s PMK.
Plaintiff’s counsel
Frank M. Mihalic, Jr. (“Mihalic”) represents, and/or the accompanying exhibits
reflect, as follows: 
On
March 2, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Seidner’s PMK. (Mihalic
Decl., ¶ 3). On March 10, 2023, Seidner served its objections to the aforesaid
deposition notice. (Id., ¶ 4). On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff moved to
compel the deposition of Seidner’s PMK as noticed, and for Seidner to produce
all responsive documents to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents. (Id.,
¶ 8). On May 19, 2023, Seidner moved to compel arbitration; the case was stayed
until the court denied the motion on September 14, 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 9 and
10). On September 19, 2023, Seidner served a “Notice of Taking Remote
Videotaped Deposition of Defendant and Cross-Defendant Cheyenne Rey,”
apparently noticing Rey’s deposition for October 4, 2023. (Id., ¶ 2). The
hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Seidner’s PMK was
moved to December 8, 2023, or two months after Rey’s deposition was scheduled
to occur. (Id., ¶ 11). Counsel unsuccessfully met and conferred on
September 27, 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 19-21). 
The Discovery Act
does not recognize discovery priority based on notice alone. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2019.020, subd. (a) [“Except as otherwise provided by a rule of the Judicial
Council, a local court rule, or a local uniform written policy, the methods of
discovery may be used in any sequence, and the fact that a party is conducting
discovery, whether by deposition or another method, shall not operate to delay
the discovery of any other party”].)
However, a party may
be prevented from unilaterally altering the sequence of depositions via the
issuance of a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.020, subd. (b) [“Notwithstanding
subdivision (a), on motion and for good cause shown, the court may establish
the sequence and timing of discovery for the convenience of parties and
witnesses and in the interests of justice”].)
Plaintiff asserts
that he seeks to have Rey deposed after the resolution of the motion to compel of
Seidner’s PMK because he believes Rey’s deposition will be “more fruitful” if
he is in possession of documents concerning any repairs made to the subject
vehicle and any modifications of the subject vehicle, which documents he is
seeking from the notice of deposition directed to Seidner’s PMK. 
The motion is
unopposed. It is unclear to the court, however, whether or not the motion is
proceeding, given the fact that Rey has since provided a sworn statement under
oath. The court will hear from the parties in this regard at the time of the
hearing.


