  Case Number:  23AHCV01725    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  X Plaintiffs move for summary judgment.  Plaintiffs seek judgment on their claims for
breach of contract, specific performance, and quiet title regarding the real
property located at 9136 Steele Street, Rosemead, California (the “Subject
Premises”).  The Court did not consider Defendant’s untimely opposition, filed
and served on January 8, the day before the hearing.Tentative RulingPlaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is
granted in part and denied in part. Summary adjudication is granted as to the
second cause of action for breach of contract.  The motion is denied as to all other claims.  The Non-Jury Trial is scheduled to commence
January 21, 2025.Legal Standard“The purpose of the
law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “A party may move for summary judgement in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473c subd. (a)(1).)  “The motion for summary judgment shall be
granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to
any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.”  (Id., at § 437c, subd.
(c).) A plaintiff moving for summary judgment bears the burden to
produce admissible evidence on each element of a “cause of action” entitling
him to judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c subd. (p)(1); see Hunter v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1282, 1287 [disapproved on other grounds by Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826].)  This means that plaintiffs who bear the burden
of proof at trial by a preponderance of evidence must produce evidence that
would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact
more likely than not.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 851.)  “[O]therwise, he
would not be entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Ibid. [emphasis in original]; LLP
Mortgage v. Bizar (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 773, 776 [burden is on plaintiff
to persuade court there is no triable issue of material fact].)  At that point, the burden shifts to defendant
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)Background and Legal
AnalysisThis action involves
a dispute over property rights.  The
complaint alleges causes of action for (1) quiet title, (2) breach of contract,
and (3) declaratory relief.  Pending
before the Court is Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, which seeks
judgment on the claims for quiet title and breach of contract, and requests
specific performance as the remedy for Defendant’s breach of contract.The undisputed facts establish the following:On or about September 4, 1997, Plaintiffs and non-party Ky
Phung (a sibling who moved out of the Subject Premises in November 2001),
together with their deceased brother John Phung and his wife Defendant Nancy
Ly, purchased the real property located at 9136 Steele Street, Rosemead,
California (“Subject Premises”) with $70,000.00 as a downpayment.  (UMF 1-2.)Plaintiffs and John Phung contributed $10,000 each toward
the down payment for the Subject Premises, so that the whole family would have
a place to live and stay in the U.S. after relocation from Vietnam.  (UMF 1.)  The total down payment was $70,000, possessed
by John Phung as he was living in the U.S. at the time and was able to secure a
loan for the Subject Premises.  (UMF 1.)  The Subject Premises was placed under the
names of John Phung and Defendant Nancy Ly. (UMF 2.)Plaintiffs have continuously resided at the Subject Premises
and contributed to mortgage payments, property taxes, and maintenance costs since
its purchase.  (UMF 3-4, 29.)Following John Phung’s death in 2021, Defendant entered into
a purchase agreement with Plaintiff Sam Phung to sell the Subject Premises for
$575,000.  (UMF 25, 30.)  Both parties executed escrow instructions, and
Plaintiff deposited $582,022 into escrow held by Glen Oaks Escrow,
demonstrating his readiness and ability to perform under the agreement.  (UMF 26.)Defendant unilaterally canceled the transaction, citing
Plaintiff’s refusal to sign a California Transfer Disclosure Statement (CTDS), even
though the escrow instructions already included terms protecting Defendant from
liability and that the CTDS was not a condition of the agreement.  (UMF 27, 28, 42.)First Cause of Action for Quiet Title as to Plaintiffs’
Proportion of Ownership of the Subject PremisesAn action to quiet title establishes the plaintiff’s title
to real property against adverse claims. (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd.
(a).)  As the moving party, plaintiff
bears the burden to make out a prima facie case of ownership.  (Miller v. Boswell (1958) 162
Cal.App.2d 508, 511.)The complaint states “Plaintiff seeks quiet title as of
September 4, 1997.”  (Compl., ¶ 15.)  The motion argues the Court should quiet title
in favor of Plaintiffs as to their proportion of ownership of the Subject
Premises.  (Memorandum, p. 8.)  The motion asserts: 
Plaintiffs have established,
through written declarations, that the Plaintiffs each contributed $10,000.00
towards the downpayment of the Subject Premises.  The Plaintiffs’ contribution to partial
payment of the purchase established a necessary element of part performance.
[…]  The Plaintiffs contribution to the
downpayment, property taxes, and maintenance demonstrates these actions were
related to the purchase agreement made with the Defendant’s husband at the time
of purchasing the Subject Premises. […]  The Plaintiffs have shown that they are
entitled to proportionate ownership of the Subject Premises and asks this Court
to utilize the remedy of a constructive trust or resulting trust to compel
performance of the oral agreement that was established with the prior owner of
the Subject Premises John Phung. 
(Memorandum, pp. 9-10.)  Although Plaintiffs attest in declarations
that they contributed to the down payment, property taxes, and maintenance, these
alone are insufficient to establish ownership of the Subject Premises.  There is simply no evidence that Plaintiffs
have legal title.Rather, the foundation of Plaintiffs’ ownership interest
supporting their quiet title cause of action relies on the enforcement of their
equitable interest.  That is, Plaintiffs
hold an equitable ownership interest through their financial contributions to
the purchase and maintenance of the Subject Premises, as well as their
continuance residence there.  “[T]he
general rule is that the holder of equitable title cannot maintain a quiet
title action against the holder of legal title.”  (Liberty National Enterprises, L.P. v.
Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 62, 81.)  An exception exists where the holder of legal
title has obtained legal title by fraud.  (Ibid.)  “In that case, available ‘remedies include
quieting title in the defrauded equitable title holder’s name and making the
legal title holder the constructive trustee of the property for the benefit of
the defrauded equitable titleholder.’”  (Ibid.)Thus, Plaintiffs standing to pursue their quiet title claim
is dependent on their having stated a claim for fraudulent transfer.  They have not, so Plaintiffs do not have
standing to pursue their quiet title claim.However, the Court sees the motion’s argument which suggests
that Plaintiffs only need to prove title by a preponderance of the evidence and
not clear and convincing proof.  (Memorandum,
p. 8.)  Pursuant to Evidence Code section
662, “The owner of the legal title to property is presumed to be the owner of
the full beneficial title.  The
presumption may be rebutted only by clear and convincing proof.”  (Murray v. Murray (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th
1062, 1067–1068.)  Plaintiffs rely on the
holding by the appellate court in Murray that affirmed that “section 662
does not apply to all quiet title actions.  As its express terms state, it applies when
valid legal title is undisputed and the controversy involves only beneficial
title.”  (Id. at p. 1068 [the
appellate court determined the trial court correctly instructed the jury that
the preponderance of the evidence standard of proof governed its determination
of the factual issues submitted in the quiet title action].)  Plaintiffs’ reliance is misplaced.  A closer look at the case shows that the
plaintiff in Murray alleged that the title to her property was
fraudulently transferred, which the jury ultimately found—that fraudulent
transfer of title from the plaintiff to a defendant occurred.  (Id., at pp. 1062-1063.)  Thus, Murray supports the Court’s
finding that Plaintiffs do not have standing to pursue their quiet title claim,
because once again, Plaintiffs have not stated a claim for fraudulent transfer
here.  Thus, the Court concludes that
Plaintiffs, as holders of equitable title, cannot maintain a quiet title action
against Defendant Nancy Ly, who holds legal title that was not fraudulently
obtained.  (UMF 2 [admits that the
Subject Premises was placed under the name of Defendant Nancy Ly and John Phung.])The Court finds Plaintiffs have not established ownership of
the property.  Plaintiffs have not met
their burden and are not entitled to summary adjudication on the claim for
quiet title.  Summary adjudication of the
first cause of action is denied.Second Cause of Action for Breach of ContractThe elements of a claim for breach of contract are (1) the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. V. New York
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)Plaintiffs argue there are no material facts in dispute
regarding the purchase agreement between Plaintiff Sam Phung and Defendant
Nancy Ly, as Defendant breached the agreement by refusing to sell the property
despite the Plaintiff’s readiness to complete the transaction.  Plaintiffs submit an Appendix of Exhibits as evidence.
 The Appendix includes Sam Phung and
Nancy Ly’s Amended Escrow Instructions (Exh. 1), disclosure statements (Exh.
2), email correspondence between escrow and Defendant (Exh. 3) portions of a
deposition of Nancy Ly (Exh. 4), and a Lis Pendens against the subject property
(Exh. 5).  Missing from the Appendix is
the alleged purchase agreement between Sam and Ly.The Sam Phung Declaration does not offer an explanation as
to why the purchase agreement was not submitted with the motion, or where the
agreement can be found.  Nevertheless, in
his declaration, Sam Phung attests to the escrow instructions in paragraph 4,
and after reviewing the instructions in Exhibit 1 of the Appendix, the Court
determines the escrow instructions can satisfy the statute of frauds.Under the statute of frauds provision, Civil Code section
1624 provides, “The following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note
or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged
or by the party’s agent: [¶] (3) An agreement for […] the sale of real
property, or of an interest […] is invalid” unless it is in writing and
subscribed by the party to be charged or by the party’s agent.  (Civ. Code, § 1624, subd. (a)(3).)  “The only elements of the contract required by
the statute to be written are the seller, the buyer, the price to be paid, the
time and manner of payment, and the property to be transferred, describing it
so it may be identified.”  (Wolf v.
Price (1966) 244 Cal.App.2d 165, 172 [finding that “[t]he escrow
instructions merely constitute a memorandum of the basic agreement sufficient
to satisfy the Statute of Frauds[.]”])Here, Plaintiffs are suing to enforce an alleged purchase
agreement of the subject property.  The
Sale Escrow Instructions (dated March 1, 2023) in Exhibit 1 of the Appendix
refers to a “Purchase Agreement” near the top of page 1 of 15.  On page 1 of 15, the total purchase price
($575,000), the property’s address, a closing date of April 14, 2023, Sam
Phung’s name as the buyer, and Ly’s signed initials are present.  (Appendix, Exh. 1.)  In the Amended Escrow Instructions dated March
3, March 22, and 24, 2023, Sam Phung is named as the buyer, and the three
amendments are signed by Nancy Ly as the seller.  (Appendix, Exh. 1.)  Accordingly, the escrow instructions in
Exhibit 1 have established in writing, the seller, the buyer, the price to be
paid, the property to be transferred, and the time and manner of payment.  As such, the escrow instructions satisfy the
statute of frauds and sufficiently establish a contract between Phung and
Defendant for the sale of the subject property.Plaintiffs challenge Defendant’s claimed reason “that the
Plaintiff’s failure to sign [the California Transfer Disclosure Statement] was
the sole reason for refusing to fulfill her obligation under the contract.”  (Memorandum, p. 11.)  According to Plaintiffs, Defendant believed
the form would protect her from future liability related to the condition of
the property.  (Memorandum, p. 11.)
Plaintiffs argue the Amended Escrow Instructions dated March 3, 2023 already
contained the necessary disclosure terms to protect Defendant.  Further, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant had
already signed the escrow instructions, before Defendant demanded Plaintiff to
sign the California Transfer Disclosure Statement (Appendix, Exh. 2) as a
condition to the sale of the property.  Plaintiffs
contend that such disclosures are required to come from a seller of residential
real property (Memorandum, p. 4), and not the buyer.Plaintiff’s contention is correct.  Civil Code section 1102.3 requires sellers of
single-family real property to deliver a written transfer disclosure statement
to the buyer.  (See Civil Code, §
1102.3.)  According to section 1102.3,
subd. (c), a prospective buyer shall have three days after delivery in person,
or five days after delivery by mail or electronically, “to terminate the offer
by delivery of a written notice of termination to the seller or the seller’s
agent.”  Here, after Defendant delivered
the disclosure statement, “[n]one of the Plaintiffs ever advised Defendant that
they were unwilling to purchase the subject property in an ‘as is’ condition.”  (UMF 34.)The Court finds that, without a notice to terminate by Sam
Nguon, Defendant’s refusal to close is not justified.  Defendant’s refusal to close constitutes a
breach of the purchase agreement.  The
record establishes that Sam Phung performed his obligations to the contract:
when he deposited $582,022.00 into escrow with Glen Oaks Escrow.  (Phung Decl., ¶ 5; UMF 26.)Thus, regarding the breach of contract cause of action, the
Court finds: a contract between Sam and Defendant existed for the sale of the
property, Sam performed his obligations by depositing the funds into escrow and
being ready to close, and Defendant breached the agreement by refusing to
complete the sale for a valid reason.  Plaintiffs
have met their initial burden.  No
opposition is filed.  The moving papers
show there is no triable issue of fact remaining to the breach of contract
claim.  The Court grants summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action.Specific PerformanceWhen a plaintiff’s claims for specific performance and
breach of contract are based upon the same breach of contract claim, they may
nevertheless plead them as separate causes of action because a claim for
specific performance sounds in equity and is to be tried to the court, while a
claim for breach of contract sounds in law and may be tried by a jury.  (See Golden West Baseball Co. v. City of
Anaheim (1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th 11, 49; Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.
App. 4th 1229, 1240.)  In addition to the
breach of contract, a party seeking to specifically enforce a contract must
demonstrate “(1) the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an underlying contract
that is both reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence
of a mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are sufficiently
definite to enable the court to know what it is to enforce; and (5) a
substantial similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the
contract.”  (Tamarind Litho. Workshop
v. Sanders (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 571, 575.)The motion argues “Plaintiffs are entitled to judgment as a
matter of law on the Cause of Action for Breach of Contract and for specific
performance as a remedy.”  (Notice of Motion,
p. 4.)  However, the Complaint does not
allege a cause of action for specific performance, and it does not purport to
state a case for specific performance.  Rather,
the Complaint in the second cause of action seeks damages for Defendant’s
breach in the approximate sum of $150,000.00 plus interest and costs.  Simply, the Complaint requests that “[a]s an
alternative remedy to breach of contract damages, Plaintiff seeks specific
performance of the terms of the purchase agreement” (Compl., ¶ 23), and prays
for specific performance as an alternative to breach of contract damages.  (Compl., pp. 6-7.)  Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiffs’
request for specific performance.ConclusionPlaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is
granted in part and denied in part. Summary adjudication is granted as to the
second cause of action for breach of contract.  The motion is denied as to all other claims.