  Case Number:  19STCV01626    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 November
20, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   19STCV01626
CASE NAME:                        Jacqueline
Johnson v. Otis Elevator Company, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendant,
Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied Universal Security Services,
erroneously sued as Allied Universal Protection Services, LLP dba Allied
Universal Security Services  
OPPOSING
PARTIES:          Cross-Complainant, 350 South Grand Avenue
(LA) Owner, LLC                                                    (erroneously sued as CIM Group, LLC)
Defendant/Cross-Defendant, Otis Elevator
Company
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK
 
PROCEEDING:                      Cross-Defendant’s
Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint  

OPPOSITION:                        Cross-Complainant,
350 South Grand Avenue: November 1, 2024 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant, Otis Elevator Company:
November 6, 2024
REPLY:                                  None as of November 15, 2024. 
 
TENTATIVE:                         Universal’s demurrer is sustained. 350
S Grand is granted 30 days leave to amend. Universal is to give notice. 
 
Background
This
action arises out of Plaintiff Jacqueline Johnson’s (“Plaintiff”) employment as
an elevator operator for 2 California Plaza, 350 South Grand Avenue, Los
Angeles, California from June 3, 2017, to September 8, 2017. Plaintiff alleges
that during these dates, freight elevators #24 and #25 repeatedly malfunctioned
such that Plaintiff was trapped in the elevator while it free fell or due to
the doors being unable to open, resulting in Plaintiff suffering injuries.
Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) negligence against Otis
Elevator Company (“Otis”) and 350 South Grand Avenue (LA) Owner, LLC,
erroneously sued as CIM Group, L.P (“350 S Grand”), (2) premises liability
against 350 S Grand, (3) product liability against Otis. 
On
March 25, 2019, 350 S Grand filed a Cross-Complaint against Otis for equitable
indemnity, comparative fault, express indemnity and declaratory relief.
On
April 9, 2020, 350 S Grand filed a prior motion for summary adjudication
regarding Otis’s duty to defend 350 S Grand. 
On
January 15, 2021, the court denied 350 S Grand’s first motion for summary
adjudication. 
On
December 14, 2021, 350 S Grand filed a renewed motion for summary adjudication
on the same issue regarding Otis’s duty to defend 350 S Grand. 
On
April 13, 2022, the court denied 350 S Grand’s renewed motion for summary
adjudication.
On August
22, 2024, 350 S Grand filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint
(“FACC”) against Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied Universal Security
Services, erroneously sued as Allied Universal Protection Services, LLP dba
Allied Universal Security Services (“Universal”). Universal was Plaintiff’s
employer. 350 S Grand’s FACC alleges that Universal contractually agreed to
indemnify it and defend it against Plaintiff’s claims. The FACC alleges the
following causes of action: (1) express indemnity, (2) breach of contract, and
(3) declaratory relief. 
Universal
now demurs to all causes of action in the FACC. 350 S Grand opposes the
demurrer. Defendant/Cross-Defendant Otis filed a joinder and opposition to the
demurrer. 
Discussion
I.               
Meet
and Confer Efforts
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41.) 
Universal
submits the declaration of its counsel, Steven J. Renick (“Renick”) to
demonstrate compliance with statutory meet and confer requirements. Renick attests
that on September 19, 2024, he e-mailed a two-page letter to the attorneys for
350 S Grand advising them of Universal’s intention to file the instant demurrer
as to all causes of action in the FACC and explaining the anticipated grounds.
(Renick Decl. ¶ 2.) Michael Sabongui, one of 350 S Grand’s attorneys, responded
to the e-mail that “[t]he Amended XC is clearly sufficient for the pleadings
stage.” (Id. ¶ 3.) Renick responded via e-mail that he was happy to discuss
further but absent a change, Universal would be filing the demurrer. (Id.
¶ 4.)  Renick did not receive a response.
(Id.) The Renick Declaration is insufficient for purposes of CCP §
430.41 because the parties did not meet in person, by telephone, or by video
conference. (CCP § 430.41.) The court admonishes Universal for failing to
comply with the meet and confer requirement but will exercise its discretion to
decide the motion on the merits. 
 
II.             
Legal
Standard
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30, subd.
(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  The court
“treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . .”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (CCP § 452; see
also Stevens v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.)  “When a court evaluates a complaint, the
plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.”  (Duval v. Board of Trustees (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 902, 906.)   
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading, even as
against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set forth the essential facts
of the case with reasonable precision and with sufficient particularity to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed
Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  “[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.”  (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3,
citing Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regulatory Auth. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th
1125, 1135.)  In addition, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, courts strictly construe a demurrer
for uncertainty “because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  
Demurrers
do not lie as to only parts of causes of action where some valid claim is
alleged but “must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “Generally it
is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there
is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)  
III.           
Analysis
 
A.    First Cause of Action: Express Indemnity 
“An indemnitee seeking to recover on an
agreement for indemnification must allege (1) the parties’ contractual
relationship, (2) the indemnitee’s performance of that portion of the contract
which gives rise to the indemnification claim, (3) the facts showing a loss
within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification agreement, and (4) the
amount of damages sustained.” (Four Star Electric, Inc. v. F & H
Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1380.)
 
Universal contends that the first cause of action is
insufficiently pled because the FACC does not allege facts that show a loss
within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification agreement. (Demurrer, 9-10.)
Per the FACC, the parties’ indemnification agreement (“the Agreement”) states
the following: 
 
5. Indemnification: "To the
fullest extent permitted by law, and in addition to all other indemnities
provided at law, in equity, or in this Agreement or the Exhibits attached
hereto, Contractor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Owner its
lender, and respective parents, subsidiaries, shareholders, partners, members,
affiliates, affiliated agencies, officers, directors, agents, and employees at
ever tier, and all their respective heirs, executors, Successors and assigns
("Indemnities") from and against all obligations, liens, claims,
liabilities, costs (including, but not limited, to all attorneys' fees and
expenses and similar defense costs), actions and causes of action,
(collectively, "Claims"), including any third party's claims of ownership
of any copyright or other intellectual property, to the extent caused by the
negligent acts, errors, omissions or willful misconduct of Contractor, a
subcontractor of Contractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by them or
anyone for whose acts they may be liable, regardless of whether or not such
Claim was caused in part by an indemnitee, except to the extent a Claim was
caused by the active negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnitee seeking
indemnity. The provisions of this Section 5 shall survive the termination
of the Agreement and, except as expressly provided herein, shall not be limited
in any way by the amount or type of insurance, including, without limitation,
benefits payable by or for Contractor under any worker's compensation act,
disability benefit acts, or other employee benefit acts."
 
(FACC, 4, italics added.) 
 
The FACC alleges that Universal’s failure
“to inform Cross-Complainant and other parties to this action” of “issues,
problems, safety concerns, elevator malfunctions or known problems” caused the
injuries Plaintiff suffered. (FACC, 4.) Universal argues that 350 S Grand
alleges no “specific” facts that establish what specific “issues, problems,
safety concerns, elevator malfunctions or known problems” Allied was supposed
to “inform Cross-Complainant and other parties to this action” about. (Demurrer,
10.) Further, Universal argues that 350 S Grand has failed to allege any facts
supporting its entirely conclusory allegation that this supposed failure to
inform caused the plaintiff’s injuries. (Id.) Universal does not cite to any cases to support
this argument.
 
Universal also argues
that they are not required to indemnify 350 S Grand where the claim at issue
“was caused by the active negligence or willful misconduct” of the
cross-complainant. (FACC, 4.) Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleged that 350 S Grand, the building owner, “negligently owned,
maintained, managed and operated the described premises” and that “the acts of
defendants were the legal (proximate) cause of damages to plaintiff.” (Complaint,
5.) Accordingly, Universal argues that the first cause of action lacks facts
that would support a conclusion that Plaintiff’s injuries were not caused by
350 S Grand’s active negligence or willful misconduct, such that they are not
required to indemnify it under the Agreement. (Demurrer, 11.) Universal does not cite to any cases to support
this argument.
 
In opposition, 350 S Grand and Otis contend that the
first cause of action is sufficiently pled because the FACC alleges that
Universal was obliged, pursuant to the additional terms of the Contract, to
inform 350 S Grand and other parties to this action (including Defendant Otis)
of any issues, problems, safety concerns, elevator malfunctions
or known problems during the timeframe in the Contract, and failed to do so. (Opposition, 8.) 350 S Grand does not cite
to any cases to support this argument. 
 
The court finds that
350 S Grand has not alleged sufficient facts that show a loss within the
meaning of the parties’ indemnification agreement. Under the Agreement quoted
in the FACC, Universal shall indemnify 350 S Grand to the extent caused by Universal’s
negligent acts, errors, omissions or willful misconduct. (FACC, 4-5.)  The FACC alleges that Universal’s failure to
inform 350 S Grand and other parties to this action of issues, problems, safety
concerns, elevator malfunctions or known problems constitutes negligent acts,
errors, omissions or willful misconduct. (FACC, 4.) However, the first cause of
action does not allege any
facts establishing such a requirement that Universal must inform 350 S Grand or
other parties of any issues, problems, safety concerns, elevator malfunctions
or known problems. 350 S Grand merely states that Universal “therefore was
obliged to inform Cross-Complainant and other parties to this action of any
issues, problems, safety concerns, elevator malfunctions or known problems
during the timeframe in the Contract” but fails to allege any other facts to
establish this obligation. (FACC, 4.) 
 
While 350 S Grand attaches
a document entitled “Property Management Service Contract” to the FACC as
Exhibit 1, 350 S Grand does not identify where in Exhibit 1 this obligation arises,
and the court could not locate such a clause. (FACC, Ex. 1.) Further, the
portion of Exhibit 1 entitled “Exhibit B” is largely unintelligible due to
apparent scanning issues. Thus, 350 S Grand fails to plead sufficient facts to
show a loss within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification agreement,
namely that Universal was negligent or engaged in willful misconduct which
would entitle 350 S Grand to indemnification for Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
Therefore, Universal's demurrer to the first
cause of action is sustained.
 
B.    Second Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)
 
“If an action as provided in this chapter
prosecuted by the employee, the employer, or both jointly against the third
person results in judgment against such third person, or settlement by such
third person, the employer shall have no liability to reimburse or hold such
third person harmless on such judgment or settlement in absence of a written
agreement so to do executed prior to the injury.” (Labor Code § 3864.) 
 
Universal contends that Labor Code § 3864, the “workers’
compensation exclusivity rule,” bars the second cause of action. Universal
cites to C.J.L. Constr., Inc. v. Universal Plumbing (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th
376, 385, to support its contention. C.J.L. states as follows: 
 
For
example, in a third party action, section 3864 has been construed to prohibit
the third party tortfeasor from suing the employer: ‘(1) for breach of
contract; (2) for breach of express and implied warranties; (3) for implied
equitable indemnity; (4) for fraud; (5) for negligent misrepresentation; (6)
for equitable estoppel; (7) for waiver; and (8) for declaratory relief.’


(C.J.L Constr., Inc., supra, 18 Cal.App.4th at 385, citing Alameda Tank
Co. v. Starkist Foods, Inc. (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 428, 431.) 
 
Universal argues that regardless of the workers’
compensation exclusivity rule’s exception allowing employer liability when
there is a written agreement for reimbursement, such as the indemnity clause
here, the second cause of action is still barred as it is duplicative.
Universal contends that the second cause of action is based on the express
indemnity provision of the contract, such that it is duplicative of the first
cause of action for express indemnity. 
 
In opposition, 350 S Grand and Otis contend that the
second cause of action is not barred by the workers’ compensation exclusivity
rule because there is an express indemnification agreement. (Opposition, 11.) 350
S Grand and Otis also argue that the second cause of action is not duplicative
of the first as it not only alleges breach of the indemnification clause, but
also breach of Universal’s duty to defend the lawsuit and failure to comply
with the terms and conditions of the contract, for which 350 S Grand seeks
attorney’s fees. (Id.) 350 S Grand alleges that Universal breached the
contract by failing to inform 350 S Grand or other parties of
any issues, problems, safety concerns, elevator malfunctions or known problems,
and by failing to defend 350 S Grand against Plaintiff’s claims. (Id., 7.)
 
The court finds that the second cause of
action for breach of contract is barred by the workers’ compensation
exclusivity rule and is duplicative to the extent that it relies on the
indemnity clause under the written agreement exception to the rule. As section
3864 prohibits 350 S Grand from suing Universal, Plaintiff’s employer, for
breach of contract, the second cause of action must necessarily be based on the
express indemnity provision of the contract to survive this bar. (“[T]he
employer shall have no liability to reimburse or hold such third person
harmless on such judgment or settlement in absence of a written agreement so
to do executed prior to the injury.” (Labor Code § 3864, italics added.) However,
if the second cause of action survives the bar by relying on the
indemnification agreement, it is duplicative of the first cause of action for
express indemnity and subject to demurrer on this ground. “The cause of action
for breach of governing documents appears to be duplicative of the cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty. This court has recognized this as a basis
for sustaining a demurrer.” (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc.
v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal. App. 4th 268, 290.)
 
While 350 S Grand and Otis argue that the
second cause of action is not duplicative because it alleges that Universal breached
the contract by failing to inform 350 S Grand or other parties of any
issues, problems, safety concerns, elevator malfunctions or known problems, the second cause of action does not allege any facts
establishing such a requirement. Again, 350 S Grand merely states that
Universal “therefore was obliged to inform Cross-Complainant and other parties
to this action of any issues, problems, safety concerns, elevator malfunctions
or known problems during the timeframe in the Contract.” (FACC, 7.) The FACC fails
to set out the terms “verbatim
in the body of the complaint” or attach and incorporate by reference “a copy of
the written agreement” that is legible as required when a breach of contract
claim is based on alleged breach of a written contract per Harris. 350
S Grand attaches a document entitled “Property Management Service Contract” to
the FACC as Exhibit 1, but 350 S Grand does not identify where in Exhibit 1
this obligation arises, and the court could not locate such a clause. (FACC,
Ex. 1.) Further, the portion of Exhibit 1 entitled “Exhibit B” is largely
unintelligible due to apparent scanning issues. Thus, 350 S Grand fails to
plead sufficient facts to establish breach of contract, and if they did, such a
claim would be barred by the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule. 
 
Thus, the second cause of action is barred by the
workers’ compensation exclusivity rule as plead and 350 S Grand fails to plead
sufficient facts to establish breach of contract. To the extent that the second
cause of action relies on the written agreement, it is duplicative. 
 
Therefore, Universal's demurrer to the second
cause of action is sustained.
 
C.    Third Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief 
California Courts have recognized that “[t]he
existence of an ‘actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of
the respective parties,’ suffices to maintain an action for declaratory
relief.”  (Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 592, 605 (Ludgate).)  “Any person interested under a
written instrument, ... or under a contract, or who desires a declaration of
his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in, over
or upon property,  ... may, in cases of actual controversy relating to the
legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action or
cross-complaint in the superior court ... for a declaration of his or her
rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract." 
(Id., quoting CCP § 1060.)    
 
Universal contends, as above, that the workers’
compensation exclusivity rule bars the third cause of action on the same bases.
The court agrees for the same reasons discussed above. 
Further, having found that the FACC’s first and
second causes of action are insufficiently pled, the court now finds that the FACC’s
third cause of action is insufficiently pled. 
 
Conclusion
 
Universal’s demurrer is sustained. 350 S Grand is granted 30
days leave to amend. Universal is to give notice.   