  Case Number:  22STCV27080    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar
No. 
Lugo, et. al. vs. General Motors LLC, et. al.,
Case No. 22STCV27080
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Deposition of PMK
 
Plaintiffs Gloria Lopez Lugo and Edwin
Lugo Ramos (collectively, Plaintiffs) move for an order compelling Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant) to
produce its PMQ for deposition and to produce documents. The Court grants
the motion as to Category Nos. 1-2 and Request Nos. 1-2 and 5-6, and denies the
motion as to Category Nos. 3-4 and Request Nos. 3-4.  Defendant is ordered to produce its PMQ and
responsive documents within thirty (30) days of today’s date.
 
Any party may obtain
discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral 
deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a
party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to
produce documents for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).)  
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action . . . or employee of a party . . . , without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
“The motion shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) To establish
“good cause,” the burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the
subject matter and specific facts justifying discovery. (See Glenfed
Develop. Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117)
Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010 imposes a
“reasonably calculated” limitation on the scope of all discovery.  Section 2017.020(a) vests the judge with
authority to limit the scope of discovery if the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of the discovery sought “clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information
sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  Section 2019.030 directs the judge to
consider the needs of the case, amount in controversy, and the importance of
the issues at stake in the litigation, and to consider whether the discovery
being sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable by a
more convenient or less expensive or less burdensome way, when deciding whether
to restrict the frequency or extent of use of an authorized discovery method.
 
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiffs served
the Notice of Deposition for Defendant’s PMQ. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.) The
Notice listed 4 matters for examination and 6 requests for documents. Defendant
served objections to the Notice on September 7, 2023. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 5, Ex.
C.)
 
Category Nos. 1 and 2, and Request Nos.
1, 2, 5, and 6 each seek information directly related to Plaintiff’s vehicle. Those
read as follows:
Categories
1.      [Defendant’s] pre-litigation analysis
as to whether the [subject vehicle] should be repurchased.
2.      All repairs and service performed on
the [subject vehicle].
Requests
1.      [Defendant’s] entire pre-litigation
file regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
2.      [Defendant’s] pre-litigation
communications with Plaintiff(s) regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
5.       All DOCUMENTS evidencing your pre-litigation
evaluation of whether the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified for a repurchase under the
Song-Beverly Act.
6.      All DOCUMENTS that YOU reviewed in YOUR
pre-litigation evaluation of whether the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified for a
repurchase under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
In Opposition, Defendant argues that
these items are irrelevant because Defendant has already produced responsive
documents and has agreed to produce a witness regarding certain categories. The
Court disagrees. The fact that Defendant has produced other documents in this
action or agreed to produce a witness on certain topics does not limit the remaining
scope of discovery. These items directly concern Defendant’s decision on
whether to repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle, and are relevant for purposes of
discovery.
 
Category No. 3 and Request No. 3 seek
information regarding Defendant’s general policies and procedures for
evaluating vehicle repurchase or replacement under the Song-Beverly Act.  Category No. 4 and Request No. 4 concern
Defendant’s training and training materials for evaluating pre-litigation
repurchase requests.
 
Defendant objected to this topic as
overbroad, burdensome, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, seeking trade secret
information, and seeking privileged information. The Court agrees with
Defendant that these categories and requests are not sufficiently tailored to
Plaintiff’s claims, and so denies the motion as to Category Nos. 3-4 and
Request Nos. 3-4.
 
Because the motion is denied in part,
monetary sanctions are denied.