 Case Number:  21STCV38092    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  74 Jane Doe v. Empire Homes, LLC, et
al.
Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate the
Trial
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a dispute between a landlord and a tenant.
            On
July 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint (TAC) against Empire
View Homes, LLC, CREI Manager, LLC, and Steven Raymond Short (Short).
            In
the TAC, Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: (1) breach of
contract, (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3) breach of implied
warranty of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) retaliation, (6) sexual
harassment, (7) violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act, and (8) violation of the
Unfair Competition Law.
            On
September 30, 2022, Plaintiff further amended the operative complaint to add
Christina Development Corporation as a defendant.
            On
April 26, 2023, Empire View Homes, LLC, CREI Manager, LLC, and Christina
Development Corporation (Defendants) filed a motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication.
            On
July 14, 2023, the court granted Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of
every cause of action except the seventh (violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act).
            All
Plaintiff’s causes of action against Short remain.
            On
February 6, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to bifurcate the trial between
Defendants and Short.
            On
March 4, 2024, the court ordered the parties to meet and confer regarding
bifurcation.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION
            On March
12, 2024, the parties submitted a stipulation to bifurcate the trial. In their
stipulation, the parties agree that there may be potential prejudice if
Defendants and Short are required to try their respective cases together.
Accordingly, the parties have agreed to bifurcate the trial into two phases. The
first phase will cover Plaintiff’s remaining cause of action against
Defendants, and the second will cover all active causes of action against
Short. Moreover, all pending dates will apply to the first phase, and the parties
will meet and confer about the start date for the second phase. The court
grants the parties’ stipulation to bifurcate trial.