  Case Number:  23CHCV02580    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/3/24     Case    Name: Teresa Arasheben, et al. v. Burns & Partners Inc., et al.       Case    # 23CHCV02580      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    APRIL 3, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF  PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02580    Motion  filed: 11/2/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant The Standard Fire Insurance  Company (“Standard Fire Insurance” or the “Moving Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Teresa Arasheben, Vince  Garcia, Mohammad Arasheben, Ohara Arasheben, and Lara Arasheben. (collectively,  “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court striking portions of the Complaint.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The motion  is GRANTED IN PART with LEAVE TO AMEND.   BACKGROUND   This action involves a property insurance coverage dispute,  stemming from a claim that Plaintiffs submitted to the Moving Defendant who is  the policy issuing party.   On August 28, 2023, Plaintiffs initiated the action against Defendants  Burns & Partners Inc., Standard Fire Insurance, and Does 1-20, alleging:  (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing; and (3) gross negligence.    On November 2, 2023, Standard Fire Insurance filed the  instant Motion to Strike portions of the Complaint (the “Motion”). Plaintiffs  opposed the Motion on March 20, 2024, to which Standard Fire Insurance replied  on March 26, 2024.   On March  22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Request for Dismissal, dismissing Plaintiff Vince  Garcia. The Request was entered by the Court on the same day.    ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or  improper matter inserted in any pleading.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford  v. Shultz, 42 Cal. 2d 767,  782 (1954) [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is  surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or  disregarded”].) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not  essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor  supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment  requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear  on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   A.     Procedural  Requirements Are All Met   1.       Meet and Confer   “Before filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party  shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the  pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining  if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the  motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §  435.5, subd. (a).)  If no agreement is  reached, the moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a  declaration stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and  conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement, or (2) that the  party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and confer request  or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)     Here, Standard Fire  Insurance’s counsel (“Counsel”) made efforts to engage in the meet and confer  process, including that she contacted Plaintiffs’ counsel via email on  September 21, 2023, to schedule a meet and confer phone call regarding the  Complaint and Standard Fire Insurance’s intent to file a motion to strike.  (Maghareh Decl., ¶ 2.) Further attempts to arrange the meeting were made  through follow-up emails and phone calls. (Id., ¶ 3.) On October 5,  2023, Counsel detailed the grounds for the intended motion to strike in an  email to Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Ibid.) Subsequently, both parties met and  conferred telephonically on October 6, 2023. (Ibid.) Despite Plaintiffs’  counsel indicating on October 9, 2023, that an amendment to the Complaint would  be forthcoming, no such amendment was filed by the time the Motion was  submitted. (Id., ¶ 6.)   Given the detailed account in  the declaration, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirements under  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5 subdivision (a) have been met.    2.      Timeliness   “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a  pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part  thereof [e.g., 30 days after the service of the compliant or cross-complaint  unless extended by court order or stipulation.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd.  (b)(1).)      Here, on September 13, 2023, Plaintiffs granted  Standard Fire Insurance a 14-day extension, extending the deadline to respond  to the Complaint until October 13, 2023. (Maghareh Decl., ¶ 2.) Subsequently, on  October 13, 2023, the Court granted Standard Fire Insurance’s Ex Parte  Application, ordering that Standard Fire Insurance to have until November 3,  2023, to file a response to the Complaint. (Id., ¶ 5, 10/13/23 Minute  Order.)   In adherence to this extended timeline, the Motion was  filed on November 2, 2023, thereby meeting the deadline ordered by the Court.    Accordingly, the filing of  the Motion to Strike is considered timely.   B.      Motion to  Strike   Moving Defendant requests that the following portions be  stricken from the Complaint:   1.       Paragraph 54, in its entirety,  which states as follows:   “STANDARD’s  conduct described herein was done with a conscious and deliberate disregard of  PLAINTIFFS' rights and constitutes despicable conduct, as it was done with the  intent to vex, injure or annoy PLAINTIFFS such as to constitute oppression,  fraud or malice pursuant to California Civil Code §3294, entitling PLAINTIFFS  to an award of punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish the STANDARD  within the dictates of Due Process, or set an example of the STANDARD to  discourage similar conduct by other insurance companies.”    2.       Prayer for the First  Cause of Action, Paragraph 3 in its entirety, which states as follows:   “For attorney’s fees;”   3.       Prayer for the Second  Cause of Action, Paragraph 10 in its entirety, which states as follows:   “Punitive Damages; and”   1)       Punitive  Damages   “Punitive damages are accessible only upon a showing that  the defendant acted with the intent to vex, injure, or annoy.”  (Tomaselli  v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1286 (internal  citation omitted).) To  withstand a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, the complaint must  set forth facts supporting a claim for punitive damages: “the mere allegation  an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of  punitive damages. (Citation omitted.) Not only must there be circumstances of  oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to  support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d  159, 166.)   Civil Code § 3294 subdivision (c)  defines malice, oppression, and fraud: (1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the  defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is  carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the  rights or safety of others.   (2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a  person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's  rights.   (3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit,  or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on  the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal  rights or otherwise causing injury.   “[Civil Code section 3294] plainly  indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more  than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The  additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court, 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725 (1994).)   Here, in its Motion, Standard Fire  Insurance contends that Plaintiffs have not alleged specific facts necessary to  warrant a claim for punitive damages, (Mot. at 9), arguing that an insurer’s  conduct must exceed mere bad faith to merit such an award, referencing Mock,  Mock v. Michigan Millers Mut. Ins. Co., (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 328.)   Contrastingly, Plaintiffs in their  response, argue that the Complaint adequately alleges punitive damages by  detailing not only the deprivation of the insurance policy’s benefits but also alleging  actions by Standard Fire Insurance that purportedly have exposed Plaintiffs to  physical harm from lead. These allegations, they argue, demonstrate the Moving  Defendant’s conscious disregard for both the rights and the safety of  Plaintiffs, thus meeting the punitive damages pleading standards. (Opp’n., at  8.)    The Moving Defendant, in its Reply, does  not directly contest the adequacy of Plaintiffs’ allegations regarding safety  disregard. Instead, it focuses on asserting that the Complaint’s allegations,  particularly those related to Standard Fire’s failure to pay additional policy  benefits due to the faulty workmanship of a vendor, are conclusory and lack the  detailed facts necessary to imply wrongful intent, motive, or purpose. (Reply,  at 3.) Furthermore, Standard Fire Insurance maintains that a breach of the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing alone does not establish a right to  punitive damages. (Reply, at 4.)   The Court, in its evaluation, references  specific allegations from the Complaint, including actions by Standard Fire  Insurance’s adjuster Ms. Ortiz that allegedly delayed the restoration by not  approving packout and ordering the restoration company to move the personal  property of Plaintiffs from one from to another (Compl., ¶ 20); that Standard  Fire Insurance authorized lead abatement by Burns & Partners Inc. (“Burns”)  based on a positive lead assessment result reported by Go Eco Restoration  (“G.E.R.”) (Id., ¶ 22); that Burns removed their non-compliant barrier  without allowing the dust to settle and left the job site ... the entire house  was contaminated (Id., ¶ 25); that another lead testing was performed by  G.E.R. to confirm clearance, which resulted a high level of lead throughout the  property and concluded that it is causes by Burns left the property in a  contaminated state without capsulating the area that contained lead (Id.,  ¶ 26); that Plaintiffs’ personal property were also contaminated due to Standard  Fire Insurance’s refusal to remove them from the property (Id., ¶ 28);  and that Standard Fire Insurance initially approved a second abatement company  to clean the property; however, it subsequently withdrew its approval and  removed housing approval as well. (Id., ¶ 31.)               The Complaint further alleges that “STANDARD engaged in  unlawful insurance claims handling practices by attempting to assert that  PLAINTIFFS were not entitled to full benefits under the Policy for the losses,  low-balling the value of the claims and then wrongfully and unreasonably  denying further benefits to the PLAINTIFFS. Such bad faith conduct constitutes continuing  tort[.]” (Compl., ¶ 50.) “This conduct ... including, but not limited to the  following: (a) Unreasonably withholding benefits owed to PLAINTIFFS under  coverage for the Property under the claims; (b) Failing to acknowledge and act  reasonably promptly upon communications with respect to claims arising under  the Policy; (c) Failing to adopt arid implement reasonable standards for the  prompt investigation and processing of claims; (d) Not attempting in good faith  to effectuate prompt, fair, and equitable settlement of Plaintiffs' claims; (e)  Compelling Plaintiffs to initiate litigation to obtain benefits due under the  Policy for the losses; (f) Failing to provide a reasonable explanation of the  basis relied on in the insurance policy, in relation to the facts or applicable  law, for the unreasonable delay of a claim or for the offer of a compromise  settlement; (g) Failing to settle claims promptly, where liability has become  apparent, under one portion of the insurance policy coverage in order to influence  settlements under other portions of the insurance policy coverage. (h) Failing  to consider Plaintiffs' interests at least equal to its own; (i) Commencing on  a course of conduct to wrongfully influence the adjustment of the losses and an  improper attempt to minimize the losses[.]” (Id., ¶ 52.)               Given the Code of Civil Procedures sections 437 and 452 –  which mandate that the grounds for a Motion Strike must appear on the face of  the challenged pleading and the pleading’s  allegations must be liberally construed – the Court finds Plaintiff’s  pleadings, when considered in their entirety, sufficiently allege facts that  could imply the Moving Defendant’s conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights  and safety. Consequently, the Court finds Standard Fire Insurance’s argument to  be unpersuasive.               Accordingly, the Court DENIES the Motion to Strike with  respect to punitive damages, specifically noting Paragraph 54 of the Complaint and  Paragraph 10 of the Prayer for the Second Cause of Action.   2)       Attorney’s Fees   When authorized by contract, statute or law, reasonable  attorney fees are “allowable costs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.  (a)(10).) “Costs” can include items allowable as “attorneys’ fees” as a  prevailing party, if allowable by statute or contract. (Heritage Engineering  Const., Inc. v. City of Industry (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1441-1442.)    A cause of action for breach of contract requires proof of  the following elements: (1) the existence of the contract; (2) the plaintiff’s  performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4)  damages to the plaintiff as a result of the breach.” (CDF Firefighters v.  Maldonado (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1226, 1239.)    Additionally, “[a] written contract may be pleaded either  by its terms – set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract  attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its  legal effect.”  (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972,  993.)   Here, the Moving Defendant challenges the Complaint for not  citing any authority that supports Plaintiffs’ purported right to recover  attorney’s fees. (Mot. at 10.) The Court observes that Plaintiffs do not  include any contract in question to their Complaint or to adequately allege its  legal effect in authorizing the recovery of attorney’s fees. Plaintiffs merely  state possession of complete policy by the Moving Defendant and assert they  have incurred attorney fees and court costs without sufficiently alleging the  policy’s provisions or their legal effect regarding attorney’s fees recovery. (Compl.,  ¶¶ 34, 40).   Consequently, the Court concludes that Plaintiffs have  failed to sufficiently plead the basis for recovering attorney’s fees under  their either law or their policy with Standard Fire Insurance. Accordingly, the  Court GRANTS the Motion to Strike regarding attorney’s fees, with LEAVE TO  AMEND.   In sum, the Court GRANTS IN PART with LEAVE TO AMEND the  Motion to Strike.   CONCLUSION   The  Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART.   Plaintiff  is GRANTED LEAVE TO AMEND as to the attorney’s fees within 10 days of notice of  this order.   Moving  party to give notice.