  Case Number:  21STCV34815    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV34815




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Supplemental Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Southern California Edison Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 21, 2021, Plaintiff Alejandro Choy (“Plaintiff”), filed a
complaint against Defendant Southern California Gas Company and Does 1 to 50 for
injuries sustained after allegedly falling through a manhole.  On October 31, 2022, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to allege Southern California Edison Company as Doe 1.  
 
Defendant Southern California Edison Company (“Defendant”) now moves
to compel Plaintiff’s response to Supplemental Request for Interrogatories. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Supplemental Interrogatories 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.070 provides: 
 
“(b) A party may propound a supplemental interrogatory
twice before the initial setting of a trial date, and, subject to the time
limits on discovery proceedings and motions provided in Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting of a trial date.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.070(b).) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant asserts that on August 28, 2023, Defendant served
Plaintiff with Supplemental Request for Interrogatories. (Yegazarian Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) No responses have been
served since that date. (Id. ¶ 7–8.) Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.
Therefore, because responses have not been served, the motion to compel is
granted.  
 
Defendant
requests $675 in monetary sanctions representing a $200 hourly rate. The Court finds
that monetary sanctions are warranted but finds the amount to be excessive in
light of the type of motion at issue and the lack of an opposition. Therefore,
the Court grants sanctions in the amount of $300 (1.5 hours of attorney time).¿ 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff Alejandro Choy to respond to Supplemental
Request for Interrogatories. Plaintiff Alejandro Choy shall serve
verified responses, without objections, within 30 days. 
 
Plaintiff Alejandro
Choy and his attorney of record, jointly and
severally, are ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $300.00 to counsel for Defendant
within 30 days.¿ 
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 
 