  Case Number:  23STCV15649    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



LUCIE NOON, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FERMIN M. FUENTES, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV15649




Hearing Date:


May 24, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO C.C.P. § 425.16
 



            
Background
On July 6, 2023,
Plaintiffs Lucie Noon, Hugo Batres, Haroldo Batres, Rigoberto Mena, and
Tolentino Sales (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
Defendants Fermin M. Fuentes and Jeanette De Angel (jointly, “Defendants”)
On September 25, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes
of action for (1) wrongful eviction, (2) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment
(tort), (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment (statute), (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (5) violation of Welfare
and Institutions Code section 15610.30,
(6) forcible entry, 
(7)
forcible detainer, (8) violation of Civil Code section
1950.5, (9) fraud, (10) violation of Civil Code
section 789.3, and (11) violation of Unfair Competition Law. 
Fermin Fuentes
(“Fuentes”) now moves pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16 for an order striking each of the causes of action
of the FAC. Plaintiffs oppose. 
 
Requests for
Judicial Notice 
The Court grants
Fuentes’s request for judicial notice. The Court also grants Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice. 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants owned a property located at 1201 S. Magnolia Street, Los
Angeles, California, 90006 (herein, the “Subject Property”). (FAC, ¶ 11.) “The
Subject Property was a large single family home that Defendants subdivided into
individual units. Defendants rented the individual units or rooms to different
individuals.” (FAC, ¶ 11.)
“Defendants had been the owners and or managers of the Subject
Property during Plaintiffs’ tenancy at the Subject Property…” (FAC, ¶ 12.)
“Plaintiff NOON was a resident and tenant at the Subject Property from on or
around 1999, until July 6, 2022…” (FAC, ¶ 13.) “Plaintiff HUGO was a resident
and tenant at the Subject Property from on or around 2000, until July 6, 2022…”
(FAC, ¶ 14.) “Plaintiff HAROLDO was a resident and tenant at the Subject
Property from on or around 2005, until July 6, 2022…” (FAC, ¶ 15.) “Plaintiff
MENA was a resident and tenant at the Subject Property from on or around 2016,
until July 6, 2022…” (FAC, ¶ 16.) “Plaintiff SALES was a resident and tenant at
the Subject Property from on or around 2019, until July 6, 2022…” (FAC, ¶ 17.)
“On or about September, 2021, Defendant FUENTES informed all tenants
at the Subject Property, including Plaintiffs, that he was selling the Subject
Property, that it was in escrow and that they, the tenants, would have to
vacate within 60 days.” (FAC, ¶ 21.)
“Other tenants rented from Defendants and resided in other units at
the Subject Property, including Celia Roxana Moreno and her partner Jorge Allan
Aldana, who together rented, and lived in, unit 7.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) “On or around
November 29, 2021, Defendant FUENTES filed an unlawful detainer against Celia
Roxana Moreno, who had previously resided in Unit 7, but who, at the time the
unlawful detainer was filed no longer lived at the SUBJECT PROPERTY.” (FAC, ¶
25.) “The unlawful detainer was filed in the Los Angeles Superior Court, LASC
Case No. 21STUD03199, and listed the property subject to the unlawful detainer
as the Subject Property address, instead of Unit 7, the unit Defendant FUENTES
rented to Celia Roxana Morena.” (FAC, ¶ 28.) “Around the same time, Defendant
FUENTES went around the Subject Property and removed the unit numbers from each
unit.” (FAC, ¶ 29.) 
“On or around December 7, 2021, Defendant FUENTES caused a ‘Maria
Lopez’ to be served on behalf of Celia Roxana Moreno, claiming Maria Lopez was
a co-occupant of Celia Roxana Lopez…there was no occupant of the Subject
Property named ‘Maria Lopez.’” (FAC, ¶ 30.) In addition, “[n]one of the
Plaintiffs were served with the unlawful detainer…” (FAC, ¶ 32.)
“On February 15, 2022, Defendant FUENTES caused a default to be
entered in the unlawful detainer action against all unnamed occupants…none of
the Plaintiffs was served with the Request for Default. Because Defendant
FUENTES never listed Celia Roxana Moreno’s unit number, the default was against
all unnamed occupants at the Subject Property.” (FAC, ¶ 33.) “On May 9, 2022,
Defendant FUENTES obtained a Judgment on the unlawful detainer. The Judgment
was against Celia Roxana Moreno and unnamed occupants, and listed the Subject
Property address the address [sic] from which Celia Roxana Moreno would be
evicted.” (FAC, ¶ 36.) “On or about May 12, 2022, Defendant FUENTES applied
for, and obtained, a Writ of Execution for possession…because Defendant FUENTES
failed to list Celia Roxana Moreno’s unit, Unit 7, the writ was to be executed
on the Subject Property as a whole, not on Celia Roxana Moreno’s former unit,
Unit 7.” (FAC, ¶ 37.)
            “On or about July 6, 2022, the Los
Angeles Sheriff’s Department executed the writ. They go to the Subject Property
in the early morning of July 6, 2022, and meet Defendant FUENTES at the Subject
Property. With Defendant FUENTES by their side, the Sheriff’s Deputies knocked
on each of the unit, which are now without numbers, and order Plaintiffs to
vacate.” (FAC, ¶ 38.) “Plaintiffs did not know, at the time of the eviction,
why they were being evicted.” (FAC, ¶ 43.) 
“Plaintiffs
were unable to retrieve most of the personal property, were never refunded
their security deposit and some had already paid their rent for the month of
July, 2022, the month they were forced out.” (FAC, ¶ 44.) 
            In the first cause of action for
wrongful eviction, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[o]n or about
July 6, 2022, Defendants wrongfully evicted Plaintiffs from their homes using
what Plaintiffs believe was a fraudulent unlawful detainer against another
tenant.” (FAC, ¶ 49.) Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiffs’ units were subject to
the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance. Defendants could not evict
Plaintiffs without proper notice, as required under California
Civil Code 1161, alleging one of the 14 reasons for eviction permitted
under L.A.M.C. section 151.09.” (FAC, ¶ 50.) 
            In the second cause of action for
breach of covenant of covenant enjoyment (tort), Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “Defendants have a duty to abide by the implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment. Defendants breached this duty and the implied covenant by
their conduct, their acts and their failure to act as described above,
including, but not limited to, locking Plaintiffs out of their home and
wrongfully evicting them.” (FAC, ¶ 56.)
            In the third cause of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment
(statute), Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants have a
duty to abide by the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. Defendants breached
this duty and the implied covenant by their conduct, their acts and their
failure to act as described above, including, but not limited to, locking
Plaintiffs out of their home and wrongfully evicting them.” (FAC, ¶ 62.) 
            In the fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[a]t all times
herein Defendants’ conduct was intentional and malicious and done for the
purpose of causing Plaintiffs humiliation, mental anguish and emotional and
physical distress, including shock, anxiety, nervousness, sleeplessness, worry,
disappointment, depression and other emotions.” (FAC, ¶ 67.)
            The
fifth cause of action for violation of Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15610.30
alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff MENA alleges that Defendants
violated the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act by taking
financial advantage of him.” (FAC, ¶ 71.) “Plaintiff was 75 years of age or
older at the time of Defendants’ conduct.” (FAC, ¶ 72.) “The Defendants took,
appropriated, obtained or retained and/or assisted in taking, appropriating,
obtaining or retaining Plaintiff’s property for a wrongful use and with the
intent to defraud Plaintiff.” (FAC, ¶ 73.)
            In the sixth cause of action for forcible
entry, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs were in actual,
peaceful and lawful possession of the Subject Unit when on or about July 6,
2022, Defendants entered the Subject Unit by forcible entry and without
Plaintiffs’ permission…Defendants did so under the pretext of evicting another
tenant, Celia Roxana Moreno, without any notice to Plaintiffs and without
filing an unlawful detainer against Plaintiffs…Defendants thereafter unlawfully
withheld the Subject Unit, despite Plaintiffs’ demands to gain access to their
respective units.” (FAC, ¶¶ 78-80.)
            In the seventh cause of action for
forcible detainer, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs were
in actual, peaceful and lawful possession of the Subject Unit when on or about
July 6, 2022, Defendants entered the Subject Unit by forcible entry and without
Plaintiffs’ permission…Defendants did so under the pretext of evicting another
tenant, Celia Roxana Moreno, without any notice to Plaintiffs and without
filing an unlawful detainer against Plaintiffs…Defendants thereafter unlawfully
withheld the Subject Unit, despite Plaintiffs’ demands to gain access to their
respective units.” (FAC, ¶¶ 84-86.)
            In the eighth cause of action for violation
of Civil Code section 1950.5, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “Plaintiffs NOON, MENA and SALES each provided a security
deposit to Defendant FUENTES…Defendants, pursuant to Civil
Code 1950.5, were required to return to Plaintiffs their security deposit
once they vacated the SUBJECT PROPERTY…Defendants, despite having Plaintiffs
NOON, MENA and SALES removed from the property, failed to return their
respective security deposits.” (FAC, ¶¶ 90-92.)
            In the ninth cause of action for fraud,
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendant FUENTES filed an unlawful
detainer against a tenant that no longer resided at the Subject Property and
purported to serve a nonexistent tenant. Defendant FUENTES listed the property
from which the ‘tenant’ was supposed to be evicted as the address of the
Subject Property, failing to list the unit number of the ‘tenant’ being
evicted…Defendant then removed the unit numbers to make the multi-tenant
Subject Property appeared [sic] to be a single-family residence.” (FAC, ¶¶
95-96.)
            In the tenth cause of action for violation
of Civil Code section 789.3, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, that “California Civil Code §789.3(b)(1)
provides that a landlord shall not prevent the tenant from gaining reasonable
access to the property by changing the locks or using a bootlock or by any
other similar method or device…” (FAC, ¶ 101.) “Defendants prevented Plaintiffs
from gaining access to their unit, wrongfully evicted them and proceeded to
lock them out of their unit.” (FAC, ¶ 105.) 
            In the eleventh cause of action for “violation
of Unfair Competition Law,” Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that
“Defendants violated numerous housing laws, meant to protect tenants and ensure
fairness in negotiations between landlord and tenant. The laws that Defendants
violated include Civil Code sections 1927, and 1950.5
and Los Angeles Municipal Code sections 151.09 and
151.10 (as alleged above). By their continuous violation of said laws,
Defendants engaged in a per se unlawful business practice constituting unfair
competition in violation of California Business &
Professions Code sections 17200 et seq.” (FAC, ¶ 109.) 
B.     Legal Standard
The anti-SLAPP statute is
“a mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise of
free speech rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process
and resolved expeditiously.” (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal
quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for
determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public
participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines whether the defendant
has established that the challenged claim arises from protected speech. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the court “determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
 
 
C.     Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
“[T]he only thing the
defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP statute is
that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the defendant in
furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” (Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.) An act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech includes the following:
 
“(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining whether a
cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court focuses on “the
allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the foundation
for the claims.” (Castleman v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or
petitioning activity.” (Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89
(emphasis in original).) In making this determination, the
Court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating
the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.) 
As set forth above, the FAC alleges that “[o]n or around November 29,
2021, Defendant FUENTES filed an unlawful detainer against Celia Roxana
Moreno,” and that “[t]he unlawful detainer was filed in the Los Angeles
Superior Court, LASC Case No. 21STUD03199…” (FAC, ¶¶ 25, 28.) In the instant motion, Fuentes asserts
that “Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint relies on common allegations
arising out of the UD Action which is protected activity.” (Mot. at p. 7:8-9.)
Fuentes cites to Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
275, 281, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he prosecution of an unlawful detainer action indisputably is
protected activity within the meaning of section
425.16. The constitutional right to petition…includes the basic act of
filing litigation or otherwise seeking administrative action.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiffs assert that they “are not suing Defendants for filing an
unlawful detainer against a tenant in another apartment, or the statements
therein…Plaintiffs are suing Defendants for the fraud they perpetuated on them.” (Opp’n at p. 14:12-15.) 
Plaintiffs cite to Ben-Shahar v. Pickart (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
1043, 1051-1052, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[n]umerous anti-SLAPP cases
have discussed a landlord’s unlawful detainer action that is followed by a
tenant’s lawsuit. Unless the sole basis of liability asserted in the
tenant’s complaint is the filing and prosecution of the unlawful detainer
action, the tenant’s action will not be targeted at protected activity. Where,
however, the action is predicated upon conduct distinct from the prosecution of
unlawful detainer action—even though the complaint is based upon the unlawful
detainer action or arises from it—the tenant’s action is not targeted at
protected activity and thus does not meet the first prong of the anti-SLAPP
analysis.” (Internal citation omitted.) Plaintiffs assert that “[i]n the
present case, the unlawful detainer is not the sole basis of liability.” (Opp’n
at p. 11:4-5.) 
The Ben-Shahar Court noted that in Clark
v. Mazgani (2009)
170 Cal.App.4th 1281, “the landlord filed an unlawful detainer action to evict a
tenant, ‘ostensibly to free the unit for occupancy by the landlord’s daughter.’…However,
the daughter never moved in, and the evicted tenant subsequently sued for
fraud, unlawful eviction, and failure to pay relocation expenses…Clark once again explained the
tenant’s lawsuit ‘is not based on…filing or service of the notices of intent to
evict, it is not based on anything [the landlord] said in court or a public
proceeding, and it is not based on the fact that [the landlord] prosecuted an
unlawful detainer action…The complaint is based on [the landlord’s] allegedly
unlawful eviction, in that she fraudulently invoked the [rent ordinance] to
evict [the tenant] from her rent-controlled apartment as a ruse to provide
housing for her daughter, but never installed her daughter in the apartment as
required by that ordinance, and also that she failed to pay [the tenant’s]
relocation fee.” (Ben-Shahar v. Pickart, supra, 231 Cal.App.4th at p. 1052.)
Here, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[o]n or about
July 6, 2022, Defendants wrongfully evicted Plaintiffs from their homes using
what Plaintiffs believe was a fraudulent unlawful detainer against another
tenant.” (FAC, ¶ 49.) 
However, as noted by Fuentes, Plaintiffs also allege that “[o]n
February 15, 2022, Defendant FUENTES caused a default to be entered in the
unlawful detainer action against all unnamed occupants.” (FAC, ¶ 33,
emphasis added) Plaintiffs further allege that “[o]n May 9, 2022, Defendant
FUENTES obtained a Judgment on the unlawful detainer. The Judgment was against
Celia Roxana Moreno and unnamed occupants…” (FAC, ¶ 36, emphasis added.)
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ allegation that the subject unlawful detainer action was
“against another tenant” is inconsistent with the allegation that Plaintiffs
obtained a judgment “against Celia Roxana Moreno and unnamed occupants…”
(FACC, ¶¶ 36, 49, emphasis added.) 
The Court finds that Fuentes has shown that Plaintiffs’ first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of
action arise from protected activity, namely, the prosecution of the subject
unlawful detainer action. As discussed, “[t]he prosecution of an unlawful detainer action indisputably is
protected activity within the meaning of section
425.16. The constitutional right to petition…includes the basic act of
filing litigation or otherwise seeking administrative action.” (Birkner v. Lam, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 281 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
The Court does not find that
Fuentes has shown that the eighth cause of action
arises from protected activity. As set forth above, the eighth cause of action
alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants, pursuant to Civil Code 1950.5, were required to return to
Plaintiffs their security deposit once they vacated the SUBJECT
PROPERTY…Defendants, despite having Plaintiffs NOON, MENA and SALES removed
from the property, failed to return their respective security deposits.” (FAC,
¶¶ 91-92.) 
Therefore, the Court
finds that the burden now shifts to Plaintiffs on prong two with respect to the
first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, ninth, tenth, and
eleventh causes of action.  
D.    Prong Two – Probability of Prevailing 
“[P]laintiff must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Premier Medical Management
Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464, 476 [internal quotations and emphasis
omitted].) In making the prong
two determination, “the court shall consider the pleadings, and
supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).) “The court does not, however, weigh
[defendant’s] evidence against the plaintiff’s, in terms of either
credibility or persuasiveness. Rather, the defendant’s evidence is
considered with a view toward whether it defeats the plaintiff’s showing as a
matter of law, such as by establishing a defense or the absence of a necessary
element.” (1-800
Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585.)
In the motion, Fuentes argues that “Plaintiffs
cannot show a probability of prevailing on his first claim for wrongful
eviction because Defendant prevailed on the UD, obtaining judgment for
possession of the Subject Property against the named defendant in that action
as well as all occupants, which Plaintiffs were. Moreover, Plaintiffs cannot
show a probability of prevailing on the remainder of their claims because they
each flow from the UD action and are therefore barred by the litigation
privilege.” (Mot. at p. 3:20-25.)
With regard to the above argument pertaining to the
first cause of action, Fuentes’s counsel states in his supporting declaration
that “[o]n May 9, 2022, on behalf of FUENTES, I obtained a default
judgment against CISNEROS and Plaintiffs (as occupants of the Subject Property)
for eviction from the Subject Property. Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibit C
and Exhibit D.” (Tamer Decl., ¶ 4.) Exhibit D to Fuentes’s Request for Judicial
Notice is a May 12, 2022 “Judgment-Unlawful Detainer” in the matter Fermin Fuentes
v. Celia Roxana Moreno Cisneros, et al., Case No. 21STUD03199. (Fuentes’s
RJN, Ex. D.)[1] This May
12, 2022 Judgment provides, inter alia, that Fuentes is “entitled to
possession of the premises located at…1210 Magnolia Ave. Los Angeles, CA
90006.” (Fuentes’s RJN, Ex. D.) The Judgment further provides that “Judgment
applies to all occupants of the premises including tenants, subtenants if
any, and named claimants if any…” (Fuentes’s RJN, Ex. D, emphasis added.) 
As set forth above, Fuentes also asserts that “Plaintiffs
cannot show a probability of prevailing on the remainder of their claims
because they each flow from the UD action and are therefore barred by the
litigation privilege.” (Mot. at p. 3:23-25.) Allegations of each of the causes
of action of the FAC are discussed above. 

The Court notes that Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) provides in pertinent part that “[a] privileged
publication or broadcast is one made:…(b) In any (1) legislative proceeding, (2)
judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or
(4) in the initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized by law and
reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2…”  
“California’s litigation privilege
springs from Civil Code section 47. This statute
provides that ‘A privileged publication or broadcast is one made: [¶] (a) In
the proper discharge of an official duty [or] [¶] (b) In any (1) legislative
proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding authorized by law…’…The litigation privilege
applies to any communication made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings by
litigants or other participants to achieve the objects of the litigation that
has some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Paglia & Associates Construction, Inc. v.
Hamilton (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th
318, 324 [emphasis omitted].) The Court notes that “[t]he
litigation privilege is also relevant to the second step in the anti-SLAPP
analysis in that it may present a substantive defense a plaintiff must overcome
to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39
Cal.4th 299, 323.) “Pleadings and process in a case are generally viewed as
privileged communications.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
763, 770.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs
do not appear to dispute (or address) Fuentes’s assertion that the second
through eleventh causes of action of the FAC are “barred by the
litigation privilege.” (Mot. at p. 3:24-25.) Moreover, Plaintiffs’ opposition does not appear to contain any
argument pertaining to the second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis. Rather,
Plaintiffs argue that “[i]n the instant case, Plaintiffs need not show
that they can prevail in the underlying action, although their declarations
support such an outcome. In the present case, Defendant has not even met his
burden, mainly the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis, that Plaintiffs’
claims arise out of protected speech.” (Opp’n at pp. 9:25-10:2, emphasis
omitted.) 
The Court notes that “[t]he moving party
bears the initial burden of establishing a prima facie showing the plaintiff’s
cause of action arises from the defendant’s free speech or petition activity…If
the defendant establishes a prima facie case, then the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to establish a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim, i.e., make a prima facie showing of facts which would, if proved at
trial, support a judgment in plaintiff’s favor.” (Kyle v. Carmon (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 901, 907 [internal quotations and references to [Citation.] omitted, underline added.)
The Court does not find that Plaintiffs have met this burden here. As
discussed, Plaintiffs do not address Fuentes’s argument concerning the
litigation privilege. In addition, the opposition does not contain any argument
demonstrating how Plaintiffs will prevail on each of their causes of action. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to establish a probability of
prevailing on their first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, ninth,
tenth, and eleventh causes of action. 
E.     Attorney’s Fees 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision
(c)(1), “[e]xcept as provided in
paragraph (2), in any action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant
on a special motion to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s
fees and costs. If the court finds that a
special motion to strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and reasonable attorney’s fees
to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.” 

In the motion, Fuentes states that “[i]n
the event that Defendant prevails on this motion, pursuant to Section 425.16 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
Defendants will file a noticed motion for their fees and costs.” (Mot. at p.
10:2-3.) Fuentes may file a noticed motion concerning the issue of attorney’s
fees. 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs state that they “request the court deny
Defendant’s motion and award Plaintiffs attorney’s fees pursuant to CCP 425.16(c)(1) for filing a frivolous motion.”
(Opp’n at p. 15:23-24.) The Court does not find that the instant motion is
frivolous. The Court grants the motion as to each cause of action of the FAC
except the eighth cause of action. Thus, Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s
fees under Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1) is
denied.   
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Fuentes’s motion to
strike is granted as to the first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes
of action. Fuentes’s motion is denied as to
the eighth cause of action. 
Fuentes is ordered to provide notice of this
Order.  
 
DATED:  May 24, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


