  Case Number:  23STCP00041    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  86 DEMURRER TO PETITION FOR WRIT OF ADMINISTRATIVE
MANDAMUS
 
Date:               1/21/25
(1:30 PM)
Case:               Mr. Earnest A. Davis v. Los
Angeles County Child Support Services
(23STCP00041)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
            
Respondent Los Angeles County Child Support Services
Department’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
 
As a preliminary matter, respondent’s request for judicial
notice as to Exhibit A, the writ petition filed in the instant case, is
GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d). Respondent’s request for judicial
notice as to Exhibit B, a purported First Amended Petition for Writ of
Administrative Mandamus filed in Kern County Superior Court, is DENIED. There
is no indication on the document provided by respondent that the document was
ever filed in Kern County Superior Court, or any other court. Respondent’s request
for judicial notice as to Exhibit C, the Final Decision and Order issued by the
California Department of Social Services (“DCSS”) in In the Matter of
Earnest Davis v. Kern County Department of Social Services, Case No.
CS19031001 is GRANTED. (Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca
Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 599 [judicial notice taken
of official acts of state agencies].)
 
Petitioner alleges that he was subject to enforcement actions
on a child support order, but that he made all required payments. (Pet. at
7:13-8:8, 9:21-26, 9:22-26.) Due to the allegedly improper enforcement actions,
petitioner alleges his driver license and engineer licenses were suspended, his
bank accounts were levied and closed, his tax refunds were intercepted, and his
access to loans was thwarted. (Pet. at 7:17-24, 12:15-27.) Petitioner’s
complaints about his license suspensions were heard by an Administrative Law
Judge (“ALJ”). (Resp. RJN Ex. C.) Petitioner alleges that the ALJ did not
review his documentation, including his child support auto-payment history, did
not mention his Position Statement, and failed to accommodate his speech disability.
(Pet. at 5:24-6:2, 8:16-20, 8:22-27, 9:8-17, 9:26-10:11.)
 
Petitioner challenges the Final Decision and Order issued by
the ALJ pursuant to CCP § 1094.5. (Pet. at 1:27-2:2, 5:15-6:20, 8:17-20,
9:20-11, 9:23-11:11.) CCP § 1094.5 allows an inquiry “into the validity of any
final administrative order or decision made as the result of a proceeding in
which by law a hearing is required to be given, evidence is required to be
taken, and discretion in the determination of facts is vested in the inferior
tribunal, corporation, board, or officer….” (CCP § 1094.5(a).) 
 
Respondent demurs to the instant writ petition on the ground
that it is not a proper party in the case. The Court agrees.  Respondent Los Angeles County Child Support
Services Department was not a participant in the administrative proceedings.
(RJN Ex. C.) Indeed, in 2019, when the administrative matter was submitted, petitioner’s
child support case had long since been transferred from Los Angeles County to
Kern County in 2006. (RJN Ex. C at 1, 4 [¶ 15]; see also Pet. at 17:4-6
[“At some point, the responsibility to enforce the child support order was
transferred from LACDCSS to KCDCSS, and KCDCSS became the agency responsible
for enforcement of the child support order for the remainder of time that the
child support order was active”].)
 
A petition for writ of mandate under CCP § 1094.5 “shall
extend to the questions whether the respondent has proceeded without, or in
excess of, jurisdiction; whether there was a fair trial; and whether there was
any prejudicial abuse of discretion.” (CCP § 1094.5(b).) Because respondent Los
Angeles County Child Support Services Department had no role in the
administrative proceedings and had no responsibility for handling petitioner’s
child support matter at the time of the administrative proceedings, petitioner
fails to state how the Department had any role or responsibility with respect
to any proceeding without jurisdiction, failing to ensure a fair trial, or
prejudicially abusing discretion. 
 
Furthermore, when the custodial or noncustodial parent seeks
review of a final decision in a child support case through a petition filed
pursuant to CCP § 1094.5, in such a petition, “[t]he director shall be the sole
respondent in the proceedings.” (Fam. Code § 17803; see Fam. Code § 17801(a)
[allowing custodial or noncustodial parent a state hearing when dissatisfied
with local child support agency’s resolution of a complaint].) Here, rather
than naming the director of the California Department of Child Support Services
in this proceeding, petitioner has erroneously attempted to proceed against
respondent Los Angeles County Child Support Services Department.
 
The Court notes petitioner’s allegation that respondent
should have been included in the administrative hearing and that the ALJ did
not allow him to state his reasons for the proposed inclusion. (Pet. 10:12-21.)
The Court also notes petitioner’s allegation that respondent denied petitioner’s
request for a printout of his complete file, including his child support payment
and enforcement history. (Pet. at 15:5-7.) Even assuming the truth of these
allegations for purposes of the Demurrer, they do not transform this writ
proceeding challenging the ALJ’s decision under CCP § 1094.5 as one that is properly
brought against Los Angeles County Child Support Services Department, which had
no role in the administrative decision at issue.
 
Because petitioner fails to state how he is entitled to
relief from respondent under CCP § 1094.5, the demurrer must be sustained.
 
Even if petitioner could state a claim against respondent
under CCP § 1094.5, there are other fatal defects to the petition.  Petitioner had one year after receiving
notice of the final decision to file a writ petition with the Court. (Fam. Code
§ 17803 [“The custodial or noncustodial parent, within one year after receiving
notice of the director’s final decision, may file a petition with the superior
court, under Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, praying for a
review of the entire proceedings in the matter, upon questions of law involved
in the case”].) Notice of the ALJ’s Final Decision and Order was mailed to
petitioner on June 6, 2019. The instant writ petition was filed years later on
January 6, 2023, well past the one-year time period set forth in Family Code §
17803. Accordingly, even if respondent could be named in the instant
proceeding, the writ petition was untimely brought against respondent.
 
Furthermore, petitioner seeks monetary damages from
respondent, a public entity. (Pet. at 23:7-21.) “[U]ntil a written claim
therefor has been presented to the public entity and … acted upon by the board,
or … deemed to have been rejected by the board…,” the Government Claims Act
provides that “no suit for money or damages may be brought against [the] public
entity on [that] cause of action….” (Gov. Code § 945.4.) The timely
presentation of a claim is an essential element of a cause of action.  (State
of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1240.) Because
respondent is a public entity, petitioner must allege in good faith (and
ultimately prove) that he timely presented a written claim to the proper agency
within one year after accrual of the cause of action and that the claim was
acted upon or is otherwise deemed to have been rejected. (Gov. Code §§
911.2(a), 945.4.) The petition fails to so allege. 
 
Lastly, the Court notes that petitioner filed a
“Supplimental [sic] Declaration in Support of Opposition to Respondents’
Demurrer to Petitioner’s Petition for Writ of Mandate.” No proof of service was
attached indicating that respondent was served with the filing. Oppositions
must be served on each party nine court days before the hearing. (CCP §
1005(b).) Despite the lack of service, the Court has reviewed the filing and
finds that it does not address any of the grounds for demurrer presented by
respondent. Rather, petitioner reiterates his primary contention from the
petition that he never missed any payments on the child support order due to
the automatic wage garnishments to which he was subject. (Opp. at 2-3.)
 
Because respondent played no role in the administrative
proceedings petitioner challenges, because the writ petition was otherwise
untimely filed, and because petitioner did not allege the filing of a claim
with a government agency for money damages, the demurrer is SUSTAINED. In
addition, because petitioner has not requested leave to amend and has not
otherwise proffered how the above-described defects might reasonably be cured
via amendment, leave to amend is DENIED. 
 
Respondent shall submit a proposed Judgment of Dismissal
within five court days.  Within five
court days, petitioner shall make arrangements with court staff and
administration to collect the four volumes of records he lodged with the court.

 