


[1] The Agreement has already been recently enforced by this
Court against two former employees of Defendant, in a PAGA-only action pending
in Los Angeles County Superior Court, Salazar v. CPP-City of Industry Cast
Parts, Inc., Case No. 21PSCV00014 and Nunez v. Cast Parts, Inc. DBA
Consolidation Precision Products, Case No. 21STCV08428.
 


[2] As correctly observed by Defendant, the United States
Supreme Court has made clear that California policy that sought to prohibit
enforcement of arbitration agreements including class action waivers is
preempted by the FAA. (Id. at p. 341 [“When
state law prohibits outright the arbitration of a particular type of claim, the
analysis is straightforward: The conflicting rule is displaced by the FAA.”].) 


[3] Though not raised
by Defendant, this provision (regarding exempt claims) would typically be
employed by the employer not the employee. (See Martinez v. Master
Production Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 107, 115 [“Claims for unpaid wages, wrongful termination, employment
discrimination and the like invariably are brought by employees, while claims involving trade secrets, misuse or disclosure of confidential information, and unfair
competition typically are asserted only by
employers.”].) And Plaintiff is aware of this distinction as it it’s used to
argue substantive unconscionability. Thus, Plaintiff’s argument that this
provision also applies to Plaintiff’s claims is incongruent with the basis of
Plaintiff’s opposition.  
 


[4] Plaintiff’s opposition acknowledges this canon. (Opp. p.
3:18-19.)
 


[5] Thus, Plaintiff’s predominant reliance on Lacayo v.
Catalina Restaurant Group, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257-259
is inapposite because the arbitration agreement used “and/or” whereas here the
agreement only uses “and.”   
 


[6] Plaintiff’s heavy reliance upon Rebolledo v. Tilly’s,
Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 900, 920 is inapposite as not only the facts
involved numerous factual dissimilarities (i.e., plaintiff there could not
speak or read English), but also the agreement(s)
“expressly exclude[d] ‘any matter within the jurisdiction of the California
Labor commissioner.’” (Id. at p. 913.) Here, however, the
arbitration agreement does not make any reference to the Labor commissioner’s
jurisdiction regarding labor code violations. Plus, here, the agreement is
specific (not general) in that it states what is subject to arbitration and
what claims are not subject to arbitration. 

