 Case Number:  22STCV35280    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION OF PLAINTIFF’S CLAIMS ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS Re: 22STCV28338 (individual claims) is GRANTED.

 
(2)   Motion
to Compel Arbitration Re: 22STCV35280 (PAGA claims) is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
This is a PAGA action. 
 
On August 31, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit for six claims
related to wage and overtime and one claim for injunctive relief claim under
California's unfair competition law (UCL) pursuant to Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200 et seq.
 
On January 4, 2023, a notice of related case was filed.[1]

 
On March 28, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion. 
 
On September 18, 2023, the parties filed a stipulation to
continue the hearing. 
 
On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Defendant filed its Reply. 
 
On October 5, 2023, the court issued the following minute
order (in 22STCV28338): Plaintiff Counsel's oral motion to submit additional
briefing to the Court is heard and GRANTED. Plaintiff's Counsel is Ordered to
submit supplemental briefing due on or before October 20, 2023. Further,
Defense Counsel is Ordered to submit supplemental briefing due on or before
November 3, 2023. On the Court's own motion, the Hearing on Motion to Compel
Arbitration scheduled for 10/05/2023 is continued to 11/17/2023 at 10:00 AM in
Department O at Pomona Courthouse South.
 
On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed its supplemental
opposition.
 
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a ‘NOTICE OF ERRATA RE
SUPPLEMENTAL OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION,’
indicating “the incorrect draft of the Supplemental Opposition was filed and
served. The substantive contents of the correct version of the Supplemental
Opposition is not different from the incorrect version. In the correct version,
the table of contents is removed and unnecessary highlights are removed.”
(Notice of Errata p. 1.) 
 
On November 3, 2023, Defendant filed its supplemental reply.

 
Legal
Standard
 
The governing law is both federal and state in character. 
 
The FAA applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce.
(9 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2.)
Section 2 of the FAA provides in relevant part: “A written
provision in . . . a contract . . . to settle by
arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or
transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.)  Under the FAA, there is a strong policy
favoring arbitration.  (Moses H.
Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Construction (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 24; Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951,
971–972.)  “The overarching purpose of
the FAA is to ensure the enforcement of arbitration agreements according to
their terms …..”  (AT&T Mobility
LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 344 (Concepcion).)[2]  
 
On a motion to compel arbitration, a trial court is posed with
determining two questions: (1) whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties and (2) whether the claims are covered
within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) Both questions
present a matter of contract interpretation. (AT&T Technologies, Inc. v.
Communications Workers of America (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648 [“Arbitration is
a matter of contract….”].) 
 
The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration any
defense, such as unconscionability and waiver. 
(Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (Pinnacle); see St. Agnes Medical Center
v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195.)   
 
In an answer in the affirmative as to both “leaves no room
for the exercise of discretion by a [] court, but instead mandates that []
court[] shall direct the parties to
proceed to arbitration on issues as to which an arbitration agreement has been
signed.” (Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v.
Byrd (1985) 470 U.S. 213, 213.) 
 
Discussion
 
Re: Case No.: 22STCV28338
 
Defendant moves to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiffs’ Claims
on an Individual Basis within arbitration. (See Proposed Order.) 
 
The Agreement, which is governed by the Federal Arbitration
Act (Zuniga Decl., Ex. A., p. 9 of 14 of PDF) states in pertinent part: 
 
This Arbitration Agreement is entered
into between the employee and Consolidated Precision Products, its divisions,
affiliates, subsidiaries and each of its or their respective officers,
directors, employees, representatives… (collectively ‘the Company’)… The
parties hereby mutually waive their right to a jury or court trial of any
and all Covered  Claim and mutually
waive their right to maintain or participate in any Class Action… in  any forum… Examples of the type of disputes
or claims under the MAP include, but are not limited  to… wage or overtime claims or other claims
under any other state or local wage laws, 
and/or any other legal or equitable claims and causes or
action recognized by local, state 
or federal law or regulations… (Motion p. 1, emphasis added.) 
 
Effectively, based off the plain language of the Arbitration
Agreement, Plaintiff waived his right to a class action suit and consented to
arbitrate any individual wage/PAGA-related claims. And as the FAA applies, the
law is well-settled that arbitration agreements limiting an employee to
pursuing claims individually are enforceable. (See Epic Sys. Corp. v. Lewis
(2018) 138 S. Ct. 1612, 1619.) Thus, as the agreement is not susceptible to an
interpretation that the claims are not covered by arbitration, the order to
arbitrate should not be denied. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff raises the following rebuttals: 
 
-       
The court must deny the motion to compel arbitration in
relation to plaintiff’s business and professions code section 17200 claims
because the agreement has an express carve out for injunctive and equitable
claims related to claims for unfair competition. 
-       
The Arbitration Agreement is Unconscionable and Unenforceable.
 
1.    
Whether The Agreement Exempts Injunctive and
Equitable Relief Claims Based On Unfair Competition 
 
In section 5 of the agreement, titled “Claims Not Covered
Under [Mutual Arbitration Agreement],” the agreement states the following:
 
MAP does not cover … a claim by either
party for injunctive or other equitable relief related to claims for unfair
competition AND the use or unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or
confidential information,…, for which either party may seek and obtain relief
from a court of competent jurisdiction without waiving the obligation under
this Agreement to otherwise pursue such claims by way of mediation, and if
necessary, arbitration…
 
(Ex. A, emphasis and capitalization added.)[3]

 
Applying the principles of
contract law, a court must take the contract as a whole, “so as to give effect to every
part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.” (Vaughn v. Tesla, Inc. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 208, 219.), internal citation
omitted.) With that in mind, whether under state or federal law, “any
ambiguities or doubts about the scope of an arbitration agreement must
be resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy,
Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 323,
emphasis added.)[4]
 
Here, as raised by Defendant
in Reply, Plaintiff does not read the provision in its entirety. The plain
text signals that only claims for unfair competition “and” (i.e., predicated
on) the use or unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential
information is exempt. (Reply p. 2:21-24.) The ordinary and usual usage of
‘and’ is as a conjunctive, meaning ‘“an additional thing,”’ ‘also’ or ‘plus.’”
(Reply p. 3, citing In re C.H., 53 Cal.4th 94, 101 (2011). Accordingly,
read as a conjunctive, a UCL claim would only be excluded from
arbitration if it was also brought forth with, also, or plus the use or
unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential information. Here,
however, there is no such claim, meaning the UCL claim is not excluded from
arbitration.[5]
(See also Reply p. 3 [discussing the punctuation of the ‘Exemption Clause’
further supports the interpretation].)
 
To the extent that in its
supplemental opposition Plaintiff contends that the court’s reliance and
Defendant’s citation to In re C.H. was unavailing as the case involved
statutory interpretation, not contract interpretation, that distinction does
not necessarily render the case inapposite. After all, similar to statutory
interpretation which starts with the “statute's words,
assigning them their usual and ordinary meanings, and construing them in
context” (X.M. v. Superior Court (2021)
68 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1021), contract interpretation also looks at the plain
meaning of the text. 
In lieu of In re C.H.,
Plaintiff cites Amerigraphics, Inc. v. Mercury Casualty Co. (2010) 182
Cal.App.4th 1538 to argue that the use of “and” carves out two distinct types
of claims for injunctive or equitable relief, claims for “unfair competition”
and the “use or unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential
information.” (Supp. Opp. p. 6.) But Amerigraphics is inapposite as it involved an insurance policy
and “[i]n insurance policy, coverage provisions are interpreted broadly
so as to afford the greatest possible protection to the insured, whereas
exclusionary clauses are interpreted narrowly.” (Id. at p. 1551.) Arbitration provisions
however are to be construed to favor of arbitration (i.e., affording
greatest protection to the employer). 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff in
opposition relies upon Lacayo v. Catalina Restaurant Group, Inc. (2019)
38 Cal.App.5th 244 and Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Prods. Co.
(2000) 23 Cal.4th 163 to support its proposition that “at minimum, the Court
must deny the arbitration agreement in relation to Plaintiff’s seventh cause of
action seeking equitable relief based on claims of unfair competition in the
form of injunction and restitution in violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 because the agreement expressly permits such claims to
proceed in court or arbitration,” (Opp. p. 1:8-12; see also Opp. p. 3 [header
2]), neither case is instructive. 
 
In Lacayo, in addition to
the section entitled “Claims Covered by the Agreement” that pertained to
standard wage claims, there was another section entitled “Claims Not Covered by
the Agreement.” It consisted of the following language:
 
Claims that Employee may have for workers'
compensation, unemployment compensation benefits, or claims deemed not subject
to arbitration under law are not covered by this Agreement. [¶] Upon a
showing of reasonable cause, either party to this Agreement may petition
a court of competent jurisdiction for immediate injunctive and/or
equitable relief for unfair competition and/or the use and/or
unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential information.
 
(Id. at p. 249, emphasis
added.)
 
In determining that there was a
specific exemption agreed to by the parties in the arbitration agreement for
unfair competition claims, the court concluded so (with minimal analysis)
because the terms of the contract were “clear” that “the parties intended to
exempt the UCL claim from arbitration.” (Id. at p. 258.)
 
However, the language of the
provisions differs. Whereas in Lacayo the UCL claim standing alone is
exempted, here, a UCL claim is exempted if it is predicated upon or based
upon the unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential
information. Put another way, the language in Lacayo would be similar if
it read that “injunctive and/or equitable relief for unfair competition AND the
use and/or unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential information”
are exempted. Rather, the exemption clause in Lacayo’s use of the word
“or” suggests alternatives (i.e., the UCL claim is a separate, alternative
claim than one use and/or unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or
confidential information. (See Reply p. 5.)  
 
Regarding Cortez, the case
does not involve an arbitration agreement; therefore, the case is irrelevant. 
 
In its supplemental brief,
Plaintiff addresses another case: Duran v. EmployBridge Holding Co.
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 59. But that case is also distinguishable. 
 
There, the arbitration agreement
had a broad agreement to arbitrate claims which included “any dispute between
[Duran] and the company” which “may include but are not limited to claims for
or under: … wages, salary, compensation, reimbursement, penalties, … the
Federal Labor Standards Act and comparable state or local laws.” (Id. It p.
62.) However, the agreement also referenced that PAGA claims are exempt from
arbitration by stating “Claims for unemployment compensation, claims under the
National Labor Relations Act, claims under PAGA, claims for workers'
compensation benefits, and any claim that is non-arbitrable under applicable
state or federal law are not arbitrable under this Agreement.” (Id. at
63.) The court (again with minimal analysis and relying on the unambiguous
language that
claims under PAGA are not arbitrable under the agreement (id. at p. 67),
denied the motion to compel arbitration PAGA labor code violations. 
 
However, unlike Duran wherein
one part of the provision stated that wage claims are subject to arbitration
but then in another provision stated that PAGA claims (which pertains to wage
violations) is not subject to arbitration—thus, creating ambiguiety—here,
no ambiguiety exists: wage claims are subject to arbitration and claims for
unfair competition and (i.e., predicated on) the use or unauthorized disclosure
of trade secrets or confidential information ae excluded from arbitration. (See
also Supp. Reply p. 6.) 
 
In sum, abiding the basic canon
that words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and popular
sense (Civil Code section 1644), here, all the claims fall under
arbitration.[6]

 
2.    
Unconscionability 
 
The California Supreme Court has stated the following
regarding the general principles of unconscionability. 
 
 A contract is unconscionable if one of the
parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding whether to agree and the
contract contains terms that are unreasonably favorable to the other party.
Under this standard, the unconscionability doctrine has both a procedural and a
substantive element. The procedural element addresses the circumstances of
contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to
unequal bargaining power. Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness
of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly
harsh or one-sided. Both procedural and substantive unconscionability must be
shown for the defense to be established, but they need not be present in the
same degree. Instead, they are evaluated on ‘a sliding scale.’ [T]he
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable. Conversely, the more deceptive or coercive the bargaining
tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is required … The ultimate
issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently
unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.
 
 
(OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 125-126, internal citations omitted, emphasis added.)
 
a.    
Procedural unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff’s only argument as to procedural
unconscionability is that he had to sign the agreement.  (Opp. p. 9.)
 
But the inquiry
does not end there. “The
pertinent question, then, is whether circumstances of the contract's formation
created such oppression or surprise that closer scrutiny of its overall
fairness is required. Oppression occurs where a
contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Ibid, internal
citations omitted, italics original). To determine the presence of such
circumstances, there are five considerations to examine: “(1) the amount of
time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount
and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3)
the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the
challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5)
whether the party's review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney.” (Id. at pp. 126-128.) 
 
Here, however, Plaintiff has
provided no facts about the circumstances surrounding the
formation and negotiations of the Arbitration Agreement. “Absent any evidence, we cannot just assume there was procedural
unconscionability.” (Performance Team Freight Systems, Inc. v. Aleman (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1248; see also Reply p. 6, citing to Torrecillas
v. Fitness Int’l LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 484, 493 [“Whether the agreement was or was not a contract of
adhesion is not the core question. Rather, from the standpoint of determining
whether there was procedural unconscionability, the core issues are surprise
and oppression.”].) 
 
In its supplemental opposition
(and in response to the court’s original tentative), Plaintiff argues that it
did provide evidence of procedural unconscionability: it was an adhesion
contract. (Supp. Opp. p. 7.) In support of its contention that an adhesion
contract alone evidences procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff cites
to Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482, 490. Upon
appeal, as the trial court’s ruling was not contested, the court held that “low degree of procedural unconscionability due to the
adhesive nature of the agreement.” (Id; see also Ramirez v. Charter
Communications, Inc. (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 365, 373 [““[T]he adhesive
nature of the contract is sufficient to establish some degree of procedural
unconscionability.”].) 
 
But neither case is a California Supreme Court case
and OTO has answered otherwise. The pertinent question, even with an
adhesion contract, is “whether circumstances of the contract's formation
created such oppression or surprise that closer scrutiny of its overall
fairness is required.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.) The requirement
of a showing of oppression or surprise for procedural unconscionability is
further suggested by the court’s organization of the opinion: the first header
is dedicated to ‘Procedural Unconscionability’ (pages 126-129) and the second
header discusses ‘Substantive Unconscionability’ (pages 129 to 138.) Had the
analysis merely ended with a finding of an adhesion contract, the state Supreme
Court would not have discussed other factors required to show procedural
unconscionability; its analysis would have ended with a finding of an adhesion
contract. To the extent that Plaintiff cites to Grand Prospect Partners,
L.P. (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1332, that is not a California Supreme Court
case and was decided before OTO. 
 
Therefore, the court adheres to its
original ruling in that Plaintiff did not make an adequate showing of
procedural unconscionability. As both procedural and substantive
unconscionability of a contract must be shown for the defense of
unconscionability to be established and Plaintiff has not shown the former,
Plaintiff has not established that the agreement is unconscionable. 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion
is granted. 
 
As the arguments raised in
22STCV28338 (seeking that Plaintiff pursue the individual PAGA claims alleged
in his Complaint within arbitration and on an individual basis) are largely
similar if not identical, that motion is also granted. 
 
Thus, both motions are granted, and
the matters are stayed, not dismissed. 
 


