  Case Number:  23STCV13443    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA
  RODRIGUEZ 
 
         vs.
 
GENERAL
  MOTORS, LLC 
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCV13443 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  February 16, 2024




 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. Accordingly, the Court
declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
            On
6/12/2023, Plaintiff Maria Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed suit against General
Motors, LLC, alleging violations of Song-Beverly Act. 
 
            On
11/9/2023, Plaintiff moved to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Plaintiff
argues that an order compelling Defendant to produce a PMK is necessary.
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed to produce a witness to be deposed
on the noticed categories, and has engaged in gamesmanship. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant indicates that it agreed, and remains willing, to produce
a PMQ on 9 of the 23 categories in Plaintiff’s PMK deposition notice. 
 
            After
review, the Court finds the categories noticed by Plaintiff to be overbroad,
but Defendant’s proposed scope of the PMQ deposition to be too narrow.
 
            For
example, Plaintiff seeks Defendant’s policies and procedures for evaluating and
investigating whether a vehicle qualifies for repurchase or replacement under
California Lemon Law, without any temporal limit. However, Defendant argues
that its internal policies and procedures for how it generally handles other
consumers’ warranty claims and repurchase requests for other vehicles have
“zero relevance” to this claim. (Opp., 6: 8-9.) 
 
            In
general, the Court finds the following categories of information to be
relevant: 
            
1.     
The “Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair
facilities, within the State of California, for the period of purchse  to present.
 
2.     
Any internal analysis or
investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect in vehicles
for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Any customer complaints relating to defects
that are similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in vehicles within
California for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle, for the
period of purchase to present.
 
4.     
 All documents evidencing policies and
procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of purchase to present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle.  
 
Here,
the Court finds all noticed deposition categories related to the Subject
Vehicle to be relevant. The Court limits the temporal scope of all other
requests to the period of purchase to the present.  
 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel is granted in part, denied in
part. Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 