 Case Number:  22GDCV00884    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – NORTHEAST DISTRICT 
DEPARTMENT V 
ALBERT GUKASYAN, 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
MANOUK SINANIAN; and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive, 
Defendants. 
Case No: 22GDCV00884 
Hearing Date: November 18, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m. [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO SET ASIDE OR
VACATE DISMISSAL, OR MAINTAIN THE CASE ON CIVIL ACTIVE STATUS 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff ALBERT GUKASYANRESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed The court considered the moving
papers.
 BACKGROUND
This is a premises liability action. Plaintiff Albert
Gukasyan filed the complaint against defendant Manouk Sinanian on November 16,
2022, alleging general negligence and premises liability causes of action. On
November 16, 2020 the ceiling collapsed at plaintiff’s residence located at 806
E. Acacia Ave., Apt. B, Glendale, CA 91205 (subject property). Plaintiff
alleges that defendant owns, leases, occupies, operates, maintains, and
controls the subject property and it was due to defendant’s negligence that the
ceiling collapsed and caused plaintiff’s injuries.
Defendant was served on September 10, 2023, by substituted
service. Defendant did not file an Answer and plaintiff did not request to
enter default. On June 24, 2024, counsel for plaintiff did not make an
appearance at the Order to Show cause hearing regarding sanctions/dismissal for
failure to proceed with entry of default/default judgment and the court
dismissed the matter without prejudice, the case for lack of prosecution.
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on October 15, 2024. No
opposition has been received. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides, in relevant
part: The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).) Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b) further provides that “the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.” (Id.)
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves for an order vacating the order of dismissal
on the grounds of mistake and inadvertence, in that the failure of counsel for
plaintiff, David Yerkanyan, Esq. to make an appearance at the hearing was due
to mistaken belief that the proceedings were going to be held on July 24, 2024,
rather than June 24, 2024 David Yerkanyan, Esq., plaintiff’s counsel states he
believed the OSC was scheduled for July 24, 2024. (Decl. of David Yerkanyan, ¶
1.) Defense counsel informed plaintiff’s counsel that she drafted an answer and
cross-complaint, and that defendant’s insurance carrier was aware and preparing
an answer as well, however, plaintiff’s counsel was still preparing a motion
for default judgment for July 24, 2024. (Decl. of David Yerkanyan, ¶¶ 4, 5.)
Plaintiff’s counsel discovered his mistake when he was preparing the motion for
default judgment on June 24, 2024, checked the court’s website and saw the case
was dismissed. (Decl. of Yerkanyan, ¶ 8.)
The court finds that the case was dismissed due to
plaintiff’s counsel’s mistake in that the hearing was set on July 24, 2024 as
laid out by plaintiff’s counsel’s affidavit of fault. Plaintiff has timely
filed this motion within six months of the dismissal. Accordingly, the court
grants plaintiff’s motion to vacate the dismissal.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS plaintiff’s motion
to vacate dismissal. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.