 Case Number:  24STCV16493    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARIA MERCEES FAJARDO 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
ALAL, LLC d/b/a
  KEI-AI LOS ANGELES HEALTHCARE CENTER 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV16493 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 29, 2024



 
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This action is stayed pending the
completion of arbitration. 
 
            On
7/2/2024, Plaintiff Maria Mercedes Fajardo (Plaintiff) filed suit against ALAL,
LLC d/b/a KEI-AI Los Angeles Healthcare Center (Defendant), alleging: (1)
disability discrimination; (2) failure to accommodate; (3) failure to engage in
interactive process; (4) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5) age
discrimination; (6) failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation; and (7)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
 
            On
8/30/2024, Defendant moved to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint, and
stay this action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“Where
the Court has determined that an agreement to arbitrate a controversy exists,
the Court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy …unless it determines that… 
grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support rescission are fraud, duress, and
unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky
Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The Court may also decline
to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
1.      Defendants’
Burden
 
The party
moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving [the] existence [of
an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party also bears the burden
of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of the arbitration
agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
            
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that Plaintiff entered into an Arbitration Agreement with
Defendant on 4/292/2024. (Flores Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that at the time the agreement was presented to
her, she was unable to fully comprehend a contract presented only in English.
 
However,
Defendant submitted evidence that because Plaintiff’s role is client-facing,
the job description for Certified Nursing Assistant (Plaintiff’s position)
specifically required as an essential function of her job, that the person
“must be able to read, write, speak and understand English language.” (Flores
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. D.) Relatedly, Plaintiff signed a “Languages in the Workplace
Acknowledgement” that similarly confirmed, as follows: “I understand that for
the respect of our patients/residents, efficiency of communication, and the
inclusion of colleagues while clocked in for work and in the common or patient
areas of the facility, English is the language that must be spoken.” (Flores
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. E.)
 
As such, the
preponderance of evidence does not support a conclusion that Plaintiff was
unable to comprehend the English-language contract. Moreover, Defendant
submitted evidence that a Spanish version of the arbitration agreement was also
available for any employees who requested or preferred to review it in Spanish.
(Flores Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
There was no
deadline associated with the signing of the agreement, and thus Plaintiff had
the opportunity to ask for clarification if there were aspects of the Agreement
she was unfamiliar with, or was confused by. Plaintiff does not indicate that
she ever availed herself of this opportunity. 
 
Given that Defendant
has established by a preponderance of the evidence that an arbitration
agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that agreement,
the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration clause
should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236. (Pinnacle).)
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Burden
 
The party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence any defense, such as unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
“Unconscionability has both procedural
and substantive elements. Although both must appear for a court to invalidate a
contract or one of its individual terms, they need not be present in the same
degree: ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’”  (Roman
v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469. (“Roman”).) Where the degree of procedural unconscionability is low,
“the agreement will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive
unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian v.
CantorCO2e (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 (Ajamian).)
 
A.    Procedural
Unconscionability
 
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no
real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise involves the
extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’
drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’ ” (Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1469.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1) it is a
contract of adhesion, and (2) a copy of the applicable AAA rules were not
attached to the agreement.
 
I.      
Adhesion Contract
 
Where
pre-employment adhesion contracts are involved, a degree of procedural
unconscionability is always present. This is because, “the arbitration
agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and few
employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
agreement.” (Little v. Auto Stiegler,
Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071 (Little).)  However, where “there is no other indication
of oppression or surprise, the degree of procedural unconscionability of an
adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement will be enforceable unless the
degree of substantive unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at p. 796.) 
 
Therefore,
while Plaintiff is correct that including the arbitration clause within a
contract of adhesion indicates a degree of procedural unconscionability, there
must be other indications of oppression or surprise to render the agreement
unenforceable. (Little, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p.1071; Ajamian, supra, 203
Cal.App.4th at p. 796.) 
 
II.              
Copy of AAA-Rules
 
As additional
evidence of procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff points to Defendant’s
failure to attach a copy of the applicable JAMS-rules to the Arbitration
Agreement. However, courts have held that a failure to attach arbitration rules
is insufficient, by itself, to sustain a finding of procedural
unconscionability. (Peng v. First
Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Furthermore, the
applicable rules are available online. 
 
The Court
concludes that Defendants’ failure to directly attach a copy of the applicable
JAMS rules does not amount to procedural unconscionability. Because Plaintiff
has shown no other indication of oppression or surprise outside of the
existence of an employment adhesion agreement, the agreement will be
enforceable unless Plaintiff can demonstrate a high degree of substantive
unconscionability. (Ajamian, supra, Cal.App.4th at p. 796.) 
 
B.   
Substantive
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because (1) it
has a carve-out for preliminary/injunctive relief; (2) fails to guarantee an
award of attorney fees to the Plaintiff if she is the prevailing party; (3) it
has non-mutual provisions; and (4) it prohibits representative PAGA actions.
 
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results,’ that is, whether
contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively unreasonable or
unexpected manner.” (Roman, supra, 172
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.)
Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but typically is found
in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is ‘one-sided,’ in
favor of the employer without sufficient justification. (Ibid.) Common examples of substantive unconscionability include
“when ‘the employee's claims against the employer, but not the employer's
claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration’” (Ibid.), or when employees are required to pay excessive fees to
gain access to the administrative forum. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 90-91.) 
 
“Where appropriate, courts
have discretion to sever or limit the application of unconscionable provisions
and enforce the remainder of an arbitration agreement under Civil Code section 1670.5, subdivision (a).” (Ramos,
supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at p. 1065.)
Circumstances in which severability can be appropriate include where the
unconscionability can be cured by striking the offending clause or clauses. (Id. at p. 1069.)
 
As for the
first contention, the carve-out for preliminary and/or injunctive relief
applies equally to employer and employee. Thus, while Plaintiff may contend
that Defendant is more likely to avail itself of this provision, there are a
number of injunctive relief claims an employee may pursue. As such, the Court
is unpersuaded that this is an indication of substantive unconscionability. 
 
As for the
second contention, the agreement provides that “[i]f any party prevails on a statutory
claim that affords the prevailing party attorneys’ fees and costs . . . the
Arbitrator may award reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to the prevailing
party.” (Flores Decl., Exh. A.) As such, the Agreement does not limit the
ability to recover attorney fees or any type of relief otherwise available in
court because the Arbitration Agreement states that the Arbitrator “has the
authority to award the Parties all form[s] of relief that would otherwise be
available to the Parties in a court of law …” (Id.) As such, the Court
interprets the Agreement’s use of “may award” as affirming the arbitrator’s
ability to award any fees and costs Plaintiff would otherwise be entitled to as
prevailing party. The Court is therefore unpersuaded that this is an indication
of substantive unconscionability.
 
As for the
third contention, Plaintiff argues that there is non-mutuality as to the
confidentiality provision and the covered parties impacted by the Arbitration
Agreement. However, Plaintiff offers no substantive explanation as to how the
provision “JAMS and the Arbitrator shall maintain the confidential nature of
the Arbitration proceeding and the Award, including the Hearing, . . . .” is
nonmutual, nor did Plaintiff submit any caselaw which could show a similar
provision has been found to be substantively unconscionable. As to coverage
scope, Plaintiff argues that:
 
The Agreement
required Ms. Fajardo to arbitrate any claims she “may have against the Company
or against its officers, directors, supervisors, managers, employees, or agents
in their capacity as such . . . .” Thus, while the Agreement requires Ms.
Fajardo to arbitrate her claims against anyone affiliated with Defendant,” it
only requires “the Company” (defined narrowly as Kei-Ai) to arbitrate its
claims against Ms. Fajardo.
 
            (Opp.,
14: 6-9.)
 
            However,
tellingly, Plaintiff did not cite any analogous caselaw which could show that
Defendant’s inclusion of its officers, directors, supervisors, managers,
employees, or agents was overly broad or an indication of unconscionability. 
 
Finally,
Section 5(b) of the Agreement purports to waive the employee’s right to bring
or participate in any representative action “in arbitration or otherwise.”
Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not contain a representative PAGA action.
Therefore, while the arbitration agreement’s PAGA waiver is unenforceable as a
matter of law, it can easily be severed from the Complaint without fundamentally altering the parties’
agreement regarding the scope of arbitration and the powers of the arbitrators
to provide relief. (Ramos, supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at p. 1065.) 
 
The Court
concludes that Plaintiff has failed to show any evidence of substantive
unconscionability. While Plaintiff has demonstrated a degree of procedural
unconscionability, he has not demonstrated any degree of substantive
unconscionability. As a result, the Court finds that the arbitration agreement
is enforceable. (Ajamian, supra, Cal.App.4th at p. 796.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. This action is
stayed pending the completion of arbitration.
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 