  Case Number:  23STCV06977    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHELLE
  RAMOS 
                           
         vs.
 
CAROLINE
  RAMOS, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 23STCV06977
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 29, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
 
On 3/29/2023,
Plaintiff Michelle Ramos (Plaintiff) filed suit. On 9/8/2023, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint (FAC) against Caroline Ramos, Katherine Ramos, and
Rituel De Fille, Inc. (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) breach of
license agreement; (2) breach of license agreement; (3) breach of fiduciary
duty (partnership); (4) breach of fiduciary duty (corporate); (5) breach of
employment agreement/wrongful termination; (6) misappropriation of trade
secret; (7) accounting; and (8) unfair competition. 
 
            On
7/25/2024, Plaintiff moved for summary adjudication of her Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
moves this Court to summarily adjudicate the following: that (1) Michelle,
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Katherine Ramos (Katherine) and Caroline
Ramos (Caroline) formed a partnership for the manufacture and sale of
cosmetics; (2) they agreed to incorporate a company in which they would be
equal owners and to which they would license the IP they had created; (3) a
lawful agreement to license the IP was fully performed by Michelle, Katherine,
and Caroline on the one hand and the company (i.e., Defendants and
Cross-Complainant Rituel de Fille, Inc. (RDF) they formed on the other; (4)
that the unilateral and unjustified cancellation by RDF, Katherine and Caroline
of the License Agreement and their continued use of the IP constituted
misappropriation of the IP; and (5) Michelle was damaged because after
cancellation of the license agreement she was no longer remunerated for the
company’s use of the IP although Katherine and Caroline continued to be.
 
            In
support, Plaintiff submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
In approximately 2012, Michelle,
Caroline, and Katherine created a partnership for the purpose of developing and
selling cosmetics. This included creating tangible and intangible assets,
including proprietary formulas, packaging layout and design, testing, color and
shade creation, scent development, and proprietary marketing systems (IP). They
continued this work together for approximately ten years. (SS 1.) 
 
-        
In approximately the fall of 2013, they
decided to form Rituel de Fille, Inc. (RDF) as a “C” corporation in which they
would be equal shareholders. (SS 2.) 
 
-        
On August 28, 2013, they filed articles
of incorporation with the State of California. Michelle was listed as the
Treasurer. Katherine has been the President and “run the company” since 2013.
(SS 3.) 
 
-        
Michelle, Katherine and Caroline signed
a “LICENSE AGREEMENT” which bears the date August 28, 2013. (SS 4.) 
 
-        
The LICENSE AGREEMENT defines the
Licensors as Michelle, Katherine, and Caroline, and the Licensee as RDF. It
further states: “It is understood and agreed that the Licensor is the sole and
exclusive owner of all rights, title and interest in and to the Licensed
Property, defined as “intangible and tangible assets to include, proprietary
formulas, packaging layout & design, testing, color & shade creation,
scents development, and proprietary marketing systems for the sale of cosmetics
to the public.” (SS 5.) 
 
-        
Pursuant to the LICENSE AGREEMENT, the
“Licensee agrees to pay the Licensor the Royalty recited in Schedule A attached
hereto based on the Licensee’s net Sales (the “Actual Royalty” in exchange for
an exclusive right to utilize the Licensed Property. (SS 6.) 
 
-        
Beginning as early as April 21, 2016
and continuing through July 19, 2022 Katherine, Caroline and Michelle
characterized the payments they received from RDF as royalties. (SS 7.) 
 
-        
In approximately 2018, the IRS
initiated an audit of RDF’s 2017 tax return, during the course of which RDF
asserted to the IRS that it paid RDF’s owners a royalty pursuant to the LICENSE
AGREEMENT. (SS 8.) 
 
-        
After the IRS concluded the audit in
2019, Michelle, Katherine and Caroline continued to receive royalty payments
from RDF through July of 2022. (SS 9.) 
 
-        
In August of 2022, Katherine and
Caroline terminated the LICENSE AGREEMENT. (SS 10.) 
 
-        
The LICENSE AGREEMENT states: “If this
Agreement is terminated . . . the Licensee . . . shall have not right to offer
for sale, sell, advertise, promote, or use the Licensed Property or to use in
any way any Promotional Material relating to Licensed Property.” It states
further: “After the expiration of termination of this Agreement, all rights
granted to the Licensee shall forthwith revert to the Licensor…” (SS 11.) 
 
-        
In July 2022, Katherine and Caroline
removed Michelle Ramos as an officer and board member of RDF, and terminated
her access to the company server. (SS 12.) 
 
-        
RDF continued to formulate and sell
cosmetics after the termination of the License Agreement and the removal of
Michelle Ramos as an officer and board member of RDF. (SS 13.) 
 
-        
Katherine Ramos and Caroline Ramos have
received a salary from RDF on a monthly basis for the period, and holiday
bonus, beginning July 2022. (SS 14.) 
 
-        
None of the founders of RDF ever
received any salary, bonus or a W-2 from RDF prior to 2022. (SS 15.) 
 
-        
Michelle Ramos has received no salary,
dividend, royalty or other compensation from RDF since August 2022. (SS 16.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference as to the five findings of fact sought
in her motion.  
 
            However,
as noted by Defendant, a motion for summary adjudication can only be granted
“if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (CCP § 437c(f)(1).) Here, Plaintiff
does not state what causes of action, affirmative defenses, damages, or issues
of duty are the subject of her motion. Rather, she asks the Court to make five
findings of fact. Such is not proper for a summary adjudication motion. Second,
Plaintiff’s motion does not specifically state who she is moving against. As
such, it is unclear from her motion whether she is moving against one
Defendant, or all three. 
 
Moreover,
even setting aside these deficiencies, Defendants have set forth evidence sufficient
to disclose a triable issue of material fact. More specifically, Defendants
submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Plaintiff did not join RDF until June
10, 2013 in exchange for her small financial investment. (SS 1.) 
 
-        
Prior to Michelle’s involvement,
Katherine and Caroline developed the concept that became RDF and began
developing all product formulas in May 2010. Prior to Michelle joining RDF, on
the product development side, Katherine and Caroline developed extensive
intellectual property including the RDF brand itself, product names, formulas,
coloring, and packaging, which is is all owned by RDF. (Ibid.)  
 
-        
The first time a draft of the 2019
License Agreement was provided to the Ramos Sisters was on December 12, 2018.
Michelle admits that she backdated this agreement to August 28, 2013. (SS 29.)
 
-        
The CPA Plaintiff hired to handle RDF’s
taxes and financials is her family member, a convicted felon who lost his
accounting license due to being convicted in 2009 of a felony for tax evasion
(SS 26.)
 
-        
Michelle intentionally misrepresented
to the Ramos Sisters that the purpose of the 2019 Fraudulent License Agreement
was only for tax purposes and that the business could not survive without this
agreement. (AF 30.) Michelle backdated the 2019 Fraudulent License Agreement to
2013 because that was the date of RDF’s incorporation.
 
-        
Michelle never owned any of RDF’s
intellectual property. (SS 31.) 
 
As such,
Defendants submitted evidence that they were fraudulently induced to sign the
License Agreement based on knowingly false representations by Plaintiff. “[A]
contract induced by fraud renders the entire agreement voidable, permitting the
aggrieved party to defend a suit on the contract by objecting to its
enforcement because procured or induced by fraud.” (Filet Menu, Inc. v.
C.C.L. & G, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 852, 861.) Defendants also
submitted evidence that even assuming the License Agreement was valid, they
would still be able to re-license property back to RDF, via, paragraph 13 (c)
of the Agreement which notes that the rights shall “revert to Licensor who
shall be free to license others to use the Property.” (AF 30.)
 
Taken
together, Defendants’ evidence supports a reasonable inference that the License
Agreement is invalid, and that Defendants did not breach it even if it were
valid. Plaintiff’s motion did not adequately address her trade secret, unfair
competition, wrongful termination, and accounting claims and thus did not meet
her burden with respect to those claims. Moreover, there are procedural issues
with Plaintiff’s motion which made adjudication inappropriate at this time.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 