  Case Number:  22STCV00517    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
HERMENGILDO
  AHUMADA-BURGARA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
M.S. AEROSPACE INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV00517
  Hearing Date:  October 18, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to compel deposition




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 6, 2022, Plaintiff Hermenegildo
Ahumada-Burgara filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants
M.S. Aerospace Inc. and Harry Smith. Plaintiff alleges that he is a disabled
Latino male over 40 years old who was terminated while on medical leave and
replaced by a younger, less qualified employee. Defendant M.S. Aerospace was
allegedly Plaintiff’s employer, and Defendant Smith is allegedly a manager of
M.S. Aerospace. 
            On October 31, 2022, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. Arbitration was thereafter
initiated, and an arbitrator was appointed. However, on May 17, 2023, JAMS
issued an invoice for $86,000 that was due upon receipt. Defendant did not pay
the invoice on the due date or within thirty days. On July 31, 2023, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motion to withdraw from arbitration. 
            On August 10, 2023, Defendant M.S.
Aerospace served a notice of deposition upon Plaintiff, for a deposition at defense
counsel’s offices on September 5, 2023. (Giamela Decl., Ex. A.) Defendant also offered
alternative dates of September 6 or 8. (Id., Ex. B.) On August 30, 2023,
Plaintiff served his objections to the notice of deposition, asserting, inter
alia, that the parties had previously agreed to conduct the deposition
remotely. (Id., Ex. C.) Plaintiff did not appear on September 5, and a
certificate of non-appearance was taken. (Id., Ex. F.) The parties were
thereafter unable to agree on whether the deposition should take place in-person
or remotely, and no alternative date has been agreed upon.
            On September 21, 2023, Defendant M.S.
Aerospace filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. Plaintiff
filed his opposition on October 5, 2023. Defendant filed its reply on October
11, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
“If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document … described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
            A motion to compel deposition must
be accompanied by a declaration demonstrating meet and confer or, when the
deponent fails to appear or produce documents, “by a declaration stating that
the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(b)(2).) The Court finds that Defendant has complied
with the meet and confer requirement. (See Giamela Decl. ¶¶ 8-11, Ex. D-G.)  
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Deposition
            It is undisputed that Defendant is
entitled to take Plaintiff’s deposition. The parties primarily dispute whether
the deposition should take place in-person or remotely. Defendant argues that an
in-person deposition is necessary due to the volume of exhibits involved. Plaintiff

argues
that the parties had previously agreed to a remote deposition. 
The agreement that Plaintiff refers to is
a Joint Discovery Plan from the arbitration, which states that “[t]he Parties
intend on taking the depositions remotely.” (Rand-Lewis Decl., Ex. A.) However,
the case has since been withdrawn from arbitration, and Plaintiff does not
explain how an arbitration discovery plan is binding on the instant action. Plaintiff
also does not dispute that the volume of exhibits warrants an in-person
deposition. Defendant has demonstrated good cause for an in-person deposition, and
Plaintiff has not rebutted that showing. Therefore, the deposition shall take
place in-person.  
II.
Documents
            The deposition notice also requested
Plaintiff to bring documents related to Plaintiff’s claims and damages.
(Giamela Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff objected to the document requests and then
responded that he “has already produced responsive documents.” (Ibid.) 
            Defendant’s motion seeks a supplemental
response to the document requests. However, Defendant did not propound RFPs
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. Rather, this was
a request for documents accompanying a deposition notice. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.220(a)(4).) Plaintiff responded to the deposition notice. Defendant provides
no authority for compelling a further response to a deposition notice. The
Court will simply order the deposition to proceed. Defendant also cites no
authority requiring a response to a deposition notice to comply with Section
2031.230 for written discovery.  
            Section 2025.450 authorizes a motion
to compel the production of documents described in a deposition notice if the
motion demonstrates good cause for the production. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450(a), (b).) However, Defendant’s motion does not discuss good cause or
request an order compelling the production of documents. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant M.S. Aerospace Inc.’s
motion to compel deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall appear for deposition
in-person. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial
justification.