 Case Number:  23SMCV03955    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03955




MOTION


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Jennifer
  Rozdzielski of JR Immigration Law




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Jennifer Rozdzielski of JR
Immigration Law, counsel for Defendant Jacob Deutsch
(“Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel, citing a breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship.  The motion
is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in litigation,
or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of harassing or
maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)        
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053.  The attorney
declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead of filing a consent
because:
 
Mr. Jacob Deutsch has failed to communicate or
respond to any correspondence or contacts made by Attorney Jennifer Rozdzielski
since prior to the case management conference held in August of 2024.  Attorney Jennifer Rozdzielski has no way to
represent him as a result of the completely [sic] breakdown of any and all
communication in the relationship. 
Further he has refused to comply with the requests by Attorney
Rozdzielski for documents in his case that are necessary.  Attorney Rozdzielski was last told in August
of 2024, new counsel was being retained but has not received any further
communication.  
 
(MC-052
at ¶ 2.)  As such, the Court finds that
the motion complies with the Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            However, Counsel has not filed any
proofs of service demonstrating compliance Rule 3.1362(d).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the hearing on the motion to be
relieved as counsel to January 28, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207 to
enable Counsel to serve the moving papers, as required under Rule 3.1362(d),
and file the proof(s) of service demonstrating compliance on or before January
21, 2025.  
 
            Counsel shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  December 4, 2024                                      ___________________________
                                                                              Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 