 Case Number:  22SMCV01860    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01860




MOTION


Motion
  for Attorneys’ Fees




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Morteza Farzadmehr, individually and as trustee of the Progressive Trust, and
  Shahla Farzadmehr Delijani




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Noshin Khobian



 
MOTION
 
On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff Noshin Khobian as Trustee of JNK Family
Trust (“Plaintiff”) filed a verified complaint against Defendants Morteza
Farzadmehr, both individually and as Trustee of Progressive Trust and Shahla
Farzadmehr Delijani (“Defendants”) alleging three causes of action for (1)
negligence; (2) nuisance; and (3) trespass related to property damage caused by
a Ficus tree that grew between the parties’ adjacent properties. 
 
On August 6, 2024, the Court granted summary judgment in Defendants’
favor, finding that Defendants met their initial burdens of production and
persuasion that the trunk of the Ficus tree sits entirely on Plaintiff’s
property and that none of the other trees on Defendants’ property caused or
contributed to the damage to Plaintiff’s property, and Plaintiff did not raise
any triable issues of material fact.
 
Defendants now move to recover $137,491.45 in attorneys’ fees and
reasonable expenses pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.420 based
on Plaintiff’s failure to admit that the Ficus tree was located on Plaintiff’s
property.  Plaintiff opposes the Motion
and Defendants reply.  
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request judicial notice of the following: 
 
Exhibit A: The Verified Complaint in this Action 
 
Exhibit B: Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application for Mandatory Injunction
 
Exhibit C: Minute Order dated March 14, 2023 
 
Exhibit D: Minute Order dated August 6, 2024
 
Exhibit E: Order dated August 22, 2024
 
Exhibit F: Judgment on Complaint after Granting Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment as to Complaint entered on August 22, 2024
 
Exhibit G: Stipulation and Order Regarding Ultimate Facts and Legal
Issues
 
Plaintiff requests judicial
notice of the following:
 
Exhibit 12: Defendants’ Notice
of Demurrer and Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Exhibit 13: Notice of Ruling
on Defendants’ Demurrer
 
Exhibit 14: Plaintiff’s Ex
Parte Application for Mandatory Injunction
 
Exhibit 15: Minute Order on
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application for Mandatory Injunction
 
Exhibit 16: Defendants’
Notices of Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because all of these Exhibits are part of the Court’s record for this
case, the Court may take judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence and filing of the requested Court records, and
the truth of any results reached, but not the truth of any hearsay allegations
contained therein.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.420 provides:
 
(a) If a party fails to admit the genuineness of any document or the
truth of any matter when requested to do so under this chapter, and if the
party requesting that admission thereafter proves the genuineness of that
document or the truth of that matter, the party requesting the admission may
move the court for an order requiring the party to whom the request was
directed to pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making that proof,
including reasonable attorney's fees.
 
(b) The court shall make this order unless it finds any of the
following:
 
(1) An objection to the request was sustained or a response to it was
waived under Section 2033.290.
 
(2) The admission sought was of no substantial importance.
 
(3) The party failing to make the admission had reasonable ground to
believe that that party would prevail on the matter.
 
(4) There was other good reason for the failure to admit.            
 
In Brooks v. American Broadcasting Co., the appellate court
outlined a non-exhaustive list of important factors to consider in determining
whether the party’s denial of an RFA was reasonable.  
 
“[I]f a party denies a request for admission (of substantial
importance) in circumstances where the party lacked personal knowledge but had
available sources of information and failed to make a reasonable investigation
to ascertain the facts, such failure will justify an award of expenses.”  (Brooks v.
American Broadcasting Co. (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 500, 510 (hereafter Brooks).)  
 
“The degree to which the party making the denial has attempted in good
faith to reach a reasonable resolution of the matters involved is also an
appropriate factor to be weighed. For example, in at least two federal cases
the parties making denials of requests for admission had offered to stipulate
to the matters requested under reasonable conditions, but the parties
propounding the requests had refused the proffered stipulations. In those
circumstances, it was later held that there had been good reasons for the
denials.”  (Brooks,
supra, 179 Cal.App.3d at p. 510.) 


 
“Sometimes a party justifiably denies a request for admission based
upon the information available at the time of the denial, but later learns of
additional facts or acquires information which would have called for the
request to be admitted if the information had been known at the time of the
denial. If such a party thereafter advises the party that propounded the
request for admission that the denial was in error or should be modified, a
court should consider this factor in assessing whether there were no good
reasons for the denial.”  (Brooks,
supra, 179 Cal.App.3d at p. 510.) 

 
“Finally, in considering this issue, a court may properly consider
whether at the time the denial was made the party making the denial held a
reasonably entertained good faith belief that the party would prevail on the
issue at trial.”  (Brooks, supra,
179 Cal.App.3d at p. 511.)
 
In Orange County Water Dist. v. The Arnold Engineering Co., the
appellate court further elaborated on what constitutes a good faith belief that
a party will prevail.
 
“A party's reasonable belief must be grounded in the evidence; it
cannot be based merely on ‘hope or a roll of the dice.’ ”  (Orange County Water Dist. v. The Arnold
Engineering Co. (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 96, 116 (hereafter Orange County).)  “It is also not enough for a party making the
denial to ‘hotly contest’ the issue; instead, there must be some reasonable
basis for contesting the issue in question before sanctions can be avoided.”  (Ibid.)  “Indeed, “the mere fact [that a party]
presented evidence at trial is not an automatic justification for denial of the
requests. Rather, the issue is whether, in light of that evidence, [the party]
could reasonably believe they would prevail.” 
(Ibid.)
 
“On the other hand, ‘[e]xpenses of proving disputed facts which an
opposing party denies in response to a request for admission are not
recoverable simply because the party promulgating the request prevails at
trial.’”  (Orange County, supra,
31 Cal.App.5th at p. 116 (quoting Brooks, supra, 179
Cal.App.3d at p. 513).)
 
In Stull v. Sparrow (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 860 and in Wimberly
v. Derby Cycle Corp. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 618, costs were not awarded
because the denying party conceded the issue prior to trial, obviating the need
to prove the issue at trial.  It did not
matter that the propounding party expended fees to prepare the issue for trial,
because the parties did not actually have to try the subject issue.
 
ANALYSIS
            
On January 4, 2023, Defendants propounded the following requests for
admission (“RFA”) on Plaintiff:
 
Request No. 1 – Admit that the FICUS TREE [refers to the
Ficus Benjamina tree described in paragraph 11 of YOUR COMPLAINT and which is
one of the basis for YOUR ACTION against DEFENDANTS] is on YOUR property.
 
Request No. 2 – Admit that the FICUS TREE YOU contend in
YOUR COMPLAINT has cracked YOUR border wall is on PLAINTIFF’S PROPERTY. 
 
Request No. 3 – Admit that the FICUS TREE YOU contend in
YOUR COMPLAINT has lifted the foundation of YOUR border wall is on PLAINTIFF’S
PROPERTY. 
 
Request No. 4 – Admit that the FICUS TREE YOU contend in
YOUR COMPLAINT has damaged [sic] the foundation of YOUR house is on PLAINTIFF’S
PROPERTY. 
 
Request No. 5 – Admit that the FICUS TREE is [sic]
encroaching on the DEFENDANTS’ PROPERTY. 
 
Request No. 9 – Admit that when YOU purchased
PLAINTIFF’S PROPERTY the trunk of the FICUS TREE was entirely on PLAINTIFF’S
PROPERTY.
 
Request No. 12 – Admit that DEFENDANTS have not
performed any acts that interfere with YOUR possessory interest in PLAINTIFF’S
PROPERTY. 
 
Request No. 13 – Admit that DEFENDANTS have not
performed any acts that deprive YOU of the reasonable use and enjoyment of
PLAINTIFF’S PROPERTY.
 
(Ex.
5 to Pugh Decl.)
 
In response to RFA No. 1, Plaintiff admitted in part and denied in
part, responding, “Part of the tree in [sic] the responding party’s property
while the other part is in the propounding party’s property.”  Plaintiff denied the rest of the RFAs
outlined above.  (Ex. 6 to Pugh Decl.)
 
Defendants subsequently prevailed on their Motion for Summary Judgment.  In so holding, the Court explained,
“Defendants have met their [initial burdens of] production and persuasion that
they owed no duty to maintain the tree or abate the nuisance, and that they did
not commit trespass, because the Ficus tree sits entirely on Plaintiff’s
property, except for the roots and branches that have encroached upon
Defendants’ property” that “Azarmy’s statement as set forth in paragraph 7 of
his declaration: “are partially located in each property’ is not competent
evidence” but “even if Azarmy’s statement is competent evidence, Plaintiff has
not satisfied her burden of creating a triable issue of material fact. That the
‘trunk and roots’ of the Ficus tree ‘are partially located in each property,
but the majority of it is on ‘Plaintiff’s property is consistent with
Defendants’ expert evidence that the trunk is located entirely on Plaintiff’s
property, and some of the roots and branches have encroached upon Defendants’
property.”  (Minute Order, Aug. 6, 2024.)
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s denials were not warranted when
made in late January/early February 2023, because in July 2022, Plaintiff
obtained a survey from expert Cyrus Azarmy (which Plaintiff submitted in
opposition to Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment), indicating that the
majority of the trunk and roots of the Ficus tree are located on Plaintiff’s
property.  (See Azarmy Decl. in support
of Opposition to MSJ.)
 
Further, Plaintiff obtained a survey in August 2022 confirming that
the center and bulk of the Ficus trunk was on Plaintiff’s property, next to a
brick plaster on Plaintiff’s property that was 1.43 feet from the property
line, and had grown around an iron fence on Plaintiff’s property and protruded
onto Defendants’ property.  (Ex. 1 to
Pugh Decl.)
 
After Plaintiff filed suit, Defendants also retained a surveyor who
confirmed that the trunk of the Ficus tree was on Plaintiff’s property, and
some buttresses and branches crossed the property line into Defendant’s
property.  (Ex. 2 to Pugh Decl.)
 
Defendants also retained an arborist who similarly confirmed the Ficus
tree was planted on Plaintiff’s property, and as it grew, some of its stems and
buttresses had encroached onto Defendants’ property over time.  (Ex. 3 to Pugh Decl.)
 
On August 28, 2024, the Parties stipulated that the Ficus tree was at
all times owned by Plaintiff and located on Plaintiff’s property.  (RJN Ex. G.)
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues she was justified in partially
admitting and partially denying RFA No. 1 because the diagram of the tree
Azarmy drew depicted the tree as primarily on Plaintiff’s property, but also
slightly on Defendants’ property.  
 
While the answer indicating the tree was partially on Plaintiff’s
property and partially on Defendants’ property was technically true when made,
by virtue of the roots and branches growing to encroach upon Defendants’
property, Plaintiff does not address her denials of the remaining RFAs
Defendants have identified.  
 
Further, the issue at the crux of Plaintiff’s lawsuit was that
Defendants were primarily responsible for the tree that grew between the
properties, and the resulting damage to Plaintiff’s property.  Plaintiff should have reasonably deduced, by
virtue of the surveys Plaintiff obtained prior to filing suit, that this was
not the case, by virtue of the vast majority of the tree being located on
Plaintiff’s side of the property line. 
As such, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that her denials of the RFAs
were made in good faith based on the information available to Plaintiff at the
time they were made.  
 
Plaintiff also argues that the attorneys’ fees requested by William
Steckbaur should be reduced by $38,896, for excessive hours billed; billing for
work performed on behalf of the Farzadmehrs as cross-complainants as opposed to
defendants; billing related to Defendants’ unsuccessful demurrer and opposition
to Plaintiff’s temporary restraining order; and ex parte application and motion
to withdraw as counsel.
 
Plaintiff also argues that the attorneys’ fees requested by Saul Reiss
and Fay Pugh should be reduced by $40,222 for excessive billing rates;
excessive billing hours; work performed on behalf of the Farzadmehrs as
cross-complainants as opposed to defendants; unidentified calls, conversations
with “CITY,” and unidentified meet and confers.
 
Defendants argue in reply that because Plaintiff knew that the Ficus
tree was, for the most part, on Plaintiff’s own property when Plaintiff filed
the verified complaint, Defendants should be entitled to all fees they incurred
litigating this matter.
 
Section 2033.420 provides that where a party unreasonably denies an
RFA, the other party is entitled to recover its “reasonable expenses incurred
in making that proof, including reasonable attorney's fees.”  Thus, the Court agrees that fees incurred researching/drafting
the demurrer, and efforts to withdraw as counsel were not reasonably incurred
to factually prove that the Ficus tree was located on Plaintiff’s property.  Further, because Defendants prevailed in
their motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s complaint, the Court
similarly agrees that fees incurred researching/preparing the Defendants’ cross-complaint
were not reasonably incurred pursuant to Section 2033.420.
 
However, the fees incurred successfully opposing Plaintiff’s
application for an injunction were related to Defendants’ efforts to preserve
evidence to prove the actual location of the tree in relation to the boundary
line, and are therefore recoverable. 
 
Upon review of the highlighted entries to William Steckbauer’s
requested time, the Court does not find any hours were otherwise excessively
billed.
 
With regard to Saul Reiss and Fay Pugh’s time, although Reiss charges
$900 per hour and Pugh charges $550 per hour, declarations demonstrate that
Reiss has 52 years’ experience practicing litigation in California (Reiss Decl.
¶ 3), Pugh has 25 years of litigation experience in California (Pugh Decl. ¶
12) and that the rates reflect the amounts actually charged to the client.  Therefore, the Court does not find that the
requested rates are unreasonable.
 
Similarly, the Court finds that 2.58 and 2.38 hours spent by Pugh and
Reiss respectively on “Zoom call” on 2/1/2024 and 2 hours Reiss spent on “Zoom
call” on 5/31/24, without more information, appears excessive.  
 
Otherwise, the Court does not find any of the highlighted entries to
be excessive.  In particular, the Court
does not find communications and discovery involving the City, which presumably
refers to the City of Beverly Hills where the property is located, to be
unreasonable.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing
reasons, the Court grants in part and denies in part Defendants’ motion for
attorneys’ fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.420.  Defendants are generally entitled to
attorneys’ fees pursuant to Section 2033.420, in an amount that shall be
reduced by the entries identified by the Court. 
 
            Specifically, the
Court finds that Defendants may not recover fees incurred on the following:
 
(1)  
researching/drafting the demurrer
(2)  
efforts to withdraw as counsel
(3)  
researching/preparing Defendants’ cross-complaint
(4)  
the 2.58 and 2.38 hours Pugh and Reiss spent, respectively, on
“Zoom call” on 2/1/2024
(5)  
the 2 hours Reiss spent on “Zoom call” on 5/31/24
 
            Defendants shall
file and serve a proposed Order in conformance with the Court’s ruling on or
before December 18, 2024.  Thereafter,
Plaintiff may file and serve any objections to the proposed Order on or before December
31, 2024.
 
            Defendants shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:  December 4, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court