 Case Number:  24SMCP00544    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCP00544




MOTION


Petition to Compel Compliance with Foreign Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Petitioner Sam Karawia




OPPOSING PARTIES


Respondent Caitlin Hart



 
BACKGROUND
 
            The underlying lawsuit, pending
before the Supreme Court of the State of New York in the County of Kings, Index
No. 533054/2023, captioned Sam Karawia v. Michael Bonini, stems from a
dispute between Plaintiff Sam Karawia (“Petitioner”) and his son-in-law, Defendant
Michael Bonini (“Bonini”).  The
underlying verified complaint alleges Bonini defrauded Petitioner in a
cryptocurrency investing scheme.  (Ex. 2
to Kealey Decl. at Schedule A, Ex. 1.)
 
            It was revealed in discovery that
Respondent Caitlin Hart (“Respondent”) was engaged in an extramarital affair
with Bonini while Bonini was married to Petitioner’s daughter, and Petitioner
believes Bonini absconded with Petitioner’s money to California, where Bonini
now resides and shares a child with Respondent. 
(Kealey Decl. ¶ 4.)  Petitioner
also contends Respondent had access to one of Bonini’s cryptocurrency exchange
accounts and traded cryptocurrency on his behalf.  (Kealey Decl. ¶ 5.)  They also co-manage a Texas limited liability
company, Dolce Far Niente LLC.  (Kealey
Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
            As a result, Petitioner propounded a
subpoena on Respondent in Los Angeles County, pertaining to the New York
action.  (Kealey Decl. ¶¶  8-9 and Exs. 2-3.)  Although Respondent communicated with counsel
for Petitioner, Respondent did not formally object or otherwise respond to the
subpoena.  (Kealey Decl. ¶¶ 10-14.)
 
            Petitioner has now filed the instant
petition to compel Respondent’s compliance with the foreign subpoena and for
monetary sanctions.  Respondent opposes the
petition and Petitioner replies.
 
ANALYSIS    
 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2029.100 et seq. pertain to
discovery in California pertaining to actions pending outside California.  Section 2029.600, subdivision (a) provides:  “If a dispute arises relating to discovery
under this article, any request for a protective order or to enforce, quash, or
modify a subpoena, or for other relief may be filed in the superior court in
the county in which discovery is to be conducted and, if so filed, shall comply
with the applicable rules or statutes of this state.”  
 
Respondent contends that the subpoena is procedurally defective
because Petitioner did not personally serve it on her and it requires
attendance at a deposition in New York. 
Petitioner argues that Respondent waived any objection to the subpoena
by failing to respond to it.
 
While the Court agrees that a party served with a subpoena waives any
objections to it by failing to timely respond, the Court cannot enforce a
subpoena that is defective on its face.
 
Regarding proof of personal service, Code of Civil Procedure section
2029.400 provides, “A subpoena issued under this article shall be personally
served in compliance with the law of this state, including, without limitation,
Section 1985.”  
 
Here, Petitioner has provided a notarized “affidavit of service”
indicating that Allan Bailey personally served the subpoena on Respondent in
Los Angeles on July 1, 2024.  (Ex. 3 to
Kealey Decl.)  The notary declares under
penalty of perjury that the declarant proved their identity and acknowledged that
they executed the statement in an authorized capacity.  
 
However, Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5 provides, “Whenever,
under any law of this state or under any rule, regulation, order or requirement
made pursuant to the law of this state, any matter is required or permitted to
be supported, evidenced, established, or proved by the sworn statement,
declaration, verification, certificate, oath, or affidavit, in writing of the
person making the same (other than a deposition, or oath of office, or an oath
required to be taken before a specified official other than a notary public),
such matter may with like force and effect be supported, evidenced, established
or proved by the unsworn statement, declaration, verification, or certificate,
in writing of such person which recites that it is certified or declared by him
or her to be true under penalty of perjury […]” 

 
The notary’s statement does not indicate that Bailey swore the truth
of the statement to her under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of
California.
 
Moreover, the subpoena, on its face, requires Respondent’s attendance
at a deposition in New York.  Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.250 requires, “Unless the court orders otherwise
under Section 2025.260, the deposition of a natural person, whether or not a
party to the action, shall be taken at a place that is, at the option of the
party giving notice of the deposition, either within 75 miles of the deponent's
residence, or within the county where the action is pending and within 150
miles of the deponent's residence.”  New
York is unquestionably more than 150 miles from Respondent’s residence.
 
Therefore, the Court cannot enforce compliance with a subpoena that is
defective on its face.   
 
Further, because the Court finds the subpoena to be defective, it
finds that Respondent was substantially justified in not responding to it, and
that monetary sanctions are not warranted.
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Finding the subpoena at issue to be
defective on its face, the Court denies the Petition to Compel Compliance and
for Sanctions in its entirety without prejudice.  
 
            Petitioner shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
 
DATED: 
December 4, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 