 Case Number:  24STCV04204    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



KATHERINE KELLER, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ROBERT H. BISNO, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV04204
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 21, 2025
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendants Robert H. Bisno (“Robert Bisno”); Jeanette Ann
Bisno (“Jeanette Bisno”); Law Office of Robert H. Bisno (“Law Office”); Bisno
Management Company, LLC (“Bisno Management”); Bisno Development Enterprise, LLC
(“Bisno Development”); The Bisno Family Limited Partnership (“Bisno Family”);
and Bisno Real Estate Group, LLC (“Bisno Real Estate”) (collectively, “the
Bisno Parties”) move for reconsideration of their special motion under Code of
Civil Procedure, section 425.16 to strike the Complaint filed by Plaintiff
Katherine Keller (“Keller”).
 
Keller moves for sanctions in the amount of $4,980.00 against
the Robert Bisno, individually and in his capacity as counsel for the other
Bisno Parties, on the basis that the motion for reconsideration is frivolous.
 
The Court DENIES the Bisno Parties’ motion for
reconsideration.
 
The Court GRANTS Keller’s motion for sanctions in the amount
of $4,980.00 against Robert Bisno, in his capacity as counsel for the Bisno
Parties. Robert Bisno shall pay this amount to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30
days of this order.
 
 
Background
 
Factual Background
 
This is a malicious prosecution action. The following facts
are taken from the parties’ separate statements. For the purposes of the
anti-SLAPP motion, the Court resolves disputes of fact in Keller’s favor. For
the purposes of the demurrer, the Court accepts the allegations of the
Complaint as true.
 
In reviewing the parties’ separate statements, the Court
notes that the Bisno Parties improperly filed their reply separate statement
dated October 11, 2014 using Keller’s caption page – including the name of Keller’s
attorney and law firm, and the title of Keller’s separate statement. The Court
admonishes Defendant Robert Bisno, who represents himself as well as the other
Bisno Parties, that it is inappropriate to make a filing under a caption page
for an opposing party.
 
This case arises out of two underlying actions – one civil,
and one criminal.
 
On December 12, 2018, Defendant Jeanette Bisno battered Keller
at a parking garage in Beverly Hills, California (the “Parking Lot Incident”).
(Keller’s Undisputed Fact (“UF”) 1.) The Parking Lot Incident was recorded on
video, which shows Jeanette Bisno barricading Keller’s vehicle in with her own
vehicle and repeatedly shoving Keller. (UF 47, 50.)
 
No Defendants other than Jeanette Bisno were involved in the
Parking Lot Incident. (Defendants’ Response to Undisputed Fact (“RUF”) 1.)
 
On December 20, 2018, Defendant Robert Bisno, acting as
Jeanette Bisno’s attorney, filed a civil complaint in Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 18STCV09206 (the “Underlying Civil Case”) against 100 Doe
defendants only. (UF 2.) The complaint arose out of the Parking Lot Incident
and raised claims for (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress (“IIED”); (4) false imprisonment; and (5) false arrest.
 
On March 13, 2019, Jeanette Bisno was arraigned on one count
of criminal battery (Pen. Code, § 242) in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 9AR31364
(the “Underlying Criminal Case”). (UF 3.) Robert Bisno, who is Jeanette Bisno’s
husband, appeared as her attorney at the arraignment. (UF 4.)
 
            As
the criminal defense attorney in the Underlying Criminal Case, Robert Bisno
obtained discovery which included Keller’s name and contact information. (UF
5.) Keller contends that Robert Bisno and Jeanette Bisno then used this
information to assist in the prosecution of the Underlying Civil Case. (UF 6.)
On March 14, 2019, Robert Bisno, acting as Jeanette Bisno’s attorney, amended
the complaint in the Underlying Civil Case to name Keller as a defendant. (UF
7.)
 
Keller contends that the Bisno Parties then engaged in a pattern
of harassment of Keller which included calls to Keller’s job threatening to punish
and financially harm Keller for speaking and continuing to speak to law enforcement
with regard to the Underlying Criminal Case. (UF 8.) Keller contends that she
feared for her safety and her ability to continue to participate in the
criminal trial. (UF 9.)
 
On October 29, 2019, Jeanette Bisno pleaded no contest in
the Underlying Criminal Case and was found guilty of criminal battery upon Keller.
(UF 10.) Jeanette Bisno admitted under penalty of perjury that Keller never
touched Jeanette Bisno. (UF 11.)
 
Defendants continued to prosecute the Underlying Civil Case.
(UF 12.)
 
On December 2, 2020, the court in the Underlying Criminal
Case addressed Jeanette Bisno’s actions on the record as follows: “It’s
outrageous. …. Ms. Bisno is using the legal mechanism to further harass [Keller].
….. I think the law does not account for situations like this, where you have a
very sophisticated defendant who uses the legal system as a bully, as a
hammer.” (UF 13; see Keller Decl. ¶ 37, Ex. I.)
 
On December 4, 2020, Jeanette Bisno voluntarily dismissed
her claims against Keller in the Underlying Civil Case.
 
In the Underlying Civil Case, Keller proceeded to trial on a
cross-complaint against Jeanette Bisno. (UF 16.) The cross-complaint raised
claims for (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) IIED; (4) violation of the Bane Act,
Civil Code, section 52.1; and (5) malicious prosecution. (Bisno Parties’
Request for Judicial Notice at p. 23, Item 3.)
 
Prior to trial, Robert Bisno, acting as Jeanette Bisno’s
attorney, successfully argued in a series of motions in limine that Keller’s
Bane Act and malicious prosecution claims were premature. (UF 17.) The court in
the Underlying Civil Case ruled that the malicious prosecution claim was
premature and that the Bane Act did not apply to the Parking Lot Incident. (UF
18-19.) Jeanette Bisno waived the statute of limitations as to the Bane Act.
(UF 17, Keller Decl., Ex. L.) Neither the malicious prosecution claim, nor the
Bane Act claim were litigated at trial in the Underlying Civil Case. (UF 20.) 
 
On August 21, 2023, judgment was entered for Keller in the Underlying
Civil Case for the sum of $193,255.00. (UF 21.)
 
Plaintiff filed an appeal of the motions in limine.
 
On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of abandonment
of her appeal of the motions in limine in the Underlying Civil Case.
 
Procedural History
 
Keller filed this action against the Bisno Parties on
February 20, 2024, raising claims for (1) malicious prosecution, and (2)
violation of the Bane Act. Keller subsequently named a number of additional
corporate defendants via Doe amendments. 
 
Keller alleges in her first claim that Defendants
maliciously prosecuted the Underlying Civil Case against her. Keller alleges in
her second claim that Robert Bisno disclosed the personal identifying
information of Keller, a victim and witness in the Underlying Criminal Case, to
Jeanette Bisno. Keller alleges that the Bisno Parties used that information not
only to file the Underlying Civil Case, but to intimidate Keller and cause her
to believe that the Bisno Parties would commit violence against her if she
continued to participate in the criminal case.
 
On April 12, 2024, Keller served Robert, Jeanette, Bisno
Management, Bisno Development, and Bisno Real Estate via personal service.
 
On May 6, 2024, Bisno Management, Bisno Development, and
Bisno Real Estate (collectively, the “Anti-SLAPP Entities”) filed an anti-SLAPP
motion (the “First Anti-SLAPP”), noticing the hearing for May 28, 2024. Keller
filed an opposition on May 9, 2024 arguing, inter alia, that the motion did not
provide an adequate notice period.
 
On May 17, 2024, default was entered against Law Office and
Bisno Family.
 
On May 20, 2024, the Anti-SLAPP Entities withdrew the First
Anti-SLAPP, stating that they would re-file it with an adequate notice period.
 
On May 21, 2024, default was entered against Robert, Bisno
Management, Bisno Development, and Bisno Real Estate.
 
On May 23, 2024, Robert, Bisno Management, Bisno
Development, and Bisno Real Estate filed a Notice of Intent to File Anti-SLAPP
Motion.
 
On May 28, 2024, the Anti-SLAPP Entities filed the pending
anti-SLAPP motion (the “Second Anti-SLAPP”).
 
On May 31, 2024, default was entered against Jeanette.
 
On June 3, 2024, Robert and Jeanette filed a notice of
joinder to Second Anti-SLAPP.
 
On July 30, 2024, the Court denied the Second Anti-SLAPP on
the basis that all of the moving parties had been defaulted.
 
On September 17, 2024, the Court granted the Bisno Parties’
motion for relief from default.
 
On September 18, 2024, the Bisno Parties filed a second
anti-SLAPP motion, which is the subject of this motion for reconsideration. On
October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 11, 2024, the Bisno
Parties filed a reply.
 
On October 22, 2024, the Court held a hearing on the
anti-SLAPP motion and posted a tentative ruling in advance of the hearing. The
Court continued the hearing and ordered additional briefing on the
applicability of the anti-SLAPP motion to Plaintiff’s Bane Act claim and
whether Plaintiff’s then-pending appeal of the motions in limine was a bar to
this case. The Bisno Parties filed a supplemental brief. Plaintiff filed a
supplemental opposition. The Bisno parties filed a supplemental reply.
 
On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of abandonment
of her appeal of the motions of limine in the Underlying Civil Case.
 
On October 31, while the anti-SLAPP motion was still
pending, the Bisno Parties filed this motion for reconsideration of the
anti-SLAPP motion. The notice of motion for the motion of reconsideration
states, incorrectly, that the Court issued an order on October 22, 2024 denying
the anti-SLAPP motion and requests reconsideration of that nonexistent order.
Keller has filed an opposition and the Bisno Parties have filed a reply.
 
On November 1, 2024, Keller served the Bisno Parties with
the instant motion for sanctions, providing safe harbor period of greater than
21 days.
 
On December 5, 2024, Keller filed the instant motion for
sanctions. The Bisno Parties filed an opposition and Keller filed a reply.
 
On December 12, 2024, the Court held a second hearing on the
anti-SLAPP motion. On the same day, the Court issued a final order denying the
anti-SLAPP motion.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the Bisno Parties’ request for judicial
notice and takes notice of the submitted court records.
 
Legal Standard
 
Within ten days of service of an order, a party may move for
reconsideration based on new facts, circumstances, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008, subd. (a); see also Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th
1338, 1342.) The moving party shall state by affidavit what application was
made before, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts
or circumstances are claimed to be shown. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd .(a).)
“[T]he party seeking reconsideration must provide not only new evidence but
also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an
earlier time.”  (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457.) The
legislative intent was to restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances
where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not previously
considered and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) 
 
“If those requirements have been met to the satisfaction of
the court but the court is not persuaded the earlier ruling was erroneous, the
proper course is to grant reconsideration and to reaffirm the earlier ruling.”
(Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.)
 
“If a court at any time determines that there has been a
change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
Motion for Reconsideration
 
As an initial matter, the Bisno Parties’ motion for
reconsideration is procedurally improper. The motion for reconsideration was
filed before any final order was issued on the anti-SLAPP motion, and
apparently seeks reconsideration of the October 22, 2024 tentative. There was
thus no court order to reconsider at the time that the motion was filed.
Because the motion was not filed within 10 days of the service of any order for
which it seeks reconsideration, the Court denies the motion for
reconsideration.
 
The Court further denies the motion for reconsideration on
the grounds that it is not meritorious.
 
The Bisno Parties’ argument for reconsideration is as
follows. In the Underlying Civil Case, Plaintiff had appealed the motion in
limine decisions which prevented her from raising the malicious prosecution and
Bane Act claims in that case. On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of
abandonment of the appeal. The Bisno Parties argued in their anti-SLAPP motion
that the motion in limine decisions gave rise to collateral estoppel as to
Plaintiff’s present malicious prosecution and Bane Act claims. The Bisno
Parties now argue that Plaintiff’s abandonment of the appeal is a new fact that
warrants reconsideration of the issue of probability of success on the merits
in the anti-SLAPP motion.
 
The problem with this argument is that the motion in limine
rulings were not, and could not have been, preclusive as to Plaintiff’s present
claims.
 
“As generally understood, [t]he doctrine of res judicata
gives certain conclusive effect to a former judgment in subsequent litigation
involving the same controversy.’ The doctrine has a double aspect. In its
primary aspect, commonly known as claim preclusion, it operates as a bar to the
maintenance of a second suit between the same parties on the same cause of
action. In its secondary aspect, commonly known as collateral estoppel, [t]he
prior judgment ... operates in a second suit ... based on a different cause of
action ... as an estoppel or conclusive adjudication as to such issues in the
second action as were actually litigated and determined in the first action.” (Boeken
v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797 [internal citations
and quotation marks omitted.)
 
“Claim preclusion, the primary aspect of res judicata, acts
to bar claims that were, or should have been, advanced in a previous suit
involving the same parties.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61
Cal.4th 813, 824 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) “Claim
preclusion arises if a second suit involves: (1) the same cause of action (2)
between the same parties (3) after a final judgment on the merits in the first
suit.” (Ibid.) “To determine whether two proceedings involve identical
causes of action for purposes of claim preclusion, California courts have
consistently applied the ‘primary rights’ theory.” (Boeken v. Philip Morris
USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) “When two actions involving the same parties seek compensation for
the same harm, they generally involve the same primary right.” (Id. at
798.) A dismissal ordered by a court constitutes a final judgment. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 581d.)
 
“Issue preclusion differs from claim preclusion in two ways.
First, issue preclusion does not bar entire causes of action. Instead, it
prevents relitigation of previously decided issues. Second, unlike claim
preclusion, issue preclusion can be raised by one who was not a party or privy
in the first suit.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber, supra, 61
Cal.4th at p. 824.) “In summary, issue preclusion applies: (1) after final
adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily
decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the
first suit or one in privity with that party.” (Id. at p. 825.)
 
As the Court explained in both its October 22, 2024
tentative and its December 12, 2024 final ruling on the anti-SLAPP motion, the
Underlying Civil Case was not, and could not have been, preclusive as to
Plaintiff’s malicious prosecution or Bane Act claims. The court there found
that Keller’s assertion of the malicious prosecution claim was premature
because the litigation that was the subject of the claim had not yet
terminated. In other words, the Court found that (1) Keller could not bring the
malicious prosecution yet, in the Underlying Civil Case, and (2) Keller
would be able to bring the malicious prosecution claim after the termination
of the Underlying Civil Case. 
 
The same is true for Plaintiff’s present Bane Act claim,
which arises out of her malicious prosecution claim. Plaintiff’s Bane Act claim
in the Underlying Civil Act pertained only to the Parking Lot Incident.
Plaintiff’s Bane Act claim here pertains only to the Bisno Parties’
conduct after the Parking Lot Incident, up to and including their
prosecution of the Underlying Civil Case against Plaintiff. 
 
All of this is to say that Plaintiff’s present claims were
not, and should not have been, litigated to a final decision on the
merits in the Underlying Civil Case. Because a final decision on the merits of
these claims could not have been proper in the Underlying Civil Case, her
appeal in that case could not properly result in a final decision on the merits
of these claims either.
 
The Court therefore denies the motion for reconsideration.
 
Motion for Sanctions
 
An attorney or party who presents a pleading, motion or
similar paper to the court makes an implied “certification” as to its legal and
factual merit and is subject to sanctions for violation of this certification.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7; Murphy v. Yale Materials Handling Corp.
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 619, 623.)  
 
“If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond,
the court determines that subdivision (b) has been violated, the court may,
subject to the conditions stated below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the
attorneys, law firms, or parties that have violated subdivision (b) or are
responsible for the violation. In determining what sanctions, if any, should be
ordered, the court shall consider whether a party seeking sanctions has
exercised due diligence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (c).)
 
Section 128.7 includes a “safe harbor” provision, requiring
that the party seeking sanctions file the motion 21 days prior to filing it, to
give the responding party a chance to withdraw the challenged paper.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (c)(1).)
Keller appears to have complied with this safe harbor provision by serving the
motion for sanctions on November 1, 2024 and not filing it until December 2024.
 
A trial court has may impose sanctions if it concludes a
pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit,
either legally or factually. (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175,
189.) A claim is factually frivolous if it is “not well grounded in fact” and
it is legally frivolous if it is “not warranted by existing law or a good faith
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.” (Peake
v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 440.) 
 
Here, the motion for reconsideration was undisputably
without merit. It was filed before a final order to reconsider was issued.
Furthermore, its substantive basis was meritless because the Underlying Civil
Case could not have resulted in a final judgment on the merits of Plaintiff’s
present claims – as explained by the court in the Underlying Civil Case and by
the Court here, now on several occasions.
 
Robert Bisno argues that Keller’s motion for sanctions is
procedurally improper because it was filed before any hearing on the motion for
reconsideration. Robert Bisno does not cite any authority in support of this
proposition, nor is the Court aware of any.
 
The Court concludes that sanctions are appropriate.
 
Keller requests an hourly rate of $600.00 for Willoughby.
(Willoughby Decl. ¶ 13.) The Court finds this rate to be reasonable.
 
Keller requests 8.3 hours for attorney Anthony Willoughby II
in connection with the motion for reconsideration and the motion for sanctions.
(Willoughby Decl. ¶¶ 7-12.) The Court finds that this time expenditure is
reasonable.
 
The Court grants a total of $4,980.00 in attorney’s fees
against Robert Bisno, both personally and in his capacity as counsel for the
other Bisno Parties.
 
 