 Case Number:  24STCV08594    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ ANTHONY J SPARANO, Plaintiff(s), vs. CASEY'S CARS, INC., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV08594 Hearing Date: November 13, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Anthony J. Sparano (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Casey's Cars, Inc. (“Casey’s Cars”), et al. pertaining to the purchase of a 2007 Porsche 911 Carrera. On August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for trial preference. On October 29, 2024, Cross-Complainant Hudson Insurance Company (“Hudson”) filed an opposition to the motion. On November 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  II. LEGAL STANDARD “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 36 (a).)  III. DISCUSSION Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 36 (a), the Court shall grant the motion upon finding that Plaintiff is over 70 years of age, that he has a substantial interest in this action, and that his health is such that trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing him interest in the litigation. Plaintiff declares as follows. Plaintiff was born on August 15, 1944 (Sparano Decl. ¶ 2), which makes him eighty years of age to date. Plaintiff is currently experiencing age-related medical issues, including severe arthritis, a heart condition, and other age-related common conditions such as chronic pain. (Id. ¶ 3.) On August 6, 2024, multiple medical professionals advised him that the risks of his conditions of arthritis, heart condition, and chronic pain will likely continue to increase with age. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff avers his energy levels, well-being, and ability to testify and participate in litigation will decline as he continues to age. (Id. ¶ 12.)  Given that this matter is Plaintiff’s action such that he naturally has a substantial interest in the action, and Plaintiff has provided a declaration of his age and ailments, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s health is such that trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing his interest in this litigation.  Plaintiff requests the Court set a trial date within 120 days of granting the motion. However, the matter is currently stayed pending arbitration. (Min. Order, Nov. 8, 2024.) Pursuant to the discussion held at motion to compel arbitration hearing, the purpose of this Court ruling upon the motion presently is in anticipation of setting trial for a date after arbitration has concluded. No arbitration date has yet been established. As such, the Court will defer setting the trial date and make that determination at the same time as the Status Conference Re: Arbitration currently set for May 9, 2025. Because trial will not be set until at least after May 2025, the grounds for Hudson’s arguments against granting the motion pertaining to hearings set to be heard in 2024 and a pending appeal are irrelevant. Those matters will be resolved prior to the setting of any trial date.  IV. DISCUSSION Plaintiff Anthony J. Sparano’s motion for trial preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36 (a) is GRANTED. The Court sets an OSC Re: Preference Trial Setting for May 9, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.   Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: November 12, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 