  Case Number:  24STCV04748    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  34 The Motion for Preliminary Injunction is DENIED.
 
Background    
 
Plaintiffs Daniella Fiallos and
Caesar Hernandez (“Daniella” and “Caesar” and collectively, the “Plaintiffs”)
alleges as follows: 
 
Based on encouragement
from Defendant Theresa Fiallos (“Theresa” or “Defendant”), in early 2017,
Plaintiffs agreed to sell their home in Palmdale and purchase and move into
7530 Brighton Avenue, Los Angeles, CA (“Subject Property”). As the Subject
Property is a duplex, the plan was to live in one unit and rent out the other.
The purchase price for the Subject Property was $387,500. Defendant told
Plaintiffs she was giving them a loan of $500,000 and represented to her
sister, Paquita Engle-Fiallos, that the Subject Property was to be a gift she
was leaving Plaintiffs. The understanding between Defendant and Plaintiffs was
that the loan was only required to be paid back interest free upon the sale of
the Subject Property. No deadline for the sale of the property was set.
Plaintiffs never received $500,000 and are only aware of $387,500 being wired
into escrow to closed the deal on the Subject Property. 
 
On or about January 23,
2017, a Grant Deed was recorded granting Plaintiffs the Subject Property as
tenants in common each as to an undivided 50% interest. The vacant unit at the
Subject Property remained vacant as ordered by Defendant.  On or about October 27, 2017, a Deed of Trust
was recorded with Defendant’s company, WEBO, LLC, as the beneficiary (“2017
Deed of Trust”).  The 2017 Deed of Trust
does not have a promissory note and does not specify the amount of the
promissory note. 
 
Some years after their
move into Subject Property, Plaintiffs moved their residence to 4203 W 141st
Street, Hawthorne, California 90250 (“Hawthorne Property”).  In September 2023, relations with Defendant
began to fall apart.  While Plaintiffs
were away, Defendant wrongfully ejected Plaintiffs from the Subject Property,
removed all of their personal belongings from the property, changed the locks,
and installed her own tenants for financial gain. All of Plaintiffs’ belongings
were wrongfully dumped at the Hawthorne Property without their consent. 
 
Plaintiffs decided it
was time to begin severing their economic ties to Defendant and listed Subject
Property for sale. They listed the Subject Property for sale on October 1,
2023. On or about October 24, 2022, Plaintiffs received an all-cash offer to purchase
Subject Property for $1.35 million. Defendant refused to accept the offer as
the broker of the deal, stopping Plaintiff from being able to pay back any loan
owed to Defendant. Defendant would continue to show up to Plaintiffs’ home
unannounced and verbally harass them with name calling and threats to contact
Child Protective Services. This harassment continued for months. 
 
On or about September
21, 2023, a Deed of Trust was recorded with Chicago Title Co. as trustee and
Defendant, trustee of the Fiallos Trust Dated November 10, 1995, as beneficiary
(“2023 Deed of Trust”). Based on Defendant’s violent history, consistent threats,
and concern about the safety of their family, Plaintiffs signed the 2023 Deed
of Trust. On or about November 30, 2023, the police were called to the
Hawthorne Property over a dispute between Defendant and Plaintiff. Defendant
was verbally harassing Plaintiffs, calling them a number of names, and
threatened to call Child Protective Services. On December 1, 2023, the trustee
under the 2017 Deed of Trust was substituted to S.B.S. Trust Deed Network. A
Notice of Default and Election to Sell is then recorded as to the 2017 Deed of
Trust for $706,988.22. On the same day, the trustee under the 2023 Deed of
Trust is substituted to S.B.S. Trust Deed Network. A Notice of Default and
Election to Sell is then also recorded on December 1, 2023 as to the 2023 Deed
of Trust for $726,365.53. 
 
On February 26, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendant,
individually and as Trustee of Fiallos Trust Dated November 10, 1995, and WEBO,
LLC for:
 
1.              
Quiet
Title
2.              
Breach
of Contract
3.              
Declaratory
Relief
4.              
Wrongful
Eviction
5.              
Usury
6.              
Identity
Theft
7.              
Cancellation
of Instrument
8.              
Breach
of Contract
9.              
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
10.           
Interference
for Economic Advantage
11.           
Fraud
12.           
Ejectment
 
A Case
Management Conference is set for September 24, 2024. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act. It may be granted by the court in which the
action is brought, or by a judge thereof; and when granted by a judge, it may
be enforced as an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 525.) “[A]n
injunction may be more completely defined as a writ or order commencing a
person either to perform or to refrain from performing a particular act.” (McDowell v. Watson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
1155, 1160.) 
 
“In determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction,
the trial court considers who related factors: (1) the likelihood that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim
harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as
compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants
a preliminary injunction.” (14859
Moorpark Homeowner’s Ass’n v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.)
“The trial court’s determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the
potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4
Cal.4th 668, 678.) “Generally, weighing these factors lies within
the broad discretion of the superior court.” (County of Kern v. T.C.E.F., Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
301, 315.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs seek to enjoin Defendant, and any and all persons
acting in concert with them, including but not limited to their agents,
employees, and persons acting with them or on their behalf, from foreclosing,
attempting to foreclose, selling, attempting to sell, transferring ownership or
further encumbering the Subject Property. (See Motion for Preliminary
Injunction, at p. 2.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice is Granted as to
Exhibits A, D, G, J, K, L, M, KK, and PP.
 
Merits 
 
Likelihood of Prevailing on the Merits 
 
Plaintiffs have proffered the following evidence: 
Plaintiffs have three
children together. They are one of two current owners of the Subject
Property  They received an undivided 50%
interest in the Property in January of 2017. 
 
Defendant is Plaintiff
Daniella’s aunt.  Defendant previously
informed Daniella me that she is the Trustee of Fiallos Trust Dated November
10, 1995, and the owner WEBO, LLC. In 2013, Daniella asked Paquita Engle-Fiallos,
who is a real estate agent, to help find a house that fit the budget.
Plaintiffs purchased a Palmdale property for $137,000 in February 2014. Near
the end of 2016, Defendant presented Plaintiffs with a proposal to purchase an
income property in the City of Los Angeles – the Subject Property. Defendant
said she would loan Plaintiffs the money for the Subject Property. Defendant
told Plaintiffs to sell the Palmdale home and use the proceeds from that sale
as our contribution to the purchase of the Subject Property. Defendant told Daniella
she would loan us the money interest free and Plaintiffs could pay her back if,
and when, they sold the Subject Property. Plaintiffs accepted Defendant’s
proposal for the loan to purchase the Subject Property and decided to sell the
Palmdale property. 
 
Plaintiffs made an offer
to purchase the Subject Property for $387,500.00 and it was accepted the same
day by the sellers, Gary Carbo and Troy Carbo. Daniella was provided a
formatted document with blank spaces, some of which had already been filled in,
titled “Residential Income Property Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow
Instructions” (the “Purchase Agreement”). She understood the Purchase Agreement
to be the formal contract for the sale and purchase of the Property. Plaintiffs
initialed each page of the Purchase Agreement and executed the Purchase
Agreement on January 5, 2017. Defendant informed Daniella that she wired
$387,500 into escrow to finalize the sale and convey title of the Subject Property
to Plaintiffs.
 
Around the time Plaintiffs
opened escrow on the Property, Defendant informed Daniella that the loan she
was providing would not be just the purchase price of $387,500 but would also
include $112,500 to make improvements to the property. Since January 1, 2016,
other than the $387,500 to purchase the Subject Property, Defendant never
provided the additional $112,500. While escrow was pending on the Subject Property,
Daniella was provided a document by Jose Luis Cazares, who stated he was the
real estate agent representing the sellers, of a quote from a general
contractor for proposed construction work to be done on the Property (the
“Quote”). The Quote also contained signatures in designated spaces that had the
names of the sellers, Gary Carbo and Troy Carbo, and in a space containing the name
“Timothy Campbell.” When Plaintiffs met the sellers, Gary Carbo stated that the
work listed in the Quote had been done on the Subject Property and Mr. Carbo
also stated to me that the foundation of the Property had been recently
repaired to bring it up to code. 
 
Approximately two (2)
days after the close of escrow on the Subject Property, Defendant handed me a
blank document titled “Deed of Trust” and requested that Plaintiffs sign the
document. The blank Deed of Trust did not identify a loan amount or reference
any promissory note. Defendant stated the blank Deed of Trust was “just a
backup and would not be used for anything.” Defendant stated that she would not
record the Deed of Trust because her intent was to “gift the property to [me
and Caesar].” 
 
On June 8, 2017, the
Palmdale property was sold for $190,000.00. 
There were net proceeds in the amount of $43,015.01 from the sale of the
Palmdale property. The proceeds were wired directly to Defendant’s account to
pay off part of the $387,500.00 loan. 
 
After Plaintiffs moved
into the Subject Property, Daniella spoke to Defendant about wanting to rent
out the other unit at the Subject Property. Defendant refused to agree to
renting out the other unit at the Property. A few years after moving into the Subject
Property, Plaintiffs entered into another transaction with Defendant for the
purchase of a single-family home in the City of Hawthorne. 
 
After Plaintiffs moved
to Hawthorne, Defendant did not approve renting out the vacant unit at the Subject
Property. Plaintiffs decided that it would be best for everyone, at this point,
if the Subject Property was sold. On July 7, 2021, Daniella listed the Property
on the MLS for $1.35 million with Theresa as the listing agent. On July 13,
2021, Daniella received a $1.175 million, all-cash offer for the Subject Property
and informed Defendant. Defendant said the offer was not a good enough offer
and that Plaintiffs could receive more. On April 15, 2022, the Subject Property
was once again listed on the MLS for $1.35 million and Defendant told Daniella that
she needed to be the listing agent for the transaction. On October 25, 2022, an
offer was made by a third-party to purchase the Property for $1.35 million. Defendant
did not agree to accept the $1.35MM offer for the Property. Defendant then
demanded that Plaintiffs sign the Subject Property over to her because, she
said Plaintiffs owed her more than the Subject Property was worth. Defendant said
Plaintiffs owed $500,000 for the original loan and another $508,000 for the
second loan for all the construction she did on the property, plus interest. 
 
The Los Angeles
Department of Building and Safety (“LADBS”) showed that Plaintiffs, as owners
of the Subject Property, had applied for several building permits on the
Subject Property. Plaintiffs deny doing so. 
 
In 2023, the
relationship with Defendant took a turn for the worse. Defendant started
harassing Daniella with all different kinds of threats, including threatening
to call Child Protective Services to have my children taken from me. The
threats and harassment caused significant distress and affected my day-today
life. In September 2023, and without any warning or notice to me, all the locks
and keys to the Subject Property had been changed. Also around that time, Daniella
found Caesar’s belongings that had been in the Subject Property strewn onto the
front yard of the Hawthorne property. Daniella went to the Subject Property to
check on it and was told by the people living there that they were told by Defendant
Theresa that she was the owner of the property and Plaintiffs had no right to
enter the premises for any reason. 
 
On September 12, 2023, Defendant
presented Plaintiffs with a promissory note for $508,000.00 and a new deed of
trust relating to the Property. 106. When I pointed out to Theresa that the
Property had been bought by Caesar and me for only $387,500, when the note was
for $508,000, Defendant said it was security for the loan on the Subject Property
and for improvements she made to the property. When Daniella told Defendant
that no major improvements to the Subject Property had been done while I was
living at the Subject Property, nor had she approved of or had any knowledge of
the improvements to the Subject Property, Defendant stated she did not need
approval to make improvements and that it was none of our business because it
was her property. Defendant screamed and yelled to sign the documents and said
she would make Plaintiffs’ lives living hells if they did not do what she said.
Defendant looked out of control, and Daniella feared her in that moment. 
 
By this time, my family
was intending to occupy and move back to the Subject Property to be under one
roof again and not lose the Subject property. On September 11, 2023, Defendant
threatened to foreclose on the Subject Property if Daniella did not sign the
promissory note. Defendant emailed me stating that signing the note was the
only way to gain more time at the Hawthorne property or else my family would
have nowhere to stay. Daniella signed the new deed of trust and the promissory
note on September 12, 2023. 
 
On September 20, 2023, Daniella
received a 30-day notice of default on the Hawthorne property from Theresa. Plaintiffs
have learned that two Notices of Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of
Trust were recorded against the Subject Property. 
 
(Declaration of Daniella Fiallos, ¶¶
4-144.)
 
Defendant provided the following:
 
In January 23, 2017, Defendant assisted
Plaintiffs in purchasing the Subject Property for $387,500 plus expenses for a
total of $392,500. Defendant deposited all of the funds a Note and Deed of
Trust was recorded. The Note Secured By A Deed of Trust was executed by both
Plaintiff’s on January 20, 2017. The Subject Property’s foundation needed to be
removed and replaced, Juan Ramirez of JCR Construction was hired to do the work
and was issued a Permit to remove and replace the entire foundation on March 17,
2017. On March 20, 2017, Plaintiffs’ contractor applied for a Building Permit
with the City of Los Angeles to replace the foundation.  In conjunction with the application, the City
inspected the Subject Property. Defendant paid for the fees. Due to the extent
of the work needed to bring the Subject Property up to current building code
standards, the Plaintiffs moved out and lived at a property Defendant owns at
9907 National Blvd, Los Angeles, CA.  As
with the Subject Property, Plaintiffs lived without paying any mortgage
payments, taxes, insurance or rent, which I provided. As the garage did not
have a secured footing and the structure was compromised, it needed to be torn
down and rebuilt. On 11/12/2017, architectural designer Michael Scanlon began
obtaining a building permit to demolish and rebuild the garage. The Permit was
issued on 06/01/2018 and finalized on 10/08/2019. 
 
On May 01, 2018, the Plaintiffs
authorized Defendant to go into the Department of Building and Safety to modify
and or obtain additional permits on their behalf. Construction continued on the
property up until October 11, 2019, when all permits on the property were
approved and finalized by The Department of Building and Safety inspector.
Throughout, Defendant incurred considerable expenses at the Subject Property in
an amount of not less than $608,000.00 to improve the Subject Property, which
was why Plaintiffs executed the Second Trust Deed for $508,000.00. 
 
No payments has ever been made by the
Plaintiffs for principal, interest, property taxes, or insurance, and Plaintiffs
never made a single payment towards the improvements. Plaintiffs moved back
into the Subject Property at the end of 2019 after the Los Angeles Department
of Building and Safety issued a Certificate of Occupancy on October 11, 2019. 
 
On July 7, 2021, Defendant and Daniella
Fiallos, a licensed real estate agent, colisted the Subject Property where all
the improvements were listed as part of the writeup on the property. The co-listing
displays the Daniella’s knowledge that the “[Subject] property was gutted and
rehabbed[.]” An offer for the list price of $1,175,000 was received shortly
thereafter but was rejected as it was well below the list price and value of
the property. On September 30, 2021, Defendant refinanced my house and bought the
house at 4203 W. 141st St, Hawthorne, California so that they could move to a
single-family house, while the Subject Property continued to be marketed for
sale. I am also the First Trust Deed Holder on the Hawthorne property. On
October 12, 2021, I purchased the Hawthrone house, where Plaintiffs currently
live (rent and mortgage free) and placed them on Title.
 
(Declaration of Theresa Fiallos,
¶¶ 4-35.)
 
In reviewing the factors set forth in 14589 Moorpark
Homeowner’s Ass’n, the court cannot find that Plaintiffs will prevail on
the merits of this case. First, the documentary evidence presented by
Defendants demonstrates that Plaintiffs were involved in repairing the Subject
Property. Moreover, even if they were not involved, it is clear that within two
months after the purchase was completed, work commenced on the Subject
Property. Yet, Plaintiffs’ denial that they had no information of any
improvements prior to Defendant seeking the additional promissory note in 2023
is problematic and defies credulity. Such a stark denial in the face of
documentary evidence presented by Defendant lessens the evidentiary value of
Plaintiffs’ evidence. Moreover, nowhere in Plaintiffs’ evidence does she
explain the circumstances of how the first note was effectuated and the written
terms of any agreement. But Defendant attempts to do so. Moreover, Defendant
corroborates the validity of the 2017 promissory note and its provisions with
emails from an escrow officer. 
 
Plaintiffs’ contention that a lack of remedy at law and
irreparable harm will come due if the court does not grant the Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is not supported by the facts of this case. In fact, it
appears that Plaintiffs do have available remedies at law. Based on the
evidence presented, the court will deny Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary
Injunction.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the evidence presented, the court will deny
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction.