  Case Number:  20STCV33808    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 16, 2023                           JUDGMENT:
July 6, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Eduardo Yanez Guzman v. RHC Automotive,
Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV33808            
 
MOTION
TO TAX COSTS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant FCA US LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Eduardo
Yanez Guzman
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/03/20: Complaint filed.
·        
05/10/23: Jury verdict rendered.
·        
05/17/23: Dismissal of RHC Automotive Inc.,
d/b/a Nissani Bros. Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram
·        
07/06/23: Judgment entered.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on September 3, 2020. Plaintiff
purchased a new 2016 Dodge Ram 2500 on January 23, 2016, which was delivered
with serious defects in the transmission and electrical systems as well as the
brakes and the engine. A jury verdict was rendered on May 10, 2023 in favor of
Plaintiff and against Defendant FCA US LLC. Judgment was entered on the verdict
on July 6, 2023. 
 
Defendant moves to tax costs
claimed in the memorandum of costs. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED as to
anticipated court reporter fees claimed in Attachment 12c of the Memorandum of
Costs and otherwise DENIED.  
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Defendant moves to tax costs
claimed in the memorandum of costs. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
In general, the “prevailing party” is entitled as a matter
of right to recover costs for suit in any action or proceeding. (Code Civ.
Proc. §1032(b); Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606; Scott Co.
Of Calif. v. Blount, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1103, 1108.)  Assuming the
“prevailing party” requirements are met, the trial court has no discretion to
order each party to bear his or her own costs of suit.  (Michell v.
Olick (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1198; Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 129.) 
 
Allowable costs under Section 1033.5 must be reasonably
necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than merely convenient or
beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in amount.  An item
not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a) nor prohibited under
subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court
if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable
in amount).  If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper
charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were
not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc.
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.)  On the other hand, if the items are
properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the
party claiming them as costs.  (Ibid.) Whether a cost item was
reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the
trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  (Ibid.) 
However, because the right to costs is governed strictly by statute, a court
has no discretion to award costs not statutorily authorized.  (Id.) 
Discretion is abused only when, in its exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds
of reason, all of the circumstances being considered.”  (Ibid.)   
 
Timeliness of Motion
            
            “Any notice of motion to strike
or to tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of the cost
memorandum. If the cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended
as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1013.” If the cost memorandum was served
electronically, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6(a)(4).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(b)(1).)  Further, the parties disputing costs
may agree to extend the time for filing and serving a cost memorandum and
motion to strike, but that agreement “must be confirmed in writing, specify the
extended date for service, and be filed with the clerk.” (Id.
Rule 3.1700(b)(3) [emphasis added].) 
 
            Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs was
filed with the Court and served electronically on August 1, 2023. Thus, the
deadline to file this motion was 15 calendar days from that date, plus two
court days for electronic service. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(a)(4).) 15
days after August 1, 2023 was August 16, 2023, and two court days after that
date was Friday, August 18, 2023. Defendant’s Motion to Tax Costs was filed and
served the following Monday, August 21. (Motion POS.) Both parties state that
they executed a written agreement to extend the time for service by treating
electronic service as mail service. (See Supplemental Declaration of
Christopher M. Fisher ISO Opp. ¶ 3; see also Plaintiff’s Non-opposition to
Defendant’s Opposition to Tentative Ruling.) No such agreement was ever filed
with this Court. However, as Plaintiff states that he considered the motion
timely served, the Court will accept the parties’ representations and construe
the motion as served by mail, rather than electronic service. Under that
construction, the motion to tax costs is timely. The Court will therefore
address Defendant’s motion on its merits.  
 
Disputed Cost
Items
 
            Defendants identify seven cost items
in Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Costs to which they object: (1) Deposition costs
in Item 4; (2) Service of Process costs in Item 5: (3) Costs for ordinary
witness fees in Item 8(a); (4) Deposition Costs and expert fees in Item 8(b);
(5) Models, Blowups, and Photocopies of Exhibits in Item 11; (6) Court Reporter
Fees in Item 12; and (7) “Other” costs, including attorney services and
messengers, travel, and interpreter costs in Item 13.
 
1.      Deposition Costs
 
Defendant first challenges Item 4 and attachment 4e in the
memorandum of costs, which claim a total of $5,102.80 in costs. Defendant
specifically disputes the claims for the deposition of Craig Martinez on April
1, 2022 amounting to $575, and the claims for deposition of Defendant’s Person
Most Knowledgeable on June 16 and July 26, totaling $529.20 and $510.50,
respectively. (Item 4a-c.) According to Defendant, the deposition
costs for Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable were not reasonably incurred
because the depositions did not go forward on those dates due to the
unavailability of the witness. (See Defendant’s Exh. C.) Plaintiff does not
dispute that the depositions did not go forward on June 16 or July 26, but has
provided invoices showing that the costs incurred were to record certificates
of nonappearance. (See Declaration of Deepak Devabose ISO Opp. Exh. B. pp.
2-3.) 
 
            The Court is not persuaded by
Defendant’s assertion that deposition costs for a notice of nonappearance is
unnecessary. Taking a certificate of nonappearance is routine practice when a
witness does not appear for a deposition to establish a record in the event
that a motion to compel is needed. Plaintiff’s choice to do so demonstrates
prudence and attention to detail, not unnecessary spending that should be
taxed.  
 
            Defendant
also argues that the April 1, 2022 deposition of Craig Martinez, person most
knowledgeable for Bravo CDJR, was unnecessary and unreasonable because the most
recent presentation of the subject vehicle to Bravo for services was November
2018. Defendant asserts that there was no good faith basis for conducting the
deposition because the witness had no recollection of Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s
vehicle. Defendant’s conclusory assertion does not suffice to substantiate an
objection to this claim for costs. (See, e.g., State v. Meyer (1985) 174
Cal.App.3d 1061, 1075.) 
 
            Defendant
has not demonstrated that the deposition costs claimed by Plaintiff must be
taxed.
 
2.      Service of Process
 
Second, Defendant challenges Item 5 in the Memorandum of
Costs seeking a total of $1,118.45 in costs for service of process. (Item 5,
Attach. 5d.) Defendant seeks to tax $1,088.45 of these costs as pertaining to service
on Craig Martinez and the personnel of both Bravo Chrysler and Champion Chrysler.
Defendant asserts that it should not be required to pay for service of process
costs related to depositions that ultimately did not go forward, or, with
respect to service on Mr. Martinez, for a deposition that yielded no useful
testimony. This conclusory statement is not sufficient to substantiate these
objections. California precedent holds that the determination of
whether the prevailing party’s costs are reasonably necessary should be
determined from a pre-trial perspective. (See, e.g., Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 132.) That a deposition ultimately did not prove
fruitful does not mean that costs pertaining to service of subpoenas were not
reasonably necessary to the litigation. Nor is the Court persuaded by
Defendant’s equally unsubstantiated assertions that because all subpoenas were likely
served at the same time and the same location, service on five prospective
witnesses was unreasonably duplicative. 
 
            As to
Defendant’s challenge on the basis that Plaintiff apparently served each
prospective witness twice, the memorandum of costs does not offer a facial
justification for this apparent duplicative service. However, Plaintiff has
provided invoices showing that the first set of subpoenas were served on
February 5, 2022, and the second set were served on September 8. (See, e.g.,
Devabose Decl. Exh. A. p. 1.) As with the certificates of nonappearance,
renewed service of deposition subpoenas after an extended period of time is a
prudent measure, and the Court is not persuaded that Plaintiff’s costs should
be taxed on this basis. 
 
3.      Ordinary Witness Fees
 
Defendant next seeks to tax the entirety of Plaintiff’s
claim for ordinary witness fees in Item 8(a), claiming that the witness fees of
Craig Martin were not necessarily incurred for the reasons asserted in
connection with the deposition of that witness. As the Court rejected
Defendant’s argument with respect to Item 4, that argument is likewise
insufficient here. Defendant has not demonstrated that this cost item should be
taxed. 
 
4.      Expert Witness Fees
 
Defendant next objects to Plaintiff’s claim for Expert
Witness fees totaling $11,106.34 for two expert witnesses. (Item 8(b).)
Defendant argues that this cost item should be taxed as to the fees of expert
witness Chris Morales by $7,529.87, on the basis that Mr. Morales incurred
significantly more hours and fees to prepare for his deposition, inspect
Plaintiff’s vehicle, and prepare for trial than Defendant’s expert did for the
same tasks. The Court is not persuaded. Mere comparison of the expert fees
claimed by Plaintiff to those incurred by Defendant does not suffice to
demonstrate that Plaintiff’s expert fees were unreasonably incurred. The expert
fees incurred by the losing party are not evidence that the expert fees
incurred by the party who prevailed in a jury trial are unreasonable. Defendant’s
conclusory assertions that the expert’s hours are excessive do not carry its
burden to properly challenge these costs. 
 
5.      Models, Blowups, and Photocopies of
Exhibits
 
Defendant also objects to Plaintiff’s claim for $5,412.89
in costs for models, blowups, and photocopies of exhibits in Item 11.
(Memorandum of Costs Item 11.) Defendant asserts that this cost is unreasonable
because only 167 exhibits were identified in the joint exhibit list, but
provides no explanation for why the number of exhibits renders this cost item
excessive. Conclusory assertions do not suffice to substantiate
an objection to this claim for costs. (See, e.g., State v. Meyer (1985)
174 Cal.App.3d 1061, 1075.) Defendant has failed to demonstrate that this cost
item should be taxed. 
 
6.     
Court Reporter Fees
 
Defendant next objects to Plaintiff’s
claim for Court Reporter Fees in Item 12 in the amount of $10,819.03.
(Memorandum of Costs Item 12.) Once again, Defendant bases its challenge on a
conclusory assertion—this time, that the court reporter fees are “unreasonable”
because they vary from hearing to hearing. This assertion does not suffice to
demonstrate that the reporter fees are unreasonable. 
 
That said, Defendant also objects
to Plaintiff’s request for “anticipated” court reporter fees in the amount of
$600. (See Attach. 12c.) As Defendant correctly states, this claim is speculative
and necessarily concerns costs that have not been incurred. The Court therefore
finds that this cost item should be taxed in the amount of $600.
 
7.     
Other Costs
 
Finally, Defendant objects to
Plaintiff’s claim for other costs, including “Attorney Services and
Messengers,” “travel,” and interpreter costs, totaling $12,905.08, in Item 13.
Defendant offers no basis for objecting to these costs other than the
conclusory assertion that they are duplicative or unreasonable. These broad assertions
are not sufficient. (See, e.g., State v. Meyer (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d
1061, 1075.) Defendant has failed to demonstrate that this cost item should be
taxed. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs should be taxed by $600 as
pertaining to anticipated court reporter fees claimed in Attachment 12c. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Tax Costs is GRANTED as to anticipated court reporter fees claimed in
Attachment 12c of the Memorandum of Costs and otherwise DENIED.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: November 16, 2023                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 