 Case Number:  24BBCV00233    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 22,
2024

MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00233

 



MP:  


Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transport Authority (Defendant)




RP:  


Alex Avi (Plaintiff) [No Response
  Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Alex Avi (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that he was injured while he was a passenger in
a bus operated by Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s employee
negligently operated the bus such that Plaintiff was thrown to the ground and
sustained significant injury. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion by Defendant to dismiss the Complaint of Plaintiff for
failure to comply with an order of the Court. On September 6, 2024, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the Production of
Documents. The Court additionally assessed $1,680 in sanctions to be paid
within 30 days. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s failure to comply with this
order warrants the Court’s issuance of terminating sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff has filed
no opposition to this motion. Pursuant to C.R.C. Rule
8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being
granted. The Court notes that on November 1, 2024, a Motion to be Relieved
brought by Plaintiff’s counsel was granted. Plaintiff has made no appearances
before the Court and appears to now represent himself in pro per. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where a party fails
to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court’s orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A terminating
sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with caution.” (Id.
at 793.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.
But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th
262, 279-280.) 
 
While the court has
discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
On September 6, 2024,
this Court entered an order compelling Plaintiff to respond to Defendant’s
initial discovery demands within 30 days. This order included the imposition of
$1,680 in monetary sanctions, also to be paid within 30 days. Defendant states
that Plaintiff has neither responded to discovery nor paid the sanctions. (Wainfeld
Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Discussion 
 
When deciding whether
to impose terminating sanctions, courts generally weigh three factors: (1)
whether the party subject to the sanction acted willfully, (2) the detriment to
the party seeking discovery, and (3) the number of formal and informal unsuccessful
attempts to obtain discovery. (Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 690, 702; Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)

 
Here, the Court finds
that the evidence does not indicate Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the
Court’s order was willful. Defendant’s declaration in support presents no facts
from which the Court could determine Plaintiff’s noncompliance was willful
rather than negligent. Nor does the declaration contain information showing
that Plaintiff’s lack of diligence is demonstrative of willful noncompliance.
(See Deyo supra, at 787 [“Lack of diligence may be deemed willful in the
sense that the party understood his obligation, had the ability to comply, and
failed to comply.”].) 
 
Further, Defendant’s
counsel does not attest to any informal efforts to obtain Plaintiff’s
compliance after the order was issued. Defendant’s declaration is silent as to
any attempts to reach out to Plaintiff to discuss the outstanding discovery
after the September 6 order. These concerns are particularly salient as
Plaintiff has recently become without counsel. It is also important to note
that Defendant served notice of the motion on Plaintiff’s former counsel, and
the Court is uncertain whether Plaintiff is aware of the pending motion.  Without a declaration of Defendant’s informal
attempts to resolve this matter, the Court cannot say that Plaintiff’s
noncompliance was willful. It appears just as likely that Plaintiff’s failure
to comply resulted from his simple neglect of the case. 
 
As a last matter, the
Court finds no evidence that less severe sanctions would fail to obtain
Plaintiff’s compliance. While monetary sanctions appear to have been
ineffective thus far, the same cannot be said of evidentiary or issue
sanctions. As Defendant has neither requested nor briefed any lesser form of
sanctions, the Court finds granting any such sanctions in connection with this
motion would be improper. 
 
Accordingly, the
Motion for Terminating Sanctions is continued and Defense is ordered to serve
Plaintiff who is now pro per.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transport Authority’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions
came on regularly for hearing on November 22, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS CONTINUED TO DECEMBER
20, 2024 AT 9:00.
 
DEFENDANT
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 22, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 