 Case Number:  23BBCV02695    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 22,
2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES & DEEM RFA ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02695

 



MP:  


Mido
  Khalil (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Ivan Koumaev and Matt Aylward
  (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Mido Khalil (Plaintiff) brings this action against Ivan
Koumaev (Koumaev), Matt Aylward (Aylward), Anthony Bellissimo, and HUBNOHO, LLC
(Hub) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that he and the individual
Defendants formed Hub in 2018 as a partnership. Plaintiff further alleges that
his interest in the partnership has been unjustly usurped by Individual
Defendants. Plaintiff states he has been deprived of profits from Hub and barred
from examining its financial records. 
 
Before the Court is a total of four motions, all brought by
Plaintiff. Plaintiff seeks to compel the response of Koumaev and Aylward to his
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Request for Production of
Documents (RFDP). Plaintiff also moves to have matters in his Request for
Admissions (RFA) deemed admitted. 
 
Koumaev and Aylward oppose the motions. Plaintiff has filed
no reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On June
29, 2024, Plaintiff served both Koumaev and Aylward with his Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, RFPD, and RFA via email and mail to their
counsel. (Nwabuzor Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Accordingly, responses were due on July
31, 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel states that no responses were received as of the
filing of these motions on October 8, 2024. (Nwabuzor Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
In
opposition, Koumaev and Aylward each submit declarations explaining the
circumstances behind their non-response. Both Koumaev and Aylward state that
they were under the mistaken belief that because they are part owners of Hub,
they did not need to separately respond to discovery propounded upon them
individually. (Koumaev and Aylward Decl. ¶ 3.) Koumaev and Aylward both state
they have now met with their counsel and understand their discovery obligations
moving forward. (Id. at ¶ 5.) 
 
Further,
both Koumaev and Aylward have filed Proofs of Service for their responses to Plaintiff’s
discovery demands. (See Nov. 12 Proof of Service.) These Proofs of Service
reflect that Koumaev and Aylward’s have now served responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, RFPD, and RFA. Plaintiff has filed no
reply papers, and thus presented no argument that the November 12, 2024
discovery responses were not substantially code compliant or were otherwise
defective. 
 
Given
Koumaev and Aylward have served responses prior to the hearing on this motion,
the Court denies the motions as MOOT. All that remains is the issue of
sanctions. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court has
discretion to impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct. (C.C.P. §
2023.030(a).) In contrast, the Court must grant sanctions against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to interrogatories or RFPD, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c) &
2031.300(c).) Sanctions are also mandatory in cases where of failure to timely
respond to requests for admission unless the party acted with substantial
justification, or the circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) 
 
Here,
the Court finds the imposition of sanctions is mandatory for failure to serve
timely responses to RFA. As such, sanctions must issue unless Koumaev and
Aylward were substantially justified in their opposition, or the circumstances
make the imposition of sanctions unjust. To this end, Koumaev and Aylward argue
that because they are members of Hub, they already bear the financial
responsibility for the sanctions that were imposed by the Court’s November 1,
2024 Order. (Koumaev and Aylward Decl. ¶ 10.)  Koumaev and Aylward further argue that these
motions could not have taken the amount of time (two and a half hours)
specified in the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id. at 14.) 
 
The
Court finds these arguments to be unpersuasive. The fact that Koumaev and
Aylward are already responsible for sanctions awarded against Hub does not
negate the fact that Plaintiff was required to bring these motions to obtain
their compliance. Although Plaintiff’s motions as to Hub and his motions as to
Koumaev and Aylward are similar, Plaintiff was legally obligated to file them separately.
As such, Plaintiff was required to incur costs in the form of preparing these
motions and filing them. These costs were ostensibly caused by Koumaev and
Aylward failing to reply to discovery. 
 
At
the same time, the Court recognizes that the content of these motions is substantially
similar such that they should not have taken two and half hours each to
prepare. Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $ 1,220.
This amount reflects one hour of attorney work per motion at a rate of $550 per
hour, as well as the $60 fee for each filing.  This amount in connection with the sanction
from HUB in this instance is reasonable.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Mido Khalil’s Motions
to Compel Responses to Discovery & Deem RFA Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on November 22, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE MOOT.
 
THE MOTIONS TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED ARE MOOT.
  
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $610 AS AGAINST
IVAN KOUMAEV.  
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $610 AS
AGAINST MATT AYLWARD.
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: November
22, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 