  Case Number:  23BBCV00117    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 22,
2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00117

 



MP:  


Jonathan
  Lee (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Zane
  and Gina Cazares (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jonathan Lee
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Zane and Gina Cazares (Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges he was injured by virtue of Defendants’ negligent operation
of a motor vehicle. 
 
Before the Court is
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Dr. Mark Spoonamore
(Spoonamore). Plaintiff asks the Court order the deposition of Spoonamore, who
conducted an independent medical examination of Plaintiff in March 2024.
Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts
 
On February 14, 2024, Defendants served a demand for
Plaintiff’s Medical Examination by Spoonamore. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. 1.)
Plaintiff thereafter objected to the examination and the parties commenced
efforts to informally resolve the issues. (Aziev Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, Exhs. 2-4.)
Plaintiff presented 17 conditions on which the examination could proceed, to
which Defendants’ counsel agreed via email. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 3.) 
 
Plaintiff directs the Court’s attention to condition number
15, which requires Defendants to (1) provide a copy of Spoonamore’s written
report to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of the examination and (2) produce
Spoonamore for deposition within 30 days of producing his report. (Aziev Decl.,
Exh. 2 at p. 4.) On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff’s examination by Spoonamore
occurred as planned. Plaintiff states that the Spoonamore report was untimely
produced on May 1, 2024. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 4.) 
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff unilaterally noticed the
deposition of Spoonamore to occur on May 29, 2024. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 5.) On
May 23, 2024, Defendants agreed to produce Spoonamore, but stated he was
unavailable on May 29. (Aziev. Decl., Exh. 6.) Defendants also served
objections to the notice on grounds that it failed to specify with sufficient
particularity the things to be produced pursuant to C.C.P. § 2025.220. (Aziev.
Decl., Exh. 6.) Defendants also objected to each of Plaintiff’s 28 demands for
production. (Id.)
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel responded to the
objections with the following: 
 
We need the dates for
Dr. Spoonamore’s deposition as soon as possible. I see your objections assert
that our notice of Dr. Spoonamore’s deposition is premature. I disagree and
remind you the agreements the parties reached during our meet-and-confer
discussions prior to the Defense Medical Examination (“DME”) of Mr. Lee. As you
recall, Plaintiff served his objections with conditions for the DME to go
forward. (See attached Objections.) You expressly agreed to all conditions in
our objections, with condition number 15 stating: “Dr. Spoonamore shall make
himself available for deposition within 30-days of producing the report
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, subdivision (c).” (See
attached email.) You provided Dr. Spoonamore’s report on May 1, 2024, making
May 31 the last day for Defendants to make him available for a deposition. For
that reason, we intend to go forward with Spoonamore’s deposition and request
his availability without further delay.
 
(Aziev Decl. Exh. 8.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel then reached out several more times to
secure a mutually agreeable date for the deposition. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 8.) It
does not appear arrangements for the May 31, 2024 deposition were made or that
any nonappearance was taken. Having received no dates, Plaintiff’s counsel then
once more unilaterally noticed the deposition for July 12, 2024. (Aziev Decl,
Exh. 9.) Defendants’ counsel responded that Spoonamore was not available on
July 12, but would be available on August 22. (Aziev. Decl., Exh. 10.)
Plaintiff’s counsel then served an amended motion for August 22, 2024. (Aziev
Decl., Exh. 11.) On August 15, 2024, Defendants agreed to produce Spoonamore,
but served objections to the August 22 deposition notice. (Aziev Decl., Exh.
12.) The objections served mirror those previously served by Defendants in
response to the May 29 deposition notice. (Id.) 
 
On August 22, 2024, a few hours before the deposition,
Defendants counsel emailed to inform that he would be unable provide coverage
for the deposition due to an unexpected personal emergency. (Aziev Decl., Exh.
13 at p. 140.) Plaintiff’s counsel replied via email asking whether Spoonamore
could be deposed August 26 or 28. (Id. at p. 138.)  Counsel for the parties then exchanged
various emails, ultimately arriving at October 3, 2024. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 14.)

 
On October 1, 2024, Defendants’ counsel emailed to inform
that Spoonamore had an unexpected necessary surgery and could not make the
October 3 deposition. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 13, at p. 133.) Plaintiff’s counsel
responded that he had no choice other than to seek court intervention to ensure
Spoonamore’s deposition. (Id.) Defendants’ counsel responded that they
are not refusing to produce Spoonamore and offered November 7, 2024 as an
available date. 
 
Discussion 
 
The Court begins by addressing Plaintiff’s arguments as
concerns Spoonamore’s report being produced to Plaintiff untimely. Plaintiff’s
submissions demonstrate that he is in possession of the report and declines to
address the timeliness of the report.
 
Next, the Court finds Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff
failed to meet and confer to be unpersuasive. C.C.P. § 2025.450(b)(2) requires
this motion be accompanied by “a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” The declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel details at length his
informal efforts to depose Spoonamore since May of this year. Plaintiff’s
counsel is not required to attempt informal resolution ad naseum. 
 
Moving onto the operative question posed by this motion,
the Court finds that Spoonamore’s deposition should be compelled. The motion
asks whether Spoonamore failed to appear for a noticed deposition to which he
did not validly object under C.C.P. § 2025.240. It appears the answer to that
question is yes. Although Defendants’ counsel objected to the May 29 and August
22 deposition notices, they simultaneously agreed to produce Spoonamore on
those dates. Defendants thereafter unilaterally cancelled those appearances. In
the case of the August 22 deposition, Defendants’ counsel cancelled mere hours
before the deposition was slated to occur, the Court believes that it was
incumbent on the party cancelling a lawfully noticed deposition to agree to
timely replacement dates. While the basis for the cancellation may have been
meritorious, professionalism dictates taking the responsibility to offer timely
replacement dates. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel is GRANTED. The Court
orders Spoonamore’s deposition to occur within the next 30 days. 
 
Sanctions 
 
 “If a motion under
subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450.) 
 
Given the motion is granted, Plaintiff would generally be
entitled to monetary sanctions. However, as pointed out by Defendants in
opposition, Plaintiff’s notice has failed to comply with C.C.P. 2023.040. Section
2023.040 states that "[a] request for a sanction shall, in the notice of
motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is
sought, and specify the type of sanction sought." Here, Plaintiff’s notice
of motion makes no explicit mention of sanctions. The notice does not identify
any type of sanctions sought nor describe any party/attorney against whom they
are sought. 
 
Plaintiff argues in reply that his notice did comply with
C.C.P. § 2023.040 because it states the motion is being made “pursuant to Civil
Procedure sections 2025.450 et seq. [providing grounds for an award of monetary
sanctions], 2023.010 [listing the types of discovery abuse].” (Reply p. 5.)
This argument is unpersuasive. General reference to an entire code section as
equivalent to the specific identification of requested sanctions required by
C.C.P. § 2023.040. 
 
Plaintiff’s argument that he fulfilled the notice
requirement by addressing the sanctions in the body of the motion are similarly
unpersuasive. C.C.P. § 2023.040 is clear that sanctions must be explicitly
requested in the notice of the motion, not that they be mentioned somewhere in
Plaintiff’s motion. Plaintiff is familiar with this requirement, as his
previous discovery motions in this case do explicitly outline the type of
sanctions sought and the parties they are sought against. (See Plaintiff’s July
24, 2024 Notice of Motion to Compel Further Responses.) 
 
Further, the case upon which Plaintiff relies in making
this argument, Kinda v. Carpenter (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1268, is
inapposite. Plaintiff argues that Kinda held that the purpose of notice
requirements can still be fulfilled even when the notice is deficient.
Plaintiff argues that “there can be no dispute” that his notice of motion put
Defendants on notice that he was seeking monetary sanctions. 
 
The Court finds the citation to Kinda unpersuasive
for a variety of reasons. First, Kinda concerned notice requirements for
motions in limine to exclude evidence. Nothing in Kinda addresses C.C.P.
§ 2023.040 or a request for sanctions in connection to a discovery motion.
Second, Kinda makes clear that there are circumstances in which a
defective notice may still fulfill the purpose of notice statutes to
“sufficiently define the issues for the information and attention of the
adverse party and the court.” (Kinda supra, 247 Cal.App.4th 1268
at 1277.) Whether a defective notice fulfills the purpose of a statute
is a separate question from whether that notice complies with the requirements
established by the clear language of that statute. 
 
Given the foregoing, the Court declines to grant sanctions
in connection with this motion for failure to comply with C.C.P. § 2023.040. 
 
Discovery Referee
 
The Court notes that this motion concerns but one of many
discovery disputes in this case. The Court has previously conducted two
Informal Discovery Conferences in this matter. (See March 26, 2024 and April 2,
2024 Minute Orders.) In addition, the Court has already adjudicated four
Motions to Compel Further Responses. At present there are three additional
discovery related motions on calendar before years’ end. Considering the volume
of discovery disputes in this case and the substantial time required to review
them, the Court encourages the parties to renew efforts to meet and confer on
these issues. Should the path of discovery remain this arduous in the coming
months, the Court may contemplate the appointment of a discovery referee
pursuant to C.C.P. § 639.  The Cost of the referee will be borne by the
parties per order of the Court upon terms consistent with the statute governing
a discovery referee.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jonathan Lee’s Motion
to Compel Deposition came on regularly for hearing on
November 22, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for
said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and
there rule as follows:  
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL IS
GRANTED. 
 
THE DEPOSITION OF DR.
MARK SPOONAMORE IS TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: November
22, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 