 Case Number:  24NNCV03570    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 22,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV03570

 



MP:  


Darren Frydendall & Shannon Smith
  (Plaintiffs) 




RP:  


Charter Communications (Non-Party
  Deponent) [No Opposition Filed]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Darren Frydendall
& Shannon Smith (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Doe Defendants 1
through 25 (Doe Defendants). Plaintiffs allege that anonymous persons,
identified here as Doe Defendants, have been contacting them through email since
2020. These emails are alleged to include racial epithets and to be of a generally
harassing nature. Plaintiffs state a single cause of action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion to compel non-party Charter Communications (Charter) to comply with a
deposition subpoena. Plaintiffs’ subpoena seeks all billing records in
connection with an IP they allege is connected to the Doe Defendants.
Plaintiffs state they require this information because they do not know the
identity of the Doe Defendants. 
 
Charter refused to
comply with this subpoena, citing 47 U.S.C. 551(c)(2)(B)
as preventing them from doing so without a court order. Charter has not opposed
this motion, though it is uncertain whether notice of this motion was ever
served on them.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
C.C.P. § 2025.210
 
As a
preliminary matter the Court notes that Plaintiffs are not in compliance with C.C.P.
§ 2025.210. C.C.P. § 2025.210 prohibits a plaintiff from serving a deposition
notice any time before 20 days from the date of service. This deposition “hold”
applies to all discovery by deposition, including business records subpoenas to
nonparties (California Shellfish, Inc. v. United Shellfish Co. (1997) 56
Cap.App.4th 16, 21 [improper to serve business records subpoena before serving
any defendant with summons and complaint].) However, a court may authorize a
plaintiff to serve a deposition notice before expiration of the
"hold" for good cause shown. (C.C.P. § 2025.210(b).) Such relief may
be granted via ex parte application. (Id.)   
 
Regardless,
the Court finds this noncompliance is inconsequential given the circumstances.
C.C.P. § 2025.210 et seq. As will be discussed below, the statutes
governing the production of identifying information by internet service
providers contain ample due process protections. These statutes essentially
fill the role of properly noticing a party to the existence of an action
against them prior to their information being revealed.  In short, the Court finds Plaintiffs failure
to seek relief under C.C.P. § 2025.210 is not fatal to the instant motion. 
 
Proof of Service 
 
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346 requires a motion to compel compliance with a
deposition subpoena to be personally served on the non-party whose compliance
is sought. Here, Plaintiffs’ motion is unaccompanied by any proof of service.
While Plaintiffs attach the Proof of Service for the subpoena itself, there is
no evidence that this motion was personally served on Charter. On these grounds
alone Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Regardless,
the Court finds further analysis on the merits to be prudent given Plaintiffs
seem likely to renew this motion. 
 
Motion to Compel Subpoena Compliance 
 
Plaintiffs’
motion undoubtedly requests an order of this Court directing a non-party,
Charter, to comply with a deposition subpoena. In California, such motions are
governed by C.C.P. § 1987.1(a) which provides that, “…the Court, upon motion...
may make an order... directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare.” 
 
Plaintiffs’
Notice of Motion states this motion is brought pursuant to 47 U.S.C.
551(c)(2)(B). This is incorrect. 47 U.S.C. 551(c)(2)(B) states in relevant
part, “A cable operator may disclose such information if the disclosure
is…subject to subsection (h), made pursuant to a court order authorizing such
disclosure, if the subscriber is notified of such order by the person to whom
the order is directed.” 47 U.S.C. 551(c)(2)(B) does not, in and of itself,
authorize this Court to order compliance with a non-party deposition subpoena.
47 U.S.C. 551(c)(2)(B) merely permits a cable provider to disclose personal
identifying information pursuant to a court order, it does not independently
authorize State courts (or any other courts) to make those orders. 
 
As
previously stated, whether an order should issue in regard to this motion is
governed by C.C.P. § 1987.1(a). Although the statute does not require it,
courts have made clear that the moving party must demonstrate good cause to
compel a non-party’s compliance with a deposition subpoena. (See Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-24
[holding that orders compelling non-party subpoena compliance require the same
showing of good cause as orders compelling subpoena compliance of a party].) 
 
However,
because this motion requests the identification of Doe Defendants in connection
with anonymous speech, the Court’s determination is not so simple. In Krinsky
v. Doe 6 (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1154, the California Court of Appeal
established that a party seeking identifying information of an anonymous
defendant must satisfy three requirements to overcome that defendant’s
Constitutional right to anonymity. 
 
First,
the plaintiff must try to notify the anonymous speaker that they are the
subject of a subpoena, if notice has not already been given. (Krinsky supra,
159 Cal.App.4th at 1171.) What efforts suffice under this
requirement are variable, as the Krinsky court recognized the fleeting
nature of online forums and chat rooms. (Id.) The Krinsky court
further observed that this requirement can be fulfilled by cable providers
themselves, as they often provide notice to their subscribers when receiving a subpoena.
(Id.) 
 
Second,
the plaintiff must specify the actionable statements made by the defendant and
their alleged meanings. (See Glassdoor, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 623, 635 [establishing this requirement and explaining that it
was not discussed in Krinsky because the facts there did not require it].)
In essence, the plaintiff must identify what defendant said and how those words
create a cause of action. In Glassdoor, which concerned vague
allegations of breach of contract, this meant the plaintiff had to identify
what defendant’s statements were and how they gave rise to a cause of action
for breach of contract. (Id.)
 
Third,
the plaintiff must make a prima facie showing that their cause of action has
merit. (Krinsky supra at 1173.) While Krinsky discussed this
requirement only in the context of libel, the Glassdoor court made clear
that a prima facie showing is mandatory in “any action predicated on anonymous
speech.” (Glassdoor supra, 9 Cal.App.5th at 634-635.) 
 
Any
briefing in support of a renewed motion should appropriately address the Krinsky
factors and their applicability to this motion.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Darren Frydendall
& Shannon Smith’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena came on regularly for hearing on November 22, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS. 
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 22, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 