  Case Number:  20STCV49246    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




seran ng, d.m.d., inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
yang lu

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV49246




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   19, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)   defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
(2)   defendants’ joinder to motion for summary judgment
  or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendant Yang Lu (joined by
defendants Bowen Duan and Jiayin Huang on January 12, 2024)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Seran Ng, D.M.D., Inc.
(1)  
Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
(2)  
Joinder to Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
The court considered the moving, joinder, opposition, and reply to
joinder papers filed in connection with this motion. 
The court considered the first 10 pages of the “Reply to Plaintiff
Seran Ng, D.M.D., Inc.’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment,” filed by defendant Yang Lu on April 12, 2024.  The court did not consider the 11th page of
this reply brief because “[n]o reply or closing memorandum may exceed 10
pages.”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113,
subd. (d).) 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Yang Lu’s request for judicial notice, filed on December 22, 2023, without
taking judicial notice of the truth of the assertions contained in the subject
articles.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(h); Seelig v. Infinity Broadcasting Corp. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 798,
807, n. 5.) 
The court (1) sustains plaintiff
Seran Ng, D.M.D., Inc.’s evidentiary objection to the request for judicial
notice filed by defendant Yang Lu in support of her reply papers, and therefore
(2) denies defendant Yang Lu’s request
for judicial notice, filed on April 12, 2024. 
(Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537 [“new evidence
is not permitted with reply papers”].) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiff Seran Ng, D.M.D., Inc.’s evidentiary
objections to defendant Yang Lu’s evidence, filed on March 19, 2024, as
follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 2, 5, and 12-13.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1, 3-4, 6-11, and 14-25.
The court rules on plaintiff Seran Ng, D.M.D., Inc.’s evidentiary
objections to defendants Bowen Duan and Jiayin Huang’s evidence, filed on March
19, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 2, 4, and 6-7.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1, 3, 5, and 8-11.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Yang Lu (“Lu”) moves the court for
an order granting summary judgment in her favor and against plaintiff Seran
N.G., D.M.D., Inc. (“Plaintiff”) on Plaintiff’s Complaint or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication on each cause of action alleged by Plaintiff.  
On January 12, 2024, defendants Bowen Duan
(“Duan”) and Jiayin Huang (“Huang”) (collectively, “Joining Defendants”)[1] filed a joinder to Lu’s motion for summary judgment
or, alternatively, summary adjudication. 
 

1.     First
Cause of Action for Defamation – Libel 
“Libel is a false and unprivileged publication by writing,
printing, picture, effigy, or other fixed representation to the eye, which
exposes any person to hatred, contempt, ridicule, or obloquy, or which causes
him to be shunned or avoided, or which has a tendency to injure him in his
occupation.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 45.)  The elements of a defamation
claim are “(a) a publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d) unprivileged,
and that (e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special damage.”  (Sanchez v. Bezos (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 750, 763 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)  
The court finds that defendant Lu has not met her burden of
showing that the first cause of action for defamation – libel has no merit
because Lu has not shown that the element of falsity cannot be established
since she has not shown that her statements were true or substantially
true.     
Courts “focus not on the literal truth or falsity of each word in
a statement, but rather on whether the gist or sting of the statement is true
or false, benign or defamatory, in substance.” 
(Edward v. Ellis (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 780, 790 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].)  “California
law permits the defense of substantial truth and would absolve a defendant even
if she cannot justify each word of the alleged defamatory matter; it is
sufficient if the substance of the charge by proved true, irrespective of the
slight inaccuracy in the details.”  (Dickinson
v. Cosby (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 655, 691 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].)
Plaintiff’s libel causes of action are based on various statements
made by defendant Lu, including her statements that (1) her son, J.D., had his
hand injured during the procedure performed on him by Plaintiff; (2) a male
assistant slapped and scared a child; (3) Plaintiff’s staff “beat” children; and
(4) Plaintiff’s staff “squeezed” J.D.’s neck. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 23, 26, 38, 47; Compl., Ex. B, p. 2 [review from Yang L.
stating that “Lots of kid[s] had same experience same like my child.  Male assistant slapped the child face and
scare[d] the child”]; Compl., Ex. C [review from Lu stating “You compelled him
to accept treatment inside, beat and shouted at him” and “squeezed his
throat”] [emphasis added]; Compl., Ex. I [post stating that Plaintiff’s “male
assistant pressed [Lu’s] kid’s neck violently and bundled his legs with tapes”
and, after J.D. exited the clinic, “his left hand was injured].) 
The court finds that Lu has not shown that each of the statements alleged
above were true or substantially true. 
First, Lu does not dispute that she made a statement that
Plaintiff’s staff member slapped a child. 
(Lu Decl., ¶ 14.)  She states,
in her declaration, that “[a]nother mother told [Lu] [that her] own child had
been injured under Plaintiff’s care and slapped by one of Plaintiff’s
employee[s].”  (Ibid.)  However, even if Lu had been told that a
staff member working for Plaintiff had slapped another child, Lu has not
presented evidence establishing that the underlying statement (i.e., that one
of Plaintiff’s staff members slapped a child) is true or substantially
true.  (Ibid.) 
Second, Lu has not submitted evidence showing that her statement
that Plaintiff “beat” J.D. is true.  The
court acknowledges that Lu has submitted evidence showing that (1) she did not
observe any injuries on her son before leaving him in Plaintiff’s care and
control, and (2) she noticed an injury to her son’s hand after the
procedure.  (Lu Decl., ¶¶ 6,
12.)  However, the court finds that this
evidence does not show that Lu’s statement that Plaintiff “beat” J.D. is true
or that the gist of this assertion is substantially true. 
Third, the court notes that the evidence that Lu has submitted in
support of her moving papers shows the existence of a triable issue of material
fact on the element of falsity. 
Specifically, Lu has submitted the declaration of Jacqueline Ramirez, a
former employee of Plaintiff, who states that (1) “[a]t no point during
[J.D.’s] Procedure was [J.D.] beaten, slapped, shouted at, or yelled at[,]” (2)
“[a]t no point during [J.D.’s] Procedure was there any contact with [his]
hands[,]” and (3) she observed, upon unwrapping J.D. from the papoose board,
that he had a pre-existing injury to his left hand that appeared to be a
scab.  (Stone Decl., Ex. 6, Ramirez
Decl., ¶¶ 14, 16, 21-22.)  Thus,
Lu’s own evidence shows that there is a triable issue of material fact as to
whether the statements made regarding whether Plaintiff injured J.D. during the
procedure or “beat” J.D. were true. 
Finally, even if Lu had met her burden to show that each of the
statements that she made were true, the court finds that Plaintiff has met its
burden to submit evidence to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the falsity of the statements. 
Plaintiff has submitted declarations from itself and some of its staff
members, all of whom state that (1) J.D. was not beaten, slapped, shouted at,
yelled at, (2) there was not any contact with J.D.’s hands during his
procedure, and (3) J.D.’s neck was not pressed violently during his
procedure.  (Ng Decl., ¶¶ 19, 21-22;
Opp., Ex. HH, Ramirez Decl., ¶¶ 14, 16-17; Opp., Ex. JJ, Mayorquin Decl.,
¶¶ 6, 14, 16-17.) 
The court finds that defendant Lu has not met her burden of
showing that the first cause of action for defamation – libel has no merit
because Lu has not shown that the element of a false assertion of fact cannot
be established.  
The court acknowledges that opinions are, in general, not
actionable.  (Issa v. Applegate (2019)
31 Cal.App.5th 689, 702 [“Though mere opinions are generally not actionable
[citation], a statement of opinion that implies a false assertion of fact is
actionable”] [internal citation omitted].) 
However, Lu has not shown that each alleged statement constitutes an
opinion.  For example, while the
statement that Plaintiff’s “‘male assistant is super arrogant’” may constitute
an opinion, that is not the only statement that Lu made.  (Compl., ¶ 28.)  As set forth above, the Complaint alleges a
number of statements on which the libel causes of action are based, including
that Lu’s son was injured while in Plaintiff’s care, Plaintiff’s staff members
“beat” J.D., and a child had been slapped by one of Plaintiff’s staff
members.  Lu has not argued that these
statements constitute non-actionable opinion, and the court finds these
statements to be assertions of fact.  (Wong
v. Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1370 (“Wong”) [courts use a
totality of the circumstances test to determine whether the statement
communicates or implies a provably false statement of fact].) 
The court finds that defendant Lu has not met her burden of
showing that the first cause of action for defamation – libel has no merit
because Lu has not shown that the element of unprivileged statements cannot be
established since she has not shown that her statements are privileged (1) as
matters of public concern, or (2) under Civil Code section 47. 
First, Lu contends that her statements are privileged because they
concerned a matter of public interest. 
However, the authority that Lu primarily relies on, Wong, supra,
189 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1366-1367, evaluated whether the statements at issue
involved a public issue within the meaning of the Strategic Lawsuits Against
Public Participation (anti-SLAPP) statute (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16).  Lu has not cited authority establishing that
the court may find that her statements are privileged, and therefore
non-actionable as defamatory, if they concern a public issue. 
Second, even if Lu had cited authority establishing that
statements made on a public issue are privileged, the court would find that Lu
has not met her burden to show that all of the alleged statements attributed to
her concerned a public issue.  Although
Lu has argued that she “was speaking about her own child’s experience with a
papoose board[,]” the court disagrees. 
(Mot., p. 21:5-6.)  As set forth
above, many of the statements alleged in support of the libel causes of action
asserted that Plaintiff physically harmed J.D., beat other children, and
slapped at least one other child.  (Compl.,
¶¶ 22, 23, 26.)  Thus, even if the
court were to find that (1) statements made on issues of public concern are
privileged, and (2) the use of papoose boards constitutes such a public
concern, Lu has not shown that her statements discussed that concern.    
            Third, Lu argues that her reports to
the police are protected under Civil Code section 47. Civil Code section 47
sets forth various publications or broadcasts that are privileged, including
those made “in any other official proceeding authorized by law” or “in the
initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized by law and reviewable
pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1084) of Title 1 of Part 3 of
the Code of Civil Procedure,” subject to certain exceptions.  (Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b).)  Lu has presented evidence establishing that
she “filed a police report with the City of Industry due to Plaintiff’s
actions.”  (Lu Decl., ¶ 16; Stone
Decl., Ex. 5 [County of Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department Incident
Report].)  However, Lu has not shown that
Plaintiff’s defamation claims are based on the statements that she made in
filing that police report.  Instead,
Plaintiff has based its first cause of action for libel on the statements that
she made on WeChat chat groups, Yelp!, Google, and Chineseinla.com.  (Compl., ¶ 22.)  Lu has not (1) pointed to any allegations in
Plaintiff’s Complaint showing that Plaintiff has based its cause of action
against her on the statements that she made to the police, or (2) presented
evidence showing that Plaintiff has based its cause of action on those
statements. 
            Thus, the court finds that Lu has
not shown that the alleged defamatory statements are privileged under Civil
Code section 47. 
The court therefore denies defendant Lu’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for defamation – libel.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Defamation – Libel Per Se 
“A libel which is defamatory of the plaintiff without the necessity of
explanatory matter, such as an inducement, innuendo or other extrinsic fact, is
said to be a libel on its face.”  (Civ.
Code, § 45a; Edward, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 790 [“Libel
per se is when the communication is defamatory without the need for explanatory
matter”].)  The elements of a defamation claim
are “(a) a publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d) unprivileged,
and that (e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special
damage.”  (Sanchez, supra,
80 Cal.App.5th at p. 763 [internal citations and quotations omitted].) 
The court finds that defendant Lu has not met her burden of
showing that the second cause of action for defamation – libel per se has no
merit because Lu has not shown that (1) the element of falsity cannot be
established, (2) the element of a false assertion of fact cannot be
established, or (3) the statements made by Lu were privileged, for the same
reasons set forth above in connection with the first cause of action for
defamation – libel.  (Compl.,
¶¶ 65-84 [alleging same facts in support of second cause of action]; Mot.,
pp. 13:9-22:7 [arguing that the defamation claims fail without differentiation
between first and second causes of action].) 
The court therefore denies defendant Lu’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for defamation – libel per se. 
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
“To prevail on a claim for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, the plaintiff must prove (1) an economic relationship
between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future
economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the
relationship; (3) (a) the defendant engaged in conduct that interfered with
that relationship and (b) the defendant’s conduct was independently wrongful –
that is, wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself;
(4) the defendant either intended to interfere with the relationship or knew
that the interference was certain or substantially certain to occur as a result
of its conduct; and (5) the defendant’s act proximately caused economic harm to
the plaintiff.”  (Drink Tank Ventures
LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 528, 537-538
[internal quotations and citations omitted].)
The court finds that defendant Lu has not met her burden to show that
the third cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage has no merit because Lu has not shown that the element requiring
her to have engaged in independently wrongful conduct that led to the
interference with an economic relationship between Plaintiff and third parties
cannot be established.  (Drink Tank
Ventures LLC, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 537-538.) 
Lu contends that (1) Plaintiff’s causes of action for libel, libel per
se, and false light fail, and (2) therefore “Plaintiff cannot show [that Lu]
engaged in conduct that was wrongful by some legal measure, i.e[.] the
defamation claims, other than the fact of alleged interference itself,” such
that this cause of action fails.  (Mot.,
p. 22:24-27.)  The court has found, for
the reasons set forth above, that Lu did not meet her burden to show that the
two causes of action for libel and libel per se do not have merit.  Thus, the court finds that (1) the third
cause of action may be supported by the wrongful conduct alleged in connection
with Plaintiff’s two causes of action for libel, and therefore (2) Lu has not
shown that this cause of action has no merit. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 86, 88 [alleging that the defendants interfered with
Plaintiff’s prospective economic relationships “by communicating and causing
false statements of fact to be communicated to the local community regrading
Plaintiff’s reputation as a pediatric dental facility”].) 
The court therefore denies Lu’s motion for summary adjudication as
to the third cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage. 
4.     Fourth
Cause of Action for False Light
“‘False light is a species of invasion of privacy, based on publicity
that places a plaintiff before the public in a false light that would be highly
offensive to a reasonable person, and where the defendant knew or acted in
reckless disregard as to the falsity of the publicized matter and the false
light in which the plaintiff would be placed.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Jackson v.
Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1240, 1264.)  “‘To establish a false light claim based on a
defamatory publication, a plaintiff “must meet the same requirements” as for a
defamation claim.’”  (Mitchell v. Twin Galaxies, LLC (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 207, 218 [internal citation omitted].) 
The court finds that defendant Lu has not met her burden of
showing that the fourth cause of action for false light has no merit because Lu
has not met her burden to show, for the reasons set forth above, that
Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action for libel and libel per se have
no merit, and therefore Lu has not shown that the false light cause of action
(which is based on the same facts and same elements) has no merit.  (Compl., ¶ 100 [“The defamatory statements
created a false light when published and would be highly offensive to a
reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position”]; Mitchell, supra, 70
Cal.App.5th at p. 218.) 
The court therefore denies defendant Lu’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for false light.
5.     Conspiracy
The court notes that Lu has also argued, in her moving papers, that
Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to “[s]ustain an [a]llegation of
[c]onspiracy on the [p]art of” Lu. 
(Mot., p. 23:1-26.)  But (1)
“[c]ivil conspiracy is not an independent cause of action[,]” and (2) Plaintiff
has not attempted to allege civil conspiracy as an independent cause of
action.  (Navarrete v. Meyer (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1291; Compl., ¶¶ 39-46 [alleging conspiracy].)  The court may not grant summary adjudication on
the portions of the Complaint that allege conspiracy as a theory of liability
against Lu and the other defendants. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty”].)  
6.     Joining
Defendants’ Joinder
The court finds that Joining Defendants have not (1) complied with
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, and (2) met their burden to show that the
first, second, third, or fourth causes of action lack merit.  The court therefore denies Joining Defendants’
joinder. 
First, the court finds that Joining Defendants did not satisfy the
procedural requirements for a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication because they did not file a separate statement in support of their
joinder. 
“The supporting papers [filed in connection with a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication] shall include a separate statement
setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c subd. (b)(1) [emphasis added]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350 [a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “must . . . be
supported by” a separate statement of undisputed material facts in support of
the motion] [emphasis added].)  Parties who
file joinders to motions for summary judgment or adjudication are also required
to support their joinder with a separate statement.  (Frazee v. Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
627, 636 [while filing a notice of joinder “may be sufficient for some purposes
[citations], it is not sufficient for purposes of the summary judgment
statute”] [internal citation omitted].)  
Thus, the court finds that Joining Defendants were required to file a
separate statement in support of their joinder to Lu’s motion for summary
judgment or adjudication.  Because they
did not do so, the court exercises its discretion to deny Joining Defendants’
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(1) [“The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate
statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground for
denying the motion”].) 
Second, even if Joining Defendants had complied with all procedural
requirements, the court finds that Joining Defendants did not meet their burden
to show that each cause of action alleged against them in Plaintiff’s Complaint
lacks merit.
As to the first cause of action for libel, second cause of action for libel
per se, and fourth cause of action for false light, Joining Defendants did not
set forth argument and legal authority establishing that the statements
attributed to them (which are different from the statements made by Lu) that
J.D. received a chemical burn and that Duan suspected that Plaintiff’s staff
were abusing children are (1) true or substantially true, (2) not defamatory,
or (3) privileged.  (Joinder,
¶ 4.)  As to the third cause of
action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage,
Joining Defendants did not show that they did not engage in wrongful conduct
that resulted in an interference with Plaintiff’s economic relationship since
they did not meet their burden to show that the first, second, and fourth
causes of action do not have merit. 
(Joinder, ¶ 5 [asserting that the third cause of action failed
because they did not engage in wrongful conduct other than posting on social
media].) 
The court also notes that Joining Defendants have submitted their own
declarations, in which (1) Duan states that he used Huang’s social media
account to make the subject post about Plaintiff, and (2) Huang states that (i)
she did not write or author any posts on social media concerning Plaintiff and
(ii) she was not aware that Duan made the two social media posts about
Plaintiff until after this action was filed. 
(Duan Decl., ¶¶ 11, 13; Huang Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  However, the Complaint also alleges that all
defendants—including Joining Defendants—“conspired with others to harm
Plaintiff’s business reputation[,]” based on, in part, their involvement with
other users. (Compl., p. 1:17-21 [defining “Defendants” to be Lu and Doe defendants
1-30]; Amendments to Compl. filed June 13, 2023 [naming Joining Defendants to
be Doe 1 (Duan) and Doe 2 (Huang)]; Compl., ¶¶ 39, 41 [Miranda W.’s review
“was posted in connection with the defamatory statements made by Defendant LU with
Defendants’ involvement”] [emphasis added], 43 [another Google user posted
a review that “was posted in connection with the defamatory statements made by
Defendant LU with Defendants’ involvement”] [emphasis added]; Compl.,
Exs. K [Miranda W. review], M [Google user review].)  
Joining Defendants did not set forth argument or evidence establishing
that they are not liable under the theory of civil conspiracy.  (Navarrete, supra, 237
Cal.App.4th at p. 1291 [civil conspiracy “is a theory of co-equal legal
liability under which certain defendants may be held liable for ‘an independent
civil wrong’ [citations] committed by others”] [internal citations omitted].)  To the extent that Joining Defendants have
relied on Lu’s motion, the court notes that Lu has stated only that she did not
discuss posting anything on social media with defendant Duan and did not address
any potential conversations with defendant Huang.[2]  (Lu Decl., ¶ 24.)  
Thus, the court finds that
Joining Defendants have not met their burden to show that Plaintiff’s first,
second, third, or fourth causes of action have no merit. 
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Yang Lu’s motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication. 
The court denies defendants
Bowen Duan and Jiyan Huang’s joinder to defendant Yang Lu’s motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.
The court orders plaintiff Seran Ng, D.M.D., Inc. to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 19, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


