  Case Number:  23SMCV00591    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Jane Doe v. Harvey
Weinstein, Case No. 23SMCV00591
Hearing date June
27, 2024
Plaintiff Jane
Doe’s Motion to Stay Discovery Pending Resolution of Parallel Criminal
Proceedings and Motion for Protective Order
 
On December 19,
2022 defendant Weinstein was convicted of raping plaintiff Jane Doe, who sues
based on that assault. Plaintiff seeks a stay of discovery pending resolution
of the criminal appeal. Plaintiff also seeks a motion for a protective order.
At
the hearing on April 25, 2024 the parties discussed that the New York criminal
conviction had been overturned, but the Los Angeles criminal appeal remained
pending. Plaintiff’s motion to stay was scheduled to be heard that day, but
after oral argument, the court continued the April 25 hearings, including the
motion to stay, to June 27, 2024. The court temporarily stayed discovery until
the continued hearing date and requested supplemental briefs.
Motion to Stay Proceedings
“The decision whether to stay civil
proceedings in the face of a parallel criminal proceeding should be made ‘in
light of the particular circumstances and competing interests involved in the
case.’ [Citation.] This means the decisionmaker should consider ‘the extent to
which the defendant's fifth amendment rights are implicated.’ [Citation.] In
addition, the decisionmaker should generally consider the following factors:
(1) the interest of the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this
litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to
plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the
proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the
management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the
interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest
of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.” Avant! Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885, quoting Keating v. Office
of Thrift Supervision (9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324. 
Doe argues the motion should be granted because a stay pending resolution of
the criminal proceedings will promote judicial efficiency and will not burden
either party. Plaintiff argues she would be prejudiced if the court denies the
stay because she would seek to use the criminal conviction to establish
liability. Further, if a civil jury finds Weinstein not liable and the
convictions are later affirmed, it would be prejudicial to Doe. 
Plaintiff contends prior to her stating her intent to seek a stay of
discovery, defendant neither noticed any depositions nor propounded written
discovery; defendant only did so after plaintiff expressed her intent to seek a
stay. Shukry Decl., ¶ 3. Doe refutes the defense argument that she failed to
timely respond to discovery and thus waived all objections. Doe timely served
objection-only responses and filed a motion for protective order based on the
pending request for stay. Shukry Decl., ¶ 6. Doe argues that without a stay,
she will be subjected to harassment by Weinstein and counsel for coming forward
as a victim, including being subjected to attempts to discover her sexual
history in violation of CCP §2017.220, as well as claims Doe fabricated the
assault and was with another man the night of the rape. Doe asserts Weinstein
failed to demonstrate he would be burdened by the stay. The court does note
that, even if discovery proceeds, plaintiff may bring motions to
quash/protective orders if she believes defendant seeks discovery that
improperly requests sexual history or other privileged information.
Weinstein
argues a stay is unjustified because (1) the law does not permit a plaintiff to
bring a lawsuit and then seek to stay it for strategic reasons; and (2)
discovery on all issues (liability and damages) will have to be conducted
regardless of whether the California criminal convictions are affirmed. Thus, a
stay will unnecessarily delay proceedings that will need to occur regardless.
Moreover, defendant argues his conviction is likely to be overturned, as there
are numerous issues on appeal.
Defendant
argues the appeal is unlikely to be resolved soon, and, even if the convictions
are affirmed, collateral estoppel will not preclude him from defending the case
and conducting discovery. Defendant asserts claim preclusion is inapplicable
when the criminal and civil case do not involve the same parties or cause of
action. DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824. See also
Samara v. Matar (2018) 5 Cal. 5th 322, 326-27; Mills v. Facility
Solutions Group, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 1035, 1048. 
On
April 25, 2024 this court stayed discovery until the motion for protective
order hearing on June 27, 2024. Plaintiff argues the outcome on appeal
determines her ability to invoke issue preclusion and/or res judicata.
Plaintiff also argued neither party would be burdened because neither had taken
depositions, and the matter was in the early stages of discovery. Shukry, ¶¶
2,7. 
Now discovery has been propounded. There is no assurance of a timely
resolution of the appellate and criminal proceedings. Although plaintiff
contends potential prejudice argues in favor of a stay, the Avant factors
must be weighed. As defendant seeks discovery to defend himself in a suit
plaintiff elected to bring, there is risk of prejudice to defendant in granting
an indefinite stay. Plaintiff does not demonstrate judicial economy is served
by an indefinite stay. 
The Trial Court Delay Reduction Act (Gov. Code §68600, et seq.) governs the
way cases move toward trial: lawyers and clients do not control the pace of
litigation (e.g., with open-ended extensions of time for answers, continuing
hearing dates, etc.). Rather, it is the court's responsibility to
“actively manage” each case and “to compel attorneys and litigants to prepare
and resolve all litigation without delay.” [Gov. Code §68607]. Judges must
engage in “active management and supervision of the pace of litigation from the
date of filing to disposition.” [CRC 3.713(c)]. The Avant factors, on
balance, do not weigh in favor of a stay. DENIED.
Motion to for Protective Order
Doe requests a stay until the motion for protective order
is heard and requests an additional 10 days to respond to discovery if the
motion to stay is denied.
Any issue decided in a prior criminal proceeding is
conclusively determined as to the parties in a subsequent civil action. Teitelbaum
Furs, Inc. v. Dominion Ins. Co., Ltd. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 601. A felony
conviction is exempt from the hearsay rule in a civil action, even if the
conviction is under appeal. Principal Life Ins. Co. v. Peterson (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 676. A judgment is not final for purposes of collateral
estoppel while it is under appeal. Abelson v. National Union Vire Ins. Co.
(1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 776, 787-788. 
Defendant Weinstein’s discovery and deposition requests to plaintiff are the
subject of Doe’s motion for stay of discovery. Doe argues that ordering
discovery is against the public interest and does not promote judicial
efficiency. Doe contends denial of the protective order would cause prejudice
because she argues Weinstein seeks to discover private information unavailable
to him under criminal discovery rules and then impermissibly use such
information in the criminal appeal. 
Doe cites Pacers, arguing a party to a parallel criminal proceeding
should not be able to obtain, through the civil proceedings, information to
which it was not entitled under criminal discovery rules. Pacers Inc v.
Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal. App. 3d 686, 690. Doe brought this suit
prior to resolution of the criminal proceedings. As such, it is not proper for
the court to prohibit discovery until the criminal conviction is no longer
subject to appeal. Doe cannot bring suit, then seek to prohibit discovery based
upon a criminal appeal which is not certain to timely resolve. In accordance
with judicial economy and the ends of justice, timely resolution is paramount.
The timeline of the criminal appeal cannot dictate the timeline of this civil action.
Doe does not cite authority that a civil defendant is estopped from disputing
liability while a prior criminal conviction arising out of the same facts is on
appeal. 
Pacers involved petitioners who asserted their
Fifth Amendment rights at depositions in a civil action. “Petitioners here are
civil defendants facing possible criminal prosecution involving the same facts
as the civil action . . . Accordingly, they had no obligation to disclose to real parties’
information they reasonably believed might be used against them in a criminal
proceeding.” Pacers,
supra, at 688-89.
Doe is not
asserting a Fifth Amendment privilege; he is facing criminal prosecution, yet
is amenable to deposition. Plaintiff must also be. Weinstein issued written
discovery to plaintiff on January 22, 2024. Doe requested additional time to
answer, which defense counsel granted. Plaintiff has yet to respond, and is
ordered to respond within 10 days. DENIED.