 Case Number:  22STLC03999    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MAHMUD REZA SIAMIZADE 
 
        
  vs.
 
STEVEN MEIER, et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  22STCL03999  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 8, 2023



 
 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On
6/15/20223, Plaintiff Mahmud Reza Siamizade (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Steven Meier, M.D. and Meier Orthopedic Sports Medicine, alleging: (1) failure
to provide medical records of Mahzar Sedghi to Plaintiffs; and (2) failure to
provide medical records of Mahzar Sedghi to Plaintiff’s attorney or agent
pursuant to Evidence Code section 1158. 
 
Now,
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claims are not based on recognized causes of actions,
and even if they are, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to state a
claim. 
 
In
determining whether a cause of action is sufficient, the Court looks to the
gravamen of the Complaint, not the titles affixed to the claims. (See e.g.
Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th
336, 347.) Health and Safety Code section 123.110(b)(1) provides a patient or
patient's personal representative with an entitlement to a paper or electronic
copy of all or any portion of the patient records that he or she has a right to
inspect.  As such, Plaintiff’s claims are
based on alleged violations of statutory law, and the fact that the titles
affixed to them are not recognized causes of action is not fatal to Plaintiff’s
Complaint.  
 
However, the
Court agrees that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support either
claim. 
 
            Health and Safety Code Section
123110 (b)(1) provides: 
 
Additionally,
any patient or patient's personal representative shall be entitled to a paper
or electronic copy of all or any portion of the patient records that he or she
has a right to inspect, upon presenting a request to the health care provider
specifying the records to be copied, together with a fee to defray the costs of
producing the copy or summary, as specified in subdivision (k). The health care
provider shall ensure that the copies are transmitted within 15 days after
receiving the request.
 
Health and
Safety Code Section 123110 (k)(1) provides:
 
Except as
provided in subdivision (d), a health care provider may impose a reasonable,
cost-based fee for providing a paper or electronic copy or summary of patient
records, provided the fee includes only the cost of the following: 
 
(A) Labor for
copying the patient records requested by the patient or patient's personal
representative, whether in paper or electronic form. 
 
(B) Supplies
for creating the paper copy or electronic media if the patient or patient's
personal representative requests that the electronic copy be provided on
portable media. 
 
(C) Postage,
if the patient or patient's personal representative has requested the copy, or
the summary or explanation, be mailed. 
 
(D) Preparing
an explanation or summary of the patient record, if agreed to by the patient or
patient's personal representative.”
 
 (Health and Safety Code Section 123110 (b)(1)
and (k)(1))
 
Here,
Plaintiff does not allege any facts which indicate he tendered a fee, as
required by Health and Safety Code Section 1231 Health and Safety Code Section
123110 (b)(1) and (k)(1).
 
Plaintiff
will be afforded an opportunity to allege such facts. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 