  Case Number:  22STCV05313    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NICHOLAS A. THOMPSON 
                           
         vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV05313 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023
 



 
Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. As such, the Court declines to award
sanctions at this time.
 
            On
2/10/2023, Plaintiff Nicholas A. Thompson (Plaintiff) filed suit against
General Motors, LLC (Defendant), alleging: (1) breach of express warranty; (2)
breach of implied warranty; and (3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to his Requests for Production
(RFPs) from Defendant.  
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant should be compelled to provide further responses to RFPs
Nos. 1-50, including documents relating to: (1) Defendant´s warranty,
repurchase and customer relation policies, procedures and practices (Request
Nos. 1-6), and (2) the specific defects that affected the Subject Vehicle,
including, Brake Defects (Request Nos. 7-17), Transmission Defects (Request
Nos. 18-28), Engine Defects (Request Nos. 29-39), and Electrical Defects
(Request Nos. 40-50).
 
After review
of the relevant discovery responses, the Court finds some of Plaintiff’s
requests to be overly broad in scope. However, the Court also finds some
objections by Defendant to be unfounded. In addition to all requested materials
related to Plaintiff’s car itself:
 
1.     
Defendant shall produce the “Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of
2019 to present.
 
2.     
Defendant shall produce any internal
analysis or investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect
in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Defendant shall produce any customer
complaints relating to defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed
by plaintiff in vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model
of the subject vehicle, for the period of 2019 to present.
 
4.     
 Defendant shall produce all documents
evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of 2019 to
present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
6.     
  All other requests for further
production are DENIED.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part, denied in part. As such, the
Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 