 Case Number:  24NWCV00806    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  C Trinidad Fuel Company vs ATM
Cash Plus, Inc., et al.
Case No.: 24NWCV00806
Hearing Date: November 19, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
 
#9
Tentative Ruling 
Counsel Jeremy J. Alberts and BWA Law Group,
APC’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. 
Counsel to give notice.
 
This a contractual fraud action. Counsel Jeremy J. Alberts
and BWA Law Group, APC and all attorneys therein, presently counsel for
Defendant and Cross-Complainant ATM Cash Plus, Inc., have filed a Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel. 
As of November 15, 2024, the motion is unopposed. 
Good cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the
grounds under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c)
provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The
client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an
illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of
conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these rules or the State
Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not
pending before a tribunal, that the member engage in conduct that is contrary
to the judgment and advice of the member but not prohibited under these rules
or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement or obligation to the member
as to expenses or fees. (2) The continued employment is likely to result in a
violation of these rules or of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work
with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be
served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's mental or physical condition renders
it difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6)
The member believes in good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that
the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted
in support of an attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2): (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form,
MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of the notice of motion and
motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-053)). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a),
(c), (d), (e).)
The attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for
withdrawal based on a breakdown of the working relationship with the client.
Counsel states that the client was served by mail at the client’s last known
address confirmed within the past thirty (30) days. 
Accordingly, the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is
GRANTED