  Case Number:  JCCP5337    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  11 AUTOZONE SUITABLE SEATING CASES (JCCP 5337)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Petition for Coordination
 
Date:                                       9/11/24
Time:                                      2:30
pm
Moving Party:                       Monica Meda and
Autozoners, LLC (collectively “Petitioners”)
Opposing Party:                    None
Department:                          11
Judge:                                    David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Petitioners’ petition for coordination is granted.  
 
The Court recommends the Los Angeles
Superior Court as the site for the coordination proceedings, and the recommended reviewing court is the
Second District Court of Appeal.
 
Petitioners’ stay request is granted.
 
BACKGROUND


Petitioners submitted a petition to the Chairperson of the
Judicial Council for pretrial coordination of the following cases (“Included
Actions”):
 
* Meda v. Autozone, Inc.
(BC683600 [Los Angeles Superior Court]); and
 
* Gonzalez v. Autozoners, LLC
(23CV411824 [Santa Clara Superior Court]).
 
The Included Actions are
overlapping representative actions brought under the Private Attorneys General
Act (“PAGA”) for alleged violations of Wage Order 7-2001’s suitable-seating
requirements.
 
The Chief Justice and Chair of the
Judicial Council issued an order assigning this Court to sit as the
coordination motion judge to determine whether the Included Actions are complex
and, if so, whether coordination is appropriate.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.         Complex Determination
 
Only “complex”
cases may be coordinated.  (Edmon &
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June
2023 Update) ¶ 12:374.5.)  A “complex”
case requires “exceptional judicial management to avoid placing unnecessary
burdens on the court or the litigants and to expedite the case, keep costs
reasonable, and promote effective decision making by the court, the parties,
and counsel.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.400(a).)  
 
In deciding whether an action is a complex case under
(a), the Court must consider, among other things, whether the action is likely
to involve:
 
(1) Numerous pretrial motions raising difficult or novel
legal issues that will be time-consuming to resolve;
 
(2) Management of a large number of witnesses or a
substantial amount of documentary evidence;
 
(3) Management of a large number of separately
represented parties;
 
(4) Coordination with related actions pending in one or
more courts in other counties, states, or countries, or in a federal court; or
 
(5) Substantial postjudgment judicial supervision.
 
(Id. at rule 3.400(b).)
 
[A]n action is provisionally a complex case if it
involves one or more of the following types of claims:
 
(1) Antitrust or trade regulation claims;
 
(2) Construction defect claims involving many parties or
structures;
 
(3) Securities claims or investment losses involving many
parties;
 
(4) Environmental or toxic tort claims involving many
parties;
 
(5) Claims involving mass torts;
 
(6) Claims involving class actions; or
 
(7) Insurance coverage claims arising out of any of the
claims . . . .
 
(Id. at rule 3.400(c).)
 
The
Los Angeles Superior Court and Santa Clara Superior Court already deemed the
Included Actions complex.  (See 8/19/24 Meda
Minute Order, p. 1; see also Asterlin Decl., Ex. C, pp. 1-2.)  Moreover, the Court is persuaded that the
cases will involve similar discovery, complicated procedural issues and
motions, and the need to manage several witnesses and a substantial amount of
documentary evidence.  These factors
satisfy rule 3.400.
 
II.        Code of Civil Procedure Section 404.1
 
Section
404.1 states that a petition for coordination should be granted if doing so
will “promote the ends of justice,” taking into account the following seven
factors: 
 
[W]hether
the common question of fact or law is predominating and significant to the
litigation; the convenience of parties, witnesses and counsel; the relative
development of the actions and the work product of counsel; the efficient
utilization of judicial facilities and manpower; the calendar of the courts;
the disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or
judgments; and the likelihood of settlement of the actions without further
litigation should coordination be denied.
 
(Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 404.1.)
 
A.        Predominating Common
Questions
 
This factor favors
coordination.  As noted above, the
Included Actions allege overlapping representative PAGA claims concerning
alleged violations of Wage Order 7-2001’s suitable-seating requirements.  Because of the overlap, common questions
predominate as to whether Defendants’ policies and practices comply with
California law, especially whether Defendants provided compliant seating to its
non-exempt hourly employees.  (See Petitioners’
Memorandum of Points and Authorities (“MP&A”), p. 9.)  These questions should be heard by one judge
to ensure uniformity. 
 
B.        Convenience of the Parties, Witnesses, and
Counsel
 
This factor favors
coordination.  Defense counsel is the
same in both cases, and there will be similar (perhaps identical) corporate
witnesses.  Managing discovery and
deciding the common issues and claims in one forum would convenience the
parties, their witnesses, and their counsel, and it would advance
efficiency.  (See id. at pp. 9-10; see
also Asterlin Dec., ¶ 16.)
 
C.        Development of the Cases and the Work
Product of Counsel
 
This factor is neutral or favors coordination.  Meda is older than Gonzalez by
more than five years.  (See Petitioners’ MP&A,
pp. 10-12.)  Motions for summary judgment
and to compel arbitration have been heard in Meda, and appeals have been
decided.  (See ibid.; see also Asterlin
Decl., ¶¶ 17-21.)  Nevertheless, the
cases appear to be in similar, early stages regarding the merits of the
representative claims (see Asterlin Decl., ¶¶ 22-24 [declaring that prior
motions and discovery in Meda focused on standing and the Plaintiff’s
individual claim]), so coordination probably would be beneficial despite the age
difference.
 
D.        Efficient
Use of Judicial Resources and Manpower
 
This factor favors coordination.  Absent coordination, separate courts would
have to duplicate case efforts on the same issues and claims.  Parallel litigation of the same issues and claims in multiple locations
would result in unnecessary consumption of judicial resources.  (See Petitioners’ MP&A, pp. 12-13; see
also Asterlin Decl., ¶¶
25-26.)
 
E.        Calendars
of the Courts
 
This factor is neutral.  Petitioners’ brief fails to address the
congestion levels of the specific, individual court calendars.
 
F.         Duplicative and Inconsistent Rulings
 
This factor favors coordination. 
Since the complaints raise the same or similar issues and claims
concerning the same alleged suitable-seating violations, there is a risk that
the courts would make duplicative or inconsistent key rulings, orders, or
judgments – with respect to both discovery and legal questions – if
coordination were denied.  (See
Petitioners’ MP&A, p. 13; see also Asterlin Decl., ¶ 27.)  The Court believes coordination would lower
this risk and advance the goal of “uniform and centralized resolution on
appeal.”  (McGhan Medical Corp. v.
Superior Court (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 804, 814.)
 
G.        Likelihood
of Settlement in the Absence of Coordination
 
This factor is neutral or favors
coordination.  The inquiry is not whether
coordination would promote settlement; it is whether settlement is expected
“without further litigation should coordination be denied.”  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 404.1.)  Neither case has settled so far.  Nothing in the record suggests that
Defendants intend to settle prior to filing discovery motions and, possibly,
merits motions.  Some additional
litigation seems likely.  (See also
Asterlin Decl., ¶¶ 28-29.)
 
H.        Summary
 
On balance, the coordination factors support
coordination.  The Court finds that the
petition for coordination should be granted.
 
III.      Site for the Coordinated Proceedings
 
Rule of
Court 3.530(b) sets forth the factors that the coordination motion judge may
consider in making a recommendation for the site of the coordination
proceedings.  The factors include: the
number of included actions in particular locations; whether the litigation is
at an advanced stage in a particular court; the efficient use of court
facilities and judicial resources; the locations of witnesses and evidence; the
convenience of the parties and witnesses; the parties’ principal places of
business; the office locations of counsel for the parties; and the ease of
travel to and availability of accommodations in particular locations.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.530(b).)  
 
Based on the
weight of the factors, the Court recommends the Los Angeles Superior
Court.  The first-filed case is pending
here, and most of the attorneys reside and have offices in Southern
California.  (See Asterlin Decl., ¶ 5.) 
The Los Angeles Superior Court’s complex program has sufficient resources and
expertise to manage the Included Actions. Also, apart from
the availability of remote appearances via LACourtConnect, it is a convenient
and accessible location.
 
The Court
recommends the Second District Court of Appeal as the reviewing appellate
court.
 
IV.       Stay
 
Petitioners’
request to stay the Included Actions pending coordination is granted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 