


[1] It appears that there are eleven spices at issue: four
types of ground cinnamon, ground cumin, ground turmeric, garlic powder, two
types of ground sage, ground cloves and poultry seasoning. 


[2] On a related point, CAG argues that FNDDS does not
provide any data on cloves and Petersen therefore instead (improperly) considered
nutmeg. Further, Petersen also considered thyme and parsley instead of sage and
poultry seasoning in view of the limited amount of data on those spices. 


[3] Defendants also note that the notice of violation
refers to the lots only as exemplars. 


[4] The court in Geffcken did not address the
scope of the allegations in plaintiff’s complaint, therefore its holding is not
relevant to CAG’s attempt to limit the scope of Defendants’ defense to the lots
specified in its complaint. Pannu offers a clear example of “apples”
versus “oranges”; a vehicle manufacturer’s expert evidence regarding roof
strength was excluded as it was based on a distinguishable vehicle with a
different roof composition. Pannu is distinguishable from this case,
where the evidence that CAG seeks to exclude is based on the same spice
products.


[5]
Kelly,
supra, adopts the test from Frye v.
United States, 293 F. 1013, 1014
(D.C.Cir. 1923) which, when faced with a novel method of proof, requires a
preliminary showing of general acceptance of the new technique in the relevant
scientific community.
 


[6]
Korsak, supra, held that although
the courts have rejected expert opinions which are based on unreliable hearsay,
nevertheless, hearsay information of a type reasonably relied upon by
professionals in the field in forming an opinion on the subject may be used to
support an expert opinion, even though not admissible in court.
 


[7] The Court notes that a separate though related issue
to the “maximum” question is the use of the “geometric mean” versus “arithmetic
mean.” In response to CAG’s motion in limine no. 8, Defendants argue that use
of the geometric mean is the most scientifically appropriate methodology in
this case. In Beech-Nut, defendants’ expert used the geometric mean on
the basis that food consumption data is not plotted in a bell-shaped curve; instead,
it has peaks due to the presence of some high consumers which will distort the
overall estimate if they are not properly accounted for. As noted above, the Court
accepted the use of the geometric mean in Beech-Nut. The Court will need
to hear further from both parties on this issue as it applies to the data in
this case.

