  Case Number:  BC665798    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS
ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Consumer Advocacy
Group v. Gel Spice Company, et al., Case No. BC 665798
Hearing Date: April
15, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motions 
 
 
1.      Grant

 
          Consumer
Advocacy Group (“CAG”) seeks to exclude evidence that Proposition 65 should not
be the law and the opinions of Nega Beru, PhD. Beru contends that food content should
be exclusively regulated by the FDA, not the states or private enforcers. 
 
          In
opposition, Defendants argue that the motion misstates their position: Instead,
they are arguing that the Prop 65 warnings are compelled speech in violation of
the First Amendment and that Prop 65 conflicts with federal law which preempts it.

 
          This
motion was filed October 25, 2022. The opposition was filed November 3, 2022.
On December 5, 2022, Judge Beaudet granted the motion of CAG for summary
judgment rejecting Defendants’ defenses that Prop 65 was preempted by federal
regulations, violated Defendants’ First Amendment rights and the Commerce
Clause to the US Constitution. The Court therefore finds that there is no need
to hear from Dr. Beru concerning these issues. 
 
 
2.      Grant

 
          CAG seeks
to exclude evidence that Prop 65 warnings are a bad idea for public health. Specifically,
they contend there is no reason to hear from Joseph Sala, a PhD in psychology,
and Beru because Prop 65 is the law and policy issues as to the effect of the
law or its wisdom are not relevant. 
 
         
Defendants argue that these experts will provide foundation for their
assertion that Prop 65 violates their First Amendment rights and is preempted
by federal law. 
 
          As
discussed above, these papers were also filed before the ruling on CAG’s motion
for summary judgment. Given that ruling, there is no need to now hear from
these witnesses where the subject of their testimony is no longer relevant. 
3.      Deny
 
          CAG seeks
to exclude testimony of Arnold Bloom, a plant biologist, on the grounds that his
testimony concerning lead “naturally occurring” in the spices at issue is not
relevant where Defendants are not asserting the defense under 27 CCR sec. 22501(a);
namely, that there is an exemption for naturally occurring lead.[1] (See
Nicolle-Wagner v. Deukmejian (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 652, 660-661 (exposure
subject to Prop 65 is knowing and intentional exposure, not exposure naturally
occurring in the environment, noting special treatment for foodstuffs despite
small amounts of naturally occurring toxins)) In addition, CAG contends that
his opinions are speculative related to lead naturally occurring in plants. 
 
          In
opposition, Defendants acknowledge that they are not relying on the “naturally
occurring” defense but clarify that they are not doing so because they contend
that it would be impossible to prove that defense precisely because the science
is lacking to distinguish between naturally occurring lead and lead that
Defendants intentionally caused to be part of the products. Defendants
therefore assert that finding them responsible to post warnings under Prop 65
would be a violation of their due process rights. Hence, Bloom’s inability to lay
foundation to provide an opinion on these issues is precisely Defendants’
point. In addition, Defendants argue his testimony is necessary to rebut CAG’s
experts to the degree they testify on this issue. 
 
          The Court
finds that the October 2, 2022 order granting summary judgment in favor of CAG
on due process issues does not address this specific due process issue, but only
other due process concerns raised by Defendants. Therefore, it appears
Defendants may permissibly assert the due process defense at least as concerns
their purported inability to claim that the lead in the spices at issue should
be deemed exempt. As a result, the inability of Gross to document the basis for
showing how lead is naturally occurring is not a basis to exclude his
testimony. The Court therefore does not need to decide whether his testimony is
necessary to rebut CAG’s experts.  
 
4.      Deny
 
          CAG seeks
to exclude testimony of blood lead level modeling, as stated in the proposed
opinion of Dr. Barbara Beck, as contrary to the relevant standard for exposure,
bodily “intake,” citing Consumer Cause v. Weider Nutrition (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 363, 368-370 (“exposure” for purposes of sec. 25249.10
means “ingest, inhale, contact via body surfaces” or “directly bringing
individuals into contact…at the first point at which the body connects with a
chemical from outside the body. It does not include what happens inside the
body to transform the chemical into something else….There is nothing…which
suggests Proposition 65 was intended to apply when a person is exposed to a
noncarcinogenic chemical which then causes a substance naturally occurring in
the body to become carcinogenic.”) CAG argues that Beck’s analysis of whether
the products here exceed the maximum
allowable dose level (“MADL”) for lead is based not on “intake’ but
“uptake.” It argues that this difference is reflected in the measurement Beck
uses; namely, ug/decileter versus ug/day. CAG relies on its expert Dr. Paul Damian’s
view that considering blood level is different than exposure because not all
that a person has contact with directly is absorbed into the blood. 
 
In opposition, Defendants contend use of
blood lead modeling to determine the MADL for lead is scientifically
appropriate and in fact mandatory under secs. 25801(a) and 25821(b) and (c) since
it was used as the basis to list lead as a carcinogen causing cancer. Further,
they argue blood lead levels are needed to determine whether lead has any
“observable effect” in the required amount for MADL under sec. 25249.10(c). In
addition, they point to the Court’s reliance on Beck’s testimony as to blood
lead modeling in Environ.
Law Found. v. Beech-Nut Nutrition (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 307 and Mateel Environ. Justice
Found. v. OEHHA
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 220, 226, fn. 6 (noting that ug/decileter
is the functional equivalent of ug/day and is just a conversion method for blood), thereby
refuting CAG’s claim it is not relevant or that blood level would be a
proverbial uptake rather than intake. Finally, they contend the chemicals at
issue in Weider is a different  situation to the lead at issue here that is
carcinogenic. The chemicals in Weider were noncarcinogenic and the issue
was the chemical reaction thereafter in the body by production of testosterone.
 
         Sargon Enterprises v. Univ.
Southern California
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 772 holds courts should not act to decide scientific
questions in acting as “gatekeeper” for admissibility purposes. The Court
therefore cannot now wade into whether Damian is correct in viewing blood level
as different than initial contact or if there may be some level of difference
of exposure if a product is not absorbed into the blood notwithstanding initial
exposure – that might be material for determining the risk of exposure for MADL.
Similarly, the Court cannot now address whether even if blood lead level monitoring
may be properly used for determining the level of exposure that this
necessarily means the same method can be used for risk of exposure. On
the other hand, the Court does not see any “leap of logic” that needs to be
made, as necessary foundation under Sargon for the opinion to now exclude
Beck from testifying. The issues on this motion related to the most appropriate
methodology are the underlying questions to be tried.  
  
5.      Deny

 
          CAG seeks
to exclude opinions relying on improper input data and unscientific methods. CAG
argues that the National
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey commissioned by the Center for Disease
Control (“NHANES”) on which Petersen and Barraj rely does not include
consumption of spices. Those responding to the survey are advised not to record
spices as “additions” to food. In addition, they contend the Food and Nutrient Database
for Dietary Studies (“FNDDS”) likewise is an inaccurate source where it does
not include ingredients that “contribute minimally to the nutrient content of
food” and Petersen assumes spices do not to add to nutrient content.[2] CAG
argues further that the NPD Group’s National Eating Trend (“NET”) data is
proprietary and therefore does not allow it to determine the validity of the
data. It is also argued that Petersen’s method of coordinating this data, through
another proprietary database, FARE, to reach a conclusion is unreproducible,
again making it impossible to scrutinize. Moreover, CAG contends this
nationwide data is significantly different to California data where 15.9% of
Californians identify as Asian compared to 1.9% nationally (and allegedly the
Asian subpopulation uses more spice than the general population.) 
 
          In
opposition, Defendants point out the following: NHANES does not include spice
as an addition because spice is already included as an ingredient in the food
itself. FNDDS does not need to include spices separately because the purpose of
this database is to convert the ingredients (including spice) already in the
food. Moreover, sec. 2582(c)(2) contemplates reliance on the data in NHANES and
FNDDS – both federal government affiliated sources, the use of which databases
was approved of in Beech-Nut, supra, as well as by other trial courts
hearing Prop 65 cases. Petersen has provided the foundation of her opinion to
CAG that is based on NET so it is not necessary to investigate that data
further or to reproduce her analysis, including her use of “surrogation” or application
of a scientific substitute where sufficient data is unavailable. In the
alternative, CAG has not shown it could not have obtained further necessary
information from NET or that the proprietary aspects of these databases is
material here. Petersen’s use of several databases to reach her opinion is
generally accepted within the scientific community. 
 
          As with
the last motion, under Sargon, courts are not to decide scientific
questions in acting as “gatekeeper” for admissibility purposes. The issues on
this motion concerning allegedly improper input data and unscientific methods
fall precisely within this prohibition. None of the issues identified rise to
the level where the court can now exclude all consideration of the various
opinions. It will be the court’s function as trier of fact to hear the reports
in question, and after consideration of cross-examination, and other witnesses,
make determinations based upon the weight the court accords the evidence. The
motion and opposition will hopefully be useful in educating the court
concerning the issues to be decided later. 
 
6.      Deny

 
          CAG seeks
to exclude testimony and documentation of irrelevant test results on the basis
that the samples Defendants selected in 2019 and 2020 for testing are not the
same spice products made available to consumers in 2016 for sale - after the
manufacturing, shipping, storage and distribution process – which is what this
case is about. CAG argues that the samples Defendants used were not from a
retailer in California but rather from ones taken after the notice of violation
and only submitted to K-Prime after Gel Spice had screened them in a different
lab. It further contends that Defendants also in the interim undertook remedial
measures in distribution that would have lowered the lead levels in the
products that were on the shelves before the notices were sent. 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that the motion presents
questions as to the foundation for the data that can be decided only at trial
after hearing from the witnesses. In any event, they assert that the motion is
unsupported by any evidence. Gel Spice’s person most knowledgeable, Andrew
Kuszynski, will confirm that the samples used were packed from the same or
similar lots to those CAG is seeking to determine if they violated lead levels.
Apparently, Gel Spice would ship products with any excessive level of lead to customers
outside California. Using a traceability exercise that is part of its Safe
Quality Food Program, premised upon the “best by” date on the label, Gel Spice can
identify the raw material from which a retailed product was sourced. In turn, Carla
Kagel, PhD, lab custodian, will be able to testify to the chain of custody for
the samples selected. Finally, they contend that extended time in the
distribution process would increase, not lower, the risk of exposure,
thereby defeating CAG’s argument.  
          The Court
cannot assess the competing claims here without consideration of the various
witnesses whose testimony will need to be heard to determine whether the tests
results are valid or relevant. CAG in any event shows no undue prejudice – as
needed to prevail on a motion in limine (see Evidence Code sec.
352) - from the Court hearing that testimony prior to deciding whether to admit
the test results.  
 
7.      Grant
 
          CAG seeks
to exclude documents not produced in discovery. Specifically, they seek to
exclude a report identified in response to a document request to Gel Spice deriving
1 part per million lead level in spices that it believes was wrongly withheld. 
 
          Defendants
oppose the motion to the extent it pertains to the above-referenced document
which they assert was attorney client privileged and therefore not deliberately
withheld. In any event, they do not intend to offer this document or the study that
was mentioned at the Gel Spice PMQ deposition. 
 
          The Court
grants this motion generally but does not need to decide whether this alleged
study or report, if documented, is privileged or wrongly withheld where it will
not be offered as evidence and CAG does not challenge the assertion of
privilege.  
 
 
8.      Deny

 
          CAG seeks
to exclude results of testing conducted on one set of lots, so-called “oranges”
where the allegations in the complaint are limited to allegedly a different set
of lots, so-called “apples.” 
 
  CAG acknowledges that this motion overlaps
with its motion no. 6, which the Court intends to
deny, as discussed above. The Court will also address
this motion as it raises similar but not the same arguments: CAG argues the specific
lots referenced in the second amended complaint are all that is at issue and
what Defendants tested are not the same products, i.e., apples and oranges and
hence irrelevant. CAG argues Defendants’ attempt to use “averaging” of samples,
based on Beech-Nut, supra, is not permitted where here there are
different lots.
 
          In
opposition, Defendants raise numerous issues, some of which go beyond the focus
of the motion. The Court will focus here only on those pertaining to the above
issue: Defendants argue they are not limited to the specific lots referenced in
the complaint reflecting a “best buy” date because part of their defense of the
case relies on other lots – which they contend emanate from the same source as
the ones CAG complains about – and do not have the level of lead requiring a
warning. They explain that the quality evaluation and testing required under FDA
regulations Prop 65 follows is performed at the source level. The best-by date
concerns freshness as food, not ingredients.  In turn, they explain why it is scientifically
appropriate to average values across source lots. Finally, they argue that
CAG’s reliance on the referenced lots may make the complaint subject to a
statute of limitations defense and would be inconsistent with the request for
an injunction which would pertain to future lots other than those alleged.[3]   
 
          The Court
is persuaded at this stage that Defendants may permissibly assert their defense
by way of offering evidence concerning lots they allege come from the same
source as the lots alleged in the pleading. CAG can then assert why this
evidence may be different from the “apples” it is concerned with. Whether the
oranges are in fact apples, or are likely have the same amount of lead in them
based on the scientific evidence presented, will be decided after hearing that
evidence. The Court cannot now determine which is which without consideration
of the evidence. Defendants are not restricted in establishing their defense to
only offering what CAG wants to present. The two principal cases the parties
discuss on this issue in the context of a motion in limine – Geffcken v.
D’Andrea (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1298, 1307 and Pannu v. Land
Rover NA (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1298, 1321 – do not support CAG’s
argument.[4] The
Court reserves on the plethora of other issues and sub-issues raised, including
the most scientifically reliable form of testing and the permissibility of using
an ethnic subpopulation to determine whether Defendants meet their safe harbor
defense. 
 
 
Defendants’
Motions   
 
          A: Deny. 
 
        Defendants seek to exclude all testimony that
“there is no safe level of lead.” They contend such testimony would be
irrelevant where CCR sec 25805(b) provides a safe harbor for MADL, which in the
case of lead the Calif. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
(“OEHHA”) has determined an observable effect to be below 0.5 ugd per day. (See
Beech-Nut, supra, at 312) As a result, if spices do not exceed the
warning threshold pursuant to Health and Safety Code sec 25249(c) Defendants
are not required to provide a warning. They contend that such testimony is
inconsistent with the regulation and hence raises a due process concern that
they might have to give a warning notwithstanding the safe harbor. 
          CAG offers testimony of Damian to
support this claim. 
 
        The Court finds that the proffered testimony is not
necessarily inconsistent with the regulations and that even if there is no safe
level as a matter of science the government can still conclude as a policy
matter that exposure level below an observable level is not so significant as
to require a warning to consumers. That said, the issue here is whether the
MADL for lead in spices exceeds that permitted not whether there is impact
below that level. To the extent that the analysis as to why lead content
exceeds the MADL is the same analysis as what led Dr. Damian to reach this
conclusion the Court will permit the testimony.
 
           B: Continued for further
clarification. 
 
        Defendants seek to exclude testimony of Plaintiffs’
expert, Stacia DeSantis, Ph.D, on the four subjects identified in the motion.
They contend DeSantis lacks the qualifications to testify on these subjects
because her background and work in biostatistics does not include study of
foods as are in question here. Her work relates to alcohol and drug dependence.
They argue her merely reading professional literature on the subjects here is
an insufficient basis to testify as an expert on these subjects. In addition,
they contend she lacks knowledge of the issues involved even if she were
qualified. Finally, they argue the expert witness declaration did not provide
the required narrative of anticipated testimony. 
          Plaintiff responds that DeSantis is a
tenured professor at the University of Texas whose academic work more than
qualifies her to testify related to the statistical studies at issue. CAG
contends her skills in evaluating studies related to alcohol and drugs crosses
over to the studies on spices. Her testimony will not just be a recitation of
what she read. It is expected that an expert like her would review professional
literature and be able to provide informed analysis that someone without that expertise
would not be able to do. CAG states her level of understanding of the studies
at issue is no less than Defendants’ expert, Dr. Barbara Petersen. Finally, it
argues Defendants are not prejudiced by the declaration provided because they
took her deposition and know what her opinions will be. 
          Defendants reply that DeSantis has
not been qualified by a court as an expert on this subject before. Further, the
data analysis here involving many food items is different than studies of one
product - as DeSantis is familiar with - and hence she is unqualified to
testify. 
 
        The Court does not know what opinions precisely
DeSantis intends to give. The Court will need to know those opinions and what
foundation she relies on prior to ruling. It may be she can provide information
that will assist the court concerning statistical methodology used in the
subject reports based on her knowledge as a biostatistician; even if she had no
experience with foods that likely would not preclude her testimony and merely
go to the weight of her testimony. On the other hand, the Court questions her
qualifications to testify on the underlying substance of the level of use of
spice, including for example as to spice consumption of subpopulations or
health benefits. 
 
          C. Deny. 
 
        Defendants seek to exclude testimony and exposure
assessments based on Damian’s analysis as a toxicologist of internet recipes.
Thy contend that these recipes are an inappropriate source for determining
rates of intake of spice by average consumers for purposes of 27 CCR sec.
25821(c)(2). They argue that the regulations indicate the source should be
based on categories of products reflected in reports “such as” the US Dept. of
Agriculture Research Report, the predecessor to NHANES - on which Defendants’
expert Dr. Barbara Petersen relies. They argue these recipes, by contrast, are
random and do not provide evidence to show actual consumption of these recipes
by consumers, level of consumption, representativeness of these foods to
average use of foods and other considerations that would need to be factored in
to ultimately determine intake levels. 
           CAG argues in opposition that it
does not have access to the costly proprietary NHANES report, that the
regulations do not require the use of the NHANES report and that the motion
does not provide a basis for inadmissibility of the recipes (which provide an
alternative source to determine levels of lead in a typical array of foods and
one more likely to be used by consumers than those in the NHANES report). 
          In reply, Defendants argue that use
of the recipes alone will still not provide sufficient facts to draw the
conclusion required as to average intake levels and that Dr. Damian’s opinion
will therefore be speculative and inadmissible under Sargon, supra, at
770. 
 
        The Court finds the recipes alone likely do not
provide sufficient data for Dr. Damian to reach his conclusions for the reasons
Defendants argue. However, the “goal of trial court gatekeeping is
simply to exclude “clearly invalid and unreliable” expert opinion” (Sargon, supra, at
772). The Court does not find that his reliance on the recipes would be
improper or that he cannot use other data as an additional foundation for his
opinions. Further, the Court does not find that the recipes are themselves
inadmissible at this point such that they could not be used to provide “some”
evidence of lead levels in various foods - to the extent they provide that
information. Finally, it may be that CAG is in any event able to use the
recipes as rebuttal evidence after Defendants rely on the NHANES report to the
extent the latter is an inadequate source for determining intake levels. Significantly,
the experts on both sides relied on NHANES in Beech-Nut, supra.

 
          D.  Deny. 
 
       Defendants seek to exclude the expert testimony of
Gagik Melikyan, a chemistry professor, from testifying as to a method of
exposure calculated based on retention of lead over time. They contend this
scientific methodology does not meet the requirements of People v. Kelly
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 24 in that it is novel and has not been generally accepted as
reliable in the scientific community.[5]
Melikyan has not published a paper on this methodology. The study he relies on
concerns exposure to lead in the air. In addition, he has no qualifications as
a chemist to give an opinion about how humans retain lead that is an issue of
toxicology. 
 
       CAG argues in opposition that the methodology is not
novel, the time weighted averaging model derived from a 1976 paper that
Defendants find no fault with and publication of a paper is not required where
Melikyan has a long history working in both chemistry and related areas,
including as to Proposition 65 issues. CAG also argues these issues go to the
weight his opinion should be given, not its admissibility. In reply, Defendants
argue the reliability of testing methods is to be assessed by the scientific
community, not a trial judge, in the first instance. (Kelly, supra, at
31) 
 
       There is less need for a motion in limine in a bench
trial, as here, versus a jury trial. The level of potential prejudice from
hearing the testimony is significantly reduced. That said, the Court still
needs to assure that the trial is kept to relevant testimony. Admissibility of
Melikyan’s opinions is a close call. On the one hand, the 1976 paper may not be
sufficient for making his methodology be deemed reliable by the scientific
community. It does not appear that any court has found him qualified as an
expert in Proposition 65 cases notwithstanding his continued work in this area.
In addition, his opinion as a chemist seems peripheral to the toxicity issue
here. On the other hand, his use of averaging levels of exposure by retention
does not seem novel and Defendants have not shown why his opinions would be
unreliable. As explained in the opposition, the underlying theory seems to make
sense. Further, his opinion as a scientist may be useful in evaluating other
expert testimony and understanding the chemical makeup of lead may help the
Court understand the significance of toxicity levels. 
          In summary, the Court will allow voir
dire prior to hearing his opinion. Again, the Court does not resolve
scientific controversies (Sargon, supra, at 772). The Court needs to hear other
expert opinions on whether his opinions would be reliable; per Kelly, it
is appropriate for the Court to assign the task of determining the
reliability of Melikyan’s technique to members of the relevant scientific
community (Kelly, supra, at 31). Further, it is unclear at this time - solely based on review
of the motion - what the accepted practice now is related to toxicity studies
to know how far this opinion might vary from accepted methods. Finally, again,
where Defendants have the burden of proof during this phase of trial this
opinion might still come in on some level by way of rebuttal. 
 
          E. Deny. 
       
 By this motion, Defendants seek to exclude three surveys conducted by
Facts and Figures, Inc., and its principal, Walter Meneses, concerning use by
South Asian and Middle Eastern consumers in Los Angeles of turmeric, dated July
2, 2021, February 25, 2022 and April 14, 2023. They contend the faulty design
of these surveys renders their results meaningless. As a result, they assert
CAG should not be able to use these results to artificially inflate exposure
levels to this subpopulation as a way to show Defendants violated Proposition
65 by not warning them of risks of exposure - as they seek to do through an
expert opinion of DeSantis. They point to the credence given in Korsak v.
Atlas Hotels (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1516, 1524 to the use of information
of a type reasonably relied upon by professionals in the field in forming an
opinion.[6]
Specifically, they question the conclusion these groups use turmeric more than
the average person and do so for alleged health benefits. In addition, they
argue the last survey should not be considered as it was provided to Defendants
only after close of discovery, submission of the exhibit list and filing of the
original motion in limine on this issue. 
 
 
       Defendants raise a  number of issues: 1. What
countries of origin constitute the subpopulation. 2. How people looked at
certain LA supermarkets in terms of their place of origin. 3. Whether the
sample group is representative of this subpopulation. 4. Whether this data can
be extrapolated statewide to the population in general. 5. The appropriateness
of the questions asked of those surveyed, including as to frequency, amount
used, whether powder or ground labs as to use for health benefits. 6. Not using
a control group. 
 
       In opposition, CAG argues that the surveys support
its contention related to high level of use of turmeric by South Asians and
doing so for health reasons. CAG asserts that Meneses will testify at trial
that the surveys were conducted according to generally accepted standards of
market research based on his lengthy experience in market research. The
specific countries included in the group are not needed because a survey does
not need to have the sample be perfectly representative. Validity is tested by
what is intended by the survey and here the survey was not intended to have the
purpose Defendants are asserting. (Lockyer v. RJ Reynolds Tobacco (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1276; “statistical validity is a measure of whether the
test is suitable for its intended purpose”) Those responding to the survey
self-identified as South Asian. The sample does not have to be extrapolated statewide
or to an average consumer because CAG is seeking only the Court’s consideration
of elevated exposure to a subpopulation, as contemplated by 27 CCR sec.
25721(d)(2). The samples are relevant under Evid. Code sec. 210 because they
tend to dispute the findings of Barbara Petersen as to use of exposure to an
average consumer, for purposes of sec. 25821(c)(2). Defendants have not shown
how any lack of precision in the questions should make the surveys inadmissible
even if the court can consider what weight they should receive. (Sargon,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at 772; “[t]he court must not weigh an opinion's
probative value [in determining admissibility]...Rather, the court must simply
determine whether the matter relied on can provide a reasonable basis for the
opinion or whether that opinion is based on a leap of logic or conjecture.”) No control group was required
because the surveys did not purport to perform an experiment wherein a control
group might be necessary. Finally, there is no prejudice to Defendants in
consideration of the final report where any issues with that report are of the
same nature as the earlier reports that they did have and given they have had
the final report for over a year before trial. 
 
       The Court concurs with CAG that the surveys are
relevant to its response to Defendants’ evidence in support of its meeting its
burden in this phase of trial. Defendants have not presented any fundamental
basis to not allow CAG to put on this evidence in support of its case. This is
not to say, however, that Defendants have not raised significant issues in
terms of what weight the court should give these surveys (to the extent even
relevant depending on how the Court determines the applicability of the ethnic subpopulation
analysis). Finally, Defendants have not identified specific prejudice from the Court
now considering the third survey where the issues with it may be the same as
with the earlier surveys which Defendants are already prepared to address. The
Court will consider this issue again if at trial it develops that there was
some discovery that Defendants would have otherwise undertaken that is material
to how the Court might view the survey. 
 
          F. Grant. 
 
        Defendants seek to preclude Meneses from testifying
as an expert witness. They contend he was not designated as an expert and hence
may not give opinions based on the surveys he conducted. Defendants are
concerned that in other proceedings he has sought to do so. They do not contest
his testifying as a percipient witness related to conducting the surveys. They
request that the Court draw the line in the grey area as between testimony as
an expert and as a percipient witness. 
 
        CAG does not seek to call Meneses as an expert
witness. Instead, CAG will call who it has designated as an expert to testify
what conclusions to draw from the surveys. Meneses will only testify to how he
conducted the surveys. 
 
         The Court agrees there may be potential
ambiguity as to the permissibility of his testimony related to whether his
surveys were conducted according to generally accepted methods for surveys.
Defendants’ motion in limine E raised numerous issues still to be decided
concerning the methods used for collecting the data in the surveys. CAG can
seek testimony from Meneses necessary to establish the foundation for
admissibility of the surveys, including defending against any objections to
their admissibility - such as that the methods used made the surveys unreliable
and or were of the type that they should not be received into evidence.
However, this testimony would not need to reach into the different issue of
whether the data in the surveys or the compilation of that data should be a
foundation for CAG’s designated expert to be able to rely upon for purposes of
presenting evidence of exposure levels. 
 
          G. Deny
 
       Defendants seek to exclude evidence based on U.S.
Food and Drug Administration Reference Amounts Customarily Consumed (“RACC”) or
Fatsecret as sources for determining rate of intake of lead for Proposition 65
exposure assessments. RACC is for the purpose of identifying a serving size for
development of caloric and nutrient content. In this way, consumers can compare
nutrient content for different foods, not how much the average consumer intakes
products daily. 21 C.F.R. Sec. 101.12(b), which governs RACC, allegedly points
to NHANES data to determine exposure - contrary to the way Plaintiffs’ expert
Damian is using it. Similarly, Fatsecret is an online “weight loss community”
that allows unidentified users to track their nutrition and weight goals.
Neither source they therefore argue is a matter that an expert would
“reasonably rely upon” in toxicology for exposure assessments. (Korsak,
supra) Contrary to what CAG’s expert Melikyan understood, Fatsecret is not
affiliated with the FDA but is a company promoting a weight loss and nutrition
service. 
 
        In opposition, CAG asserts that Defendants’ expert
Petersen likewise uses RACC in the same fashion. Damian’s use of RACC is by way
of rebuttal. CAG also disputes that the regulations dictate use of the NHANES
data and points to language in sec. 25821(c)(2) referencing use of NHANES data
to calculate anticipated rate of exposure to chemicals causing toxicity “unless
more specific and scientifically appropriate data are available.” Concerning
Fatsecret, CAG indicates it provides useful data that NHANES does not show – namely,
how much consumers intake by the size of portions, which negates the need to work
backwards based on food logs to estimate what the spice content of the food
might be. CAG argues Fatsecret is heavily relied upon by consumers and more
accurate than the NHANES data. Moreover, use of these different sources is
consistent with Prop 65 which “envisions a case-by-case approach which takes
into account the totality of the quantitative risk assessment evidence
presented.” (Beech-Nut, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at 328) Notably, sec.
25821(c)(2) does not require data exactly determining exposure or it would not
have allowed data to be focused on the food category as opposed to the brand
(given that this might make obtaining relevant data very difficult.) Finally,
CAG argues that it would be improper to exclude expert opinions based on these
sources because the opinions may be based on more than one source, not just
these- including, in Damian’s case, FDA data. These issues go to the weight to
be given to the data, not its admissibility. 
          In reply, Defendants argue Damian
admitted that he relied on more reliable sources than these in reaching his
opinions. They also indicate Petersen was using the RACC data only as a
hypothetical in rebuttal to show that, even if that data was used, the products
would still fall within the safe harbor level. Petersen does not intend to rely
on the RACC data if the Court excludes it. Defendants argue this data is not a
more scientifically appropriate source than NHANES and therefore should not be
admitted as it would allow resulting opinions to be speculative. That Fatsecret
is used frequently does not mean it is more scientific than the government
study or that it identifies average consumption. 
          The Court finds that the regulations
do not mandate use of the government study. Whether these other databases
provide pertinent information is unclear where the Court does not yet know what
the limitations may be with the NHANES data. The use of more than one study is
consistent with the Prop 65 approach articulated in Beech-Nut, supra.
The Court also cannot now exclude opinions relying on these sources as it
appears Damian, for example, relied on multiple sources - which may in
combination provide sufficient foundation for his conclusions. The Court does
not read the opposition to suggest CAG agrees that it will not be using these
sources or that use of these studies would not be relevant. Damian merely
answered candidly at his deposition that he was using several sources given the
weaknesses of each. 
 
          H. Deny 
          Defendants seek to exclude evidence that
the level of lead in sage and clove products exceeds the safe harbor limits.
The basis of the motion is Damian’s deposition testimony wherein he states that
as to sage and clover “they come in at or under the MADL based on the average
amount consumed per serving under the recipe analysis, but they – they exceeded
based on the maximum amount consumed per serving based on the recipe analysis.”
Defendants argue that Prop 65 is concerned with assessment of the reasonable
use of each product by the “average” consumer. Here, Damian appears to admit
that usage by the average consumer falls within the safe harbor limits. 
          In opposition, CAG argues lead levels
are still relevant because Damian testified that they exceed the MADL based on
the “maximum” amount consumed per serving. Damian used the maximum amount to
better represent ethnic subpopulations that use more spice per serving. CAG
argues this Court has already determined that ethnic subpopulation analysis is
relevant under secs. 25821(c)(2) and 25721(d)(2). Hence, CAG argues that the
Court should hear its case as to why the maximum use is more appropriate than
the average use. CAG argues NHANES provides only one set of data whereas the
Court should consider that some subpopulations use it more frequently and in
greater amount and that the data should reflect this range of use. In addition,
it  contends in any event that it is not
proper to dispense with its case by a motion in limine. 
         In reply, Defendants argue the
“maximum” amount conflicts with the regulations, which provides for assessing
the “average” use. They dispute that the Court has ruled already that ethnic
subpopulations can be used as a basis to deviate from the regulations. Further,
CAG does not explain how review of recipes establishes a “maximum” use to
assess – as argued on another motion in limine. 
          The Court finds that on June 16, 2022
Judge Beaudet (who was previously assigned this case) adopted her tentative
ruling denying the motion of Defendants for determining the applicability of
secs. 25821(c)(1) and 25721(d)(2) herein. On page 5, the Court notes in italics
concerning the interpretation of sec. 12721(d)(2) in the Final Statement of
Reasons of OEHHA: “Certain subpopulations need to be addressed where
circumstances involve particular products or environmental conditions which may
pose a possible exposure risk to a distinct group of people.” In turn, on p. 6,
after noting that in New York there appears to be consideration of exposure on
ethnic lines, the Court states: 
“Lastly,
Defendants seek an order that section 25721(d)(2)’s use of the phrase “certain
subpopulations in a geographic area” does not support using ethnic
subpopulations for exposure assessments under either sections 25721(d)(2) and
25821(c)(2), or any other Prop 65 regulation. But Defendants cite to no legal
authority indicating that ethnic subpopulations may not be considered.
Moreover, whether there is available and admissible data pertaining to a
certain subpopulation in this case is a different question than the
applicability of section 257219d)(2), and is thus outside the scope of this
briefing.”   
In view of the foregoing, the undersigned finds that the Court
has not already determined that ethnic subpopulation analysis is relevant under
secs. 25821(c)(2) and 25721(d)(2). The Court has determined only that the
regulations do not rule out consideration of subpopulations if there is reason
to do so. For example, women may use a product that men do not and hence there
may be reason to assess exposure only in women. Alternatively, it may make
sense to assess exposure of a geographic subpopulation in proximity to a source
of lead exposure as opposed to the general population. The Court has not
determined to date whether there is reason to assess lead exposure along ethnic
lines or if there is reason to do so whether there is data to assess exposure
to an ethnic subpopulation. OEHHA has not taken a position as to whether
averaging exposures to lead is appropriate when performing evaluations under
Prop 65 (Beech-Nut, supra, at 317).
          Therefore,
at least at this time, the Court cannot conclude that it is permissible under
the regulations for Damain to have used the “maximum” level of exposure over
the “average” level of exposure. 
          On the other
hand, it may be that CAG can make a case that there is reason to assess an
ethnic subpopulation and that therefore use of a maximum level of exposure is a
more appropriate measure of assessment. By the same token, however, it is not
clear why consideration of average exposure is less appropriate than maximum exposure.
Presumably, if some people use more spice than those on average there are also others
who use less spice than on average. It may be for this reason that
consideration of what an average person would use is the most appropriate. In
any event, the Court cannot now exclude evidence of exposure to clove or sage
given the Court has not determined what measure of exposure to use. The Court
also notes that in Beech-Nut, the trial court rejected, and the Court of
Appeal affirmed, plaintiff’s expert’s use of the 85th percentile of the
NHANES database (which is also a “maximum”-type approach, as the 85th
percentile is the high end of the distribution of the food consumption data).Instead,
the court accepted defendants’ expert’s average consumption per day calculations
based on the geometric mean (Beech-Nut, supra, at 322).
[7]
 
          I. Deny 
          Defendants seek to exclude expert
testimony regarding turmeric consumption as a dietary supplement or for
medicinal use. They contend that where turmeric is used as a supplement, it is
not food but a drug and is therefore regulated by the FDA which uses a
different measure of assessing exposure. 
          In opposition, CAG states it is not
considering use of turmeric as a drug but as health supplement and that this is
relevant to the rate of intake that is part of the exposure analysis. In other
words, if a consumer uses turmeric regularly due to its perceived added health
benefits this might increase the rate of intake and the subsequent exposure to
any lead in the turmeric. 
          Defendants do not explain why merely
because turmeric may also be regulated as a drug when used as a health
supplement that this means it is not also regulated as food or that Prop 65
does not apply, however used. Moreover, there is some logic to CAG’s argument
that perceived health benefits may be a reason that Petersen’s analysis based
on an average person’s use might be inadequate if the rate of exposure does not
already factor in regular use for this reason.  
 
 
          J.   Grant 
          Defendants seek an order that Plaintiff’s
claim is limited to exposure in utero and to adults of childbearing age and to
exclude irrelevant exposures and health effects. Defendants argue that Prop 65
is concerned only with two health effect endpoints: cancer and reproductive
toxicity. (27 CCR sec. 25249.6) As concerns the latter, the focus is on male
and female reproductive systems and developmental effects from in utero
exposure. Alleged postnatal exposure affecting a child is not considered
developmental toxicity for these purposes. (Mateel, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th
at 233, 234) 
          CAG agrees but clarifies that
Damian’s testimony concerns the effects of prenatal exposure as opposed to
postnatal exposure. 
 
          K. Grant  
          Defendants seek to exclude all
documents not produced in response to discovery requests. 
          CAG opposes the motion in part on the
basis that it is not specific to any document that it purportedly did not
produce in response to discovery or is mere inuendo that Meneses withheld
documents. 
        In reply, Defendants confirm the motion
is merely precautionary. 
 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


