  Case Number:  21STCV18035    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
Hearing Date: 9/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV18035 BENJAMIN LEISER
vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES 
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendants City of Los
Angeles and Shelter Clean, Inc.
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard 
When a party moves to
amend a pleading, “courts generally should permit amendment to the complaint at
any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial. [Citations.]” (Melican
v. Regents of University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175.) In
ruling on this type of motion, prejudice to another party is the main concern.
(Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) The type of
prejudice the court is to be concerned with should be something beyond simply
having to cope with a potentially successful new legal theory of recovery that
has been revealed during discovery. (Ibid.) Instead, the court should
look for delays in the trial date, loss of critical evidence, extensive
increase in the costs of preparation and other similar circumstances that
create prejudice to another party. (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at
p. 176.) 
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324,
subd. (a)(1).)¿ A motion to amend a pleading must
also be supported by a declaration which specifies the following: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)¿ 
Discussion
On May 13, 2021,
Plaintiff Benjamin Leiser filed the initial complaint against the City of Los
Angeles, alleging injuries from a fall caused by a raised portion of the bike
lane on September 18, 2020, located in the 14200 block of Bessemer St., Van
Nuys, CA 91401. On June 29, 2023, the complaint was amended to include
Defendant Shelter Clean Services, citing negligence in the maintenance of the
bikeway. Plaintiff now seeks to amend the complaint again, proposing a new
(third) cause of action for “FAILURE TO WARN, NEGLIGENT FAILURE TO MAINTAIN,
AND GROSS NEGLIGENCE BY PUBLIC ENTITY [Gov. Code § 831.7(c)(1)]” against the
City of Los Angeles, along with claims for punitive damages against Defendant
Shelter Clean, Inc.
The City filed an
opposition, arguing that the motion for summary judgment, based on trail
immunity, would encompass Plaintiff’s new cause of action for the city’s
failure to warn, failure to maintain, and gross negligence under Gov. Code §
831.7(c)(1). If this is the case, then the pending MSJ would not be
"disturbed by the proposed motion to amend" as suggested by the
Defendant, since the current MSJ would address the proposed amendments.
Consequently, there would be minimal prejudice as the proposed amendment would
not create a moving target for the MSJ. Furthermore, The City has not provided
any legal authority to suggest that the complaint cannot be amended while a
motion for summary judgment is pending. “Courts generally should permit
amendment to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including
trial” (Melican v. Regents of University of California (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 168, 175).
Defendant Shelter Clean
Services opposed the motion, challenging Plaintiff’s ability to meet the
pleading standards for punitive damages. However, this issue is more
appropriately addressed through a fully briefed demurrer or motion to strike,
should Defendant choose to pursue one. "The preferable practice would be
to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency
through demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings, or other appropriate
proceedings" (California Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal. App. 3d 274, 281). Furthermore, although Defendant argues that the
case would become more complex as a result of the amendment, this complexity
arises from having to address Plaintiff’s potentially successful theory of
recovery, which is not the type of prejudice that should be considered by the
court.
Plaintiff attached a
proposed pleading, and a declaration specifying (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary; (3) when the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier. All the requirements of Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324 have been met. In recognition of California's liberal stance
on granting amendment, the motion is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 