 Case Number:  22STCV11103    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 9/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV11103 CRISTINA VACA vs
COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION
Moving Party: Defendant Costco Wholesale
Corporation
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED 
 
Background
This case arises from a
slip and fall incident on April 2, 2020, at a warehouse owned and operated by
Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation ("Costco"). Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint against Costco, alleging negligence and premises
liability due to slipping on a liquid substance at the entrance of the
warehouse. Defendant now moves for summary judgment, arguing that Plaintiff
cannot demonstrate that Costco had actual or constructive notice of the alleged
dangerous condition. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
Legal Standard 
In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis:
“(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the
moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
        “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If
the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even
if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still
defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
 To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It
is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
        “Once
the defendant … has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
        The
court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of
that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor
may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
Notice
 “In order to establish liability on a
negligence theory, a plaintiff must prove duty, breach, causation and damages.”
(Ortega v Kmart Corporation (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) “No inference
of negligence arises based simply upon proof of a fall upon the owner’s floor.”
(Vaughn v. Montgomery Ward & Co. (1950) 95 Cal. App. 2d 553, 556.) A
customer injured by a dangerous condition in a store may recover damages
against the owner only if the owner was somehow negligent. (Ortega v Kmart
Corp., supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1205.) This is true no matter whether a claim
is framed as negligence or premises liability. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158 (noting elements for both claims "are the
same").) California law is clear in providing that a commercial premises
owner such as Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation is not an insurer of the
safety of its patrons. (Ortega v Kmart Corp., supra, 26 Cal.4th at
1205.) The owner of a premises is not negligent and is not liable for an injury
suffered by a plaintiff on the premises which resulted from a dangerous
condition of which the owner had no knowledge, unless the condition existed for
such a length of time that if the owner had exercised reasonable care in
inspecting the premises the owner would have discovered the condition in time
to remedy it or to give warning before the injury occurred. (Williams v
Madison Square Garden Co. (2021) 2021 Cal. Super. LEXIS 27399 *5.) If the
evidence does not support a reasonable inference that the dangerous condition
lasted long enough to be discovered in the exercise of reasonable care, a court
may resolve the issue as a matter of law. (Ortega v Kmart Corp., supra,
26 Cal.4th at 1207.)
Initial Burden
In meeting its initial
burden, Defendant has introduced evidence showing the following:
·       
This action arose from an alleged slip
and fall incident on April 2, 2020 at approximately 2:03PM, at a Costco
warehouse in Alhambra, California. (Exhibit F.) 

·       
Plaintiff fell as she was walking
towards the entrance/exit of the warehouse. (DiGiacomo Dec., ¶ 3.)
·       
Plaintiff contends that she slipped on
spilled clear shampoo, bodywash, or other substance on the floor that caused
her to fall. (Plf’s Depo. 28:20-29:11.)
·       
Plaintiff did not see the liquid
substance on the ground before the incident, how the substance got onto the
ground, and how long it was on the ground for prior to her fall. (Plf’s Depo 28:3-15.)
·       
The Daily Floor-Walk / Safety Inspection
sheet on the date of the incident, April 2, 2020, shows that a Costco employee
with last name “Garcia” and initial “EG” completed a daily floor-walk / safety
inspection on April 2, 2020, between 1:05 p.m. and 1:37 p.m., approximately 26
minutes before Plaintiff slipped at 2:03 p.m. The inspection sheet does not
show a record of unresolved hazard in the area at issue.  (Exhibit G; DiGiacomo Dec., ¶ 7)
·       
Plaintiff cannot identify any facts or
evidence to support her allegation that Costco had actual notice or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition which caused the subject
incident. (Plaintiff, Cristina Vaca’s Responses to Special Interrogatories Nos.
4, 29-30, Exhibit D; Plf’s Depo. 28:3-19.)
Defendant has met its
initial burden in showing that that it maintained a reasonable inspection
system, and the inspection did not reveal any hazard in the area in question.
Furthermore, the liquid substance on the floor had not been present long enough
for it to be discovered by a reasonable inspection system. Plaintiff did not
file an opposition and therefore did not raise a triable issue of fact. Thus,
the present MSJ is GRANTED.
 
JOINDER ON MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Moving Party: Defendant Costco Whole Membership
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED 
 
Defendant
Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc. filed a joinder to Costco Wholesale Corporation's
motion for summary judgment, arguing that it is solely responsible for
membership services and does not have any possessory or ownership interest in
the subject warehouse, nor does it have any control over the warehouse's
employees.
 
The
existence of a duty of care is a question of law for the court to decide. (Ann
M. v. Pac. Plaza Shopping Ctr., 6 Cal. 4th 666, 674 (1993).) A defendant
cannot be held liable for the dangerous condition of property that it does not
own, possess, or control. (Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985)
38 Cal.3d 112, 134.) “Where the absence of ownership, possession, or control
has been unequivocally established, summary judgment is proper.” (Id.)
 
·       
Costco Membership is a separate
corporate entity from Costco Corporation. (Declaration of Leigh Ann Ruijters ¶
4.) 
·       
Costco Membership is an entity
created to receive membership dues. (Ruijters Decl. ¶ 5.) 
·       
Costco Membership has no
responsibility whatsoever relating to the operation of the subject warehouse.
(Ruijters Decl. ¶ 6.)
·       
No Costco Membership employees work
at the subject warehouse. (Ruijters Decl. ¶ 7.) 
·       
Costco Membership does not supervise
any of the employees that work at the subject warehouse. (Ruijters Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Defendant
Costco Membership has shown that it does not own, possess, or control the
subject warehouse and therefore owes no duty of care to Plaintiff. Plaintiff
did not file an opposition and thereby failed to rase a triable issue of fact.
Thus, Costco Membership’s MSJ is GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 