 Case Number:  22STCV02353    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE
Hearing Date: 9/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV02353 JANNETH OLIVERA
vs AMANDA PORTOBANCO, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Lyft 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE IS GRANTED
IN PART
 
Background
On January 20, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case. Defendants Amanda Portobanco and Indian
Harbor Insurance have been dismissed. Only Lyft Inc. and Defendant David Jibri
Ritcherson-Bell ("Bell") remain. The trial is currently set for
November 1, 2024.
On August 13, 2024,
Defendant Bell served a Second Amended Notice to take the Plaintiff’s
deposition scheduled for August 29, 2024. Approximately one week prior to this
date, Plaintiff’s counsel informed defense counsel that Plaintiff had undergone
additional medical treatment, including back surgery, which had not been
previously disclosed in Plaintiff’s discovery responses. As a result, the
parties agreed to remove Plaintiff’s deposition from the calendar to allow time
to identify and subpoena all relevant medical records and billing before
Plaintiff’s rescheduled deposition.
Furthermore, the
parties have been meeting and conferring regarding the selection of a mediator
and setting a mediation date—likely in January 2025, due to the additional
discovery required. The parties all stipulated to a 6-month continuance.
Discussion
Defendant learned of
Plaintiff’s newly alleged treatment around August 22, 2024. Defendant has not
demonstrated to the court why it cannot obtain Plaintiff’s relevant medical
records and complete Plaintiff’s deposition in short order, nor has it justified the need for an additional 6 months to
complete such limited discovery. Additionally, the parties have not confirmed
any mediation date, only suggesting a possible date in January 2025. The
mediation appears speculative and tentative at this point. The court does not
find good cause to continue the trial for an additional six months. Given the court’s experience with continuous injury, as alleged in
this case, there will always be possibility for new or continuous treatments.
The court does not envision continuing the trial indefinitely. Therefore, the
court will grant only an approximately 90-day continuance, sufficient time to complete the
limited discovery needed and, potentially to conduct mediation. 
The new Trial Date is
set for February 3, 2025,
at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to January 20, 2025, at
10:00 a.m. All case related deadlines will follow the new trial date. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.


