  Case Number:  24VECV04570    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  107 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
 
DEPARTMENT 107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



Tag Holdings Corporation,
  
        
  v.
 
David Benzaken, et al.,
 


 Case
  No.:  24VECV04570
 
 Motion to Quash Service of Summons
 
 



 
Tentative Ruling:    (1) Deny Motion;
(2) Deny Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions
 
 
I.              
BACKGROUND
 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff Tag Holdings
Corporation (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants David Benzaken,
Basad Corporation, Sapir Razla, Raz Razla, and Does 1 through 10, alleging
causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; and (2) indemnification.
 
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of
service showing Defendant David Benzaken (“Defendant”) was served by substituted
service on October 23, 2024, at 471 Blair Road, Avenel, NJ 07001 (the “Location”).
(Proof of Service filed 10/25/24.)
 
On December 6, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to
quash service of summons (the “Motion”). On December 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On December 26, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. On December 27,
2024, Plaintiff filed a response to Defendant’s evidentiary objections.
 
II.           
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant requests this court take judicial notice
of the proof of service of summons that Plaintiff filed on October 25, 2024.
(Request for Judicial Notice p. 2.)
 
The court need not take judicial notice of a
document that is part of the case file. Thus, Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is denied.
 
III.        
PLAINTIFF’S
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff raises five objections to evidence
submitted with Defendant’s Motion.
 
This court sustains the following objections
because Defendant’s counsel lacks personal knowledge of these matters. (See
Evid. Code § 702.)
 
1.   
Objection No. 2, Motion to Quash,
page 3, lines 10-11, stating “Plaintiff’s process server continued to attempt
personal service only at the Location a total of four time.”
 
2.   
Objection No. 3, Motion to Quash,
page 3, lines 12-14, stating, “Plaintiff never attempted to serve Defendant at
his residence or at another address which is Defendant’s usual place of
business, so that service of process would be proper under C.C.P. §415.20.” 
 
This court also sustains the following objections
because they are hearsay. (See Evid. Code §
1200.)
 
1.   
Objection No. 1, Motion to Quash,
page 3, lines 4-7, stating: “When Plaintiff attempted personal service on
Defendant in October 2024 at 471 Blair Road, Avenel, NJ 07001 (“Location”),
Plaintiff’s process server was informed repeatedly that the Location was not
Defendant’s usual place of business and directed to serve Defendant instead at
his residence.”
 
2.   
Objection No. 4, Motion to Quash,
page 5, lines 5-9, stating: “As discussed more fully infra, Plaintiff’s efforts
to serve Defendant fail to comply with C.C.P. §415.20 for substitute service
because the Location is not Defendant’s usual place of business, Plaintiff was
advised there was a better and Code-compliant address at which to serve
Defendant, and the person with whom the summons and complaint were left does
not have the type of ‘close connection’ to Defendant required by statute.”
 
3.   
Objection No. 5, Motion to Quash,
page 5, lines 20-25, stating: “On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s process server
was informed by a receptionist at the Location that Defendant ‘is rarely in the
office.’ (RJN Exhibit A, p. A-4.) On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff’s process
server was again informed by a ‘male employee’ at the Location that Defendant
‘is rarely in the office’ and for that reason, Plaintiff should serve Defendant
at his residence. (Id.) On October 15, 2024, Plaintiff’s process server
was advised that Defendant was ‘not in the office.’ (Id.)”
 
This court will consider the above statements to
the extent they show that the process server was told Defendant was “rarely” at
the Location and should be served at Defendant’s residence.  However, this court will not consider the
above statements to the extent they are being offered to prove Defendant is
rarely at the Location.
 
IV.         
DEFENDANT’S
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant raises nine objections to evidence
submitted with Plaintiff’s opposition. 
 
1.    Objection No. 1, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 1: page 1, lines
26-27, stating: “A true and correct copy of the Notice of Acknowledgement and
Receipt that was mailed to David Benzaken on September 25, 2024 is attached as
Exhibit 1.”
 
2.    Objection No. 2, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 2: page 1, line 28
through page 2, line 2, stating: “A true and correct copy of the Affidavit of
Due Diligence of David Kleinberg that establishes six (6) attempts were made to
serve David Benzaken at his residence were made prior to substituted service is
attached as Exhibit 2.”
 
3.    Objection No. 3, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 3: page 2, lines 3-5,
stating: “A true and correct copy of the Proof of Service of the summons and
complaint on David Benzaken in another matter at 260 Dolphin Drive, Woodmere,
NY, on March 7, 2024, is attached as Exhibit 3.”
 
4.    Objection No. 4, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 4: page 2, lines 6-8,
stating: “A true and correct copy of the stipulation extending time to for
David Benzaken respond [sic] to the complaint, which shows Benzaken received
actual notice from service at the 260 Dolphin Drive, Woodmere, NY address, is
attached as Exhibit 4.”
 
5.    Objection No. 5, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 5: page 2, lines 9-10,
stating: “A true and correct copy of the Personal Financial Statement of David
Benzaken, which shows he represented he is the president of ADI Marketing, is
attached as Exhibit 5.”
 
6.    Objection No. 6, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 6: page 2, lines
12-14, stating: “Exhibit 6 is a true and correct copy of the website page of
ADI Marketing, establishes that Benzaken is still represented to be the
president of ADI Marketing and that the business address remains the same as of
December 9, 2024.”
 
7.    Objection No. 7, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 7: page 2, lines
15-16, stating: “Exhibit 7 is a true and correct copy of the Dun &
Bradstreet web page that shows David Benzaken is a key principal and the
president of ADI Marketing.”
 
8.    Objection No. 8, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 9: page 2, lines
23-24, stating: “The Declaration of Delyla Powers establishes that the summons
and complaint were then mailed through U.S. Mail, return receipt requested.”
 
9.    Objection No. 9, Cosgrove Declaration, Paragraph 10: page 3, lines 1-2,
stating: “Accordingly, my client will incur at least $3,600 in fees in opposing
Benzaken’s baseless motion that misrepresents the facts and misstates the law.”
 
This court overrules Defendant’s objections.
 
V.            
TIMELINESS
 
“A defendant,
on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further
time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of
motion. . . [t]o quash service of summons[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10(a)(1).) Generally, a responsive pleading is due within thirty days after
service of the summons. (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20(a)(3).) When a party is
served by substitute service, “[s]ervice . . . is deemed complete on the 10th
day after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.20(a).)
 
Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing
Defendant was served by substituted service on October 23, 2024. (Proof of
Service filed 10/25/24.) The documents were mailed to Defendant that same day.
(Proof of Service filed 10/25/24 p. 3.)  Accordingly,
service was deemed complete on November 2, 2024, and a responsive pleading was
due by December 2, 2024.
 
However, Defendant submits an email from
Plaintiff’s counsel stating that “Requests for entry of default will be filed
if answers are not filed by December 6, 2024.” (Ex. 1 p. 1.)
 
Accordingly, this court finds that Defendant
timely filed the Motion.
 
VI.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A defendant, . . . may serve and
file a notice of motion…to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿418.10(a)(1).) 
 
When a defendant moves to quash
service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving
the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to
an effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866,
868.) The plaintiff must establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance
of the evidence. (Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
556, 568.) 
 
“The filing of a proof of service
declaration ordinarily creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was
proper, but only if the service declaration ‘complies with the statutory
requirements regarding such proofs.’” (Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210
Cal.App.4th 1154, 1164.) That presumption may be rebutted by contrary evidence
submitted by a defendant. (Fernandes v. Singh (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 932,
941, fn. 6.)
¿¿ 
If service of summons is not
properly and validly effectuated by one or more of the approved methods,
California courts lack personal jurisdiction over the defendants, and any
judicial actions taken without such service violates principles of fundamental
due process and is therefore void. (County of San Diego v. Gorham (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1226-1227.)¿
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
415.20, subdivision (a), states:
 
In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to
the person to be served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be
served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours
in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual
mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with
the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a
copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18 years of age,
who shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service of a summons in this
manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.
 
“Two or three attempts to
personally serve a defendant at a proper place ordinarily qualifies as
‘reasonable diligence.’” (Rodriguez v. Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742,
750.)
 
VII.      
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s proof of service is
invalid because “Plaintiff’s process server admits he was advised not once, but
twice that the Location was
not Defendant’s usual place of business” and “Plaintiff’s process server admits
he was informed that Defendant could be served at his residence.” (Motion p.
6.)
 
Plaintiff submits a proof of service stating that
the process server served “a person at least 18 years of age apparently in
charge at the office or usual place of business of the person to be served” by
leaving the summons, complaint, and notice of case assignment – unlimited civil
case, “with or in the presence of ‘John Doe’, Employee.” (Proof of Service
filed 10/25/24 p. 1.) The proof of service describes the “John Doe” and states
the process server “informed him or her of the general nature of the papers.”
(Proof of Service filed 10/25/24 p. 1.) Plaintiff also submits a proof of
service by mail showing the documents were subsequently mailed to Defendant. (Proof
of Service filed 10/25/24 pdf p. 3.) And Plaintiff submits an affidavit of due
diligence showing the process server made three unsuccessful attempts to serve
Defendant before serving Defendant by substituted service at the Location. (Proof
of Service filed 10/25/24 pdf p. 4.) The proofs of service are signed by the
process servers. (Proof of Service filed 10/25/24 pdf pp. 2, 5.) Further,
although the process server was told Defendant was “rarely” in the office, this
case is distinguishable from cases where a process server is told, for example,
that a defendant does not reside at an address. (See Lebel v. Mai, supra, 210
Cal.App.4th at p. 1164 [holding a proof of service did not give rise to a presumption
service was valid because the process server was told the defendant did not
reside at that address and “[n]othing in the record support[ed] a determination
that the [address] was defendant’s residence or that it was reasonable to
attempt personal service of him there, with knowledge that he resided abroad.”])
 Accordingly, Plaintiff’s submitted proof
of service creates a rebuttable presumption that service was proper.
 
The only evidence Defendant submits with the
Motion is a declaration by Defendant’s counsel who discusses downloading and
reviewing the proof of service and corresponding with Plaintiff’s counsel
regarding the proof of service and default and an exhibit containing
correspondence between Plaintiff’s counsel and Defendant’s counsel. (See
Thompson-Mann Declaration; Ex. 1.)  The
declaration and exhibit contain no evidence rebutting the presumption that
Plaintiff’s proof of service was proper.
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s proof of service does
not satisfy the statutory requirements because it was not made at Defendant’s
“usual place of business.” (Motion pp. 5-6.) To the extent this evidence is
offered to prove the Location where Defendant was served is not Defendant’s
usual place of business, this court sustained Plaintiff’s objections to what
the process server was told.  Defendant
submits no evidence showing the Location where Plaintiff served Defendant is
not Defendant’s usual place of business. For
example, Defendant does not submit a declaration by Defendant stating Defendant
is rarely in the office or that it is not Defendant’s usual place of business.
 
Defendant further argues that “There is no
indication on the Proof of Service or in any of the attachments thereto that on
or before October 23, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to serve Defendant at
Defendant’s residence, as advised on October 14, 2024, or at any other address
which may comply with the requirements of C.C.P. §415.20 before leaving the
documents with ‘John Doe.’” (Motion p. 6.) Citing Evartt v. Superior Court (1979)
89 Cal.App.3d 795, Defendant argues “Plaintiff must show why personal service
could not be effected if Defendant was available for personal service.” 
 
In Evartt, the real party in interest
alleged an assault occurred on Grimes Avenue. (Evartt v. Superior Court,
supra, 89 Cal.App.3d at p. 798.) The petitioner also resided on Grimes
Avenue, but “there was no effort to serve the summons and complaint until
August 23, 1978, three days before the expiration of the three-year period
under section 581a.” (Id.) The real party in interest submitted a proof
of service showing the process server made four efforts to personally serve the
petitioner (three attempts at the petitioner’s Grimes Avenue address and one attempt
at the petitioner’s son’s residence) before leaving a copy at the Grimes Avenue
address with a member of the petitioner’s household and mailing a copy to the petitioner.
(Id.) On appeal, the Court noted that “Petitioner’s declaration in
support of his motion to quash establishes that he had lived continuously at
1809 Grimes Avenue, Modesto, for 14 years, during which period his address and
telephone number in the telephone directory had remained unchanged. At no time
since the incidents alleged in the complaint had the real party in interest
made any demand for damages or communicated with him concerning the complaint,
nor to his knowledge was any attempt ever made to serve him with the
complaint.” (Id.) The declaration also “stated that he had been
available for service at his residence during the entire period of time that he
had lived there.” (Id.) The Court held that “real party clearly failed
to carry her burden, having not presented one scintilla of information or
explanation for her failure to attempt personal service for 2 years and 363
days, during all of which time except for very short periods defendant was
available for service at his residence close by.” (Id. at 801-802.) The Court
also noted that “[g]iven the nearness of their residences and the locale of the
alleged assault, it is clearly inferable that real party knew where petitioner
lived and of his availability during the entire period and for motives which do
not appear she did not effect earlier service on him personally.” (Id. at
802.) 
 
Plaintiff submits an affidavit of diligence with
the proof of service showing the process server made three unsuccessful
attempts to serve Defendant before serving Defendant by substituted service. (Proof
of Service filed 10/25/24 pdf p. 4.) Unlike the petitioner in Evartt,
Defendant here submits no declaration indicating where Defendant lived or that
Defendant was available for service at Defendant’s residence. Moreover, unlike Evartt,
where the real party in interest did not attempt to serve the petitioner until
three years before the period expired, Plaintiff filed the complaint in this
case on September 16, 2024, and served Defendant about a month later, on
October 23, 2024. (Complaint; Proof of Service filed 10/25/24.) Thus, Evartt
is distinguishable from this case. (Plaintiff
submits with the opposition an affidavit of due diligence showing Plaintiff
attempted to serve Defendant at a different address. (See Ex. 2.) Defendant
objects because it is not stamped showing Plaintiff submitted the document for
filing with the court. (See Reply p. 2.))
 
Relying on a Judicial Council Comment, Defendant also
argues the documents must be delivered to “a person closely connected with [the
defendant].” (Motion p. 6.) Defendant argues “[t]here
is no indication on the proof of service that the person to whom Plaintiff’s
process server delivered the documents on October 23, 2024 was ‘a person
closely connected’ to Defendant beyond Plaintiff’s process server’s statement
that ‘John Doe’ was Defendant’s employee.” (Motion pp. 6-7.)
 
There is no requirement that the
person given the papers must be identified by their true name. In Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175, 182, the party
argued a proof of service was invalid “because the true name of the person given
the summons was not used; he was instead identified as ‘John Doe,
co-resident.’” The Court of Appeal held that “The
evident purpose of the requirement that the proof of service ‘recite or in
other manner show the name’ (§ 417.10, subd. (a)) of the recipient is to enable the recipient to
be located in the future, should the claim of service be challenged. The
statement that ‘John Doe, co-resident’ received service at a specific address
satisfies this purpose.” (Id. at p. 184.)
 
The proof of service submitted here states
Plaintiff’s process server “left the documents . . . with or in the presence
of: ‘John Doe’, Employee (Age: 55; Ethnicity: Caucasian; Gender: Male;
Weight: 225; Height: 6’2”; Hair: Black)” who was “a person at least 18 years of age apparently in
charge at the office or usual place of business of the person to be served.”  (Proof of Service filed 10/25/24 p. 1.) Like Trackman v. Kenney,
the description here adequately describes the recipient such that the recipient
can be in located in the future. Defendant submits no evidence to rebut the
presumption that service to the “’John Doe’, Employee” was improper.
 
VIII.   
SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant “pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7, subparts (a), (b) and (c) (2), for misrepresenting the
facts and law and burdening the plaintiff and the Court with this baseless
motion.” (Opposition p. 7.) 
 
“A party seeking sanctions under
section 128.7 follows a two-step procedure. [Citation] First, the moving party
serves notice of the motion for sanctions on the offending party. [Citation]
Service of the motion starts a safe harbor period during which the motion
cannot be filed with the court. [Citation] If the challenged paper, claim,
defense, contention, allegation or denial is not withdrawn or corrected within
a prescribed number of days, the second step is to file or present the motion
for sanctions to the court.” (Primo Hospitality Group, Inc. v. Haney (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 165, 173-174.) 
 
“[A] party is not entitled to
sanctions pursuant to¿section 128.7¿unless the target of the motion has had a
full 21 days to withdraw the allegedly offending paper, claim, defense,
contention, allegation, or denial.” (Broadcast Music, Inc. v. Structured
Asset Sales, LLC (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 596, 599.)  “[A] moving party
cannot file a motion for sanctions until the 22nd day after the motion was
served.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff submits no evidence showing Plaintiff gave Defendant notice
of the motion for sanctions or that Defendant had the full 21-day safe-harbor
period to withdraw the Motion. Accordingly, this court awards no sanctions.
 
IX.         
 CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Motion is
denied.                                                                                                  





  