  Case Number:  22SMCV01113    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Todd Graham Vs Grimm
Investments, LLC, et al.



Case No.:


22SMCV01113       


Complaint Filed:


7-13-22           




Hearing Date:


9-21-23 


Discovery C/O:


6-10-24




Calendar No.:


10


Discovery Motion C/O:


6-24-24




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


7-8-24



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant New Holland LLC 
RESP.
PARTY:         None 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant New Holland LLC’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED W/20 DAYS
LEAVE TO AMEND per CCP §§430.10(e), (g) and (f). Plaintiff is given 20 days
leave to amend. Defendant is only party to the 1st, 2nd
and 3rd cause of action. Plaintiff failed to plead sufficient facts
of the existence of a contract for the 1st cause of action, and the
pleadings were uncertain or ambiguous as the 2nd and 3rd cause
of action. 
 
1st cause of
action for breach of contract—SUSTAIN
W/20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. To prevail on a cause of action for breach of
contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's
breach, and (4) resulting damage to the plaintiff. (See CACI 303; Richman v.
Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) A complaint pleading breach of
contract must indicate on its face whether contract is written, oral, or
implied by conduct and if action is based on written contract, terms must be
set out verbatim in body of complaint or a copy of written instrument must be
attached and incorporated by reference. (Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459.) “An agreement for the .
. . sale of real property” must be in writing or the agreement is invalid. (Civ.
Code, § 1624.) 


Plaintiff’s
breach of contract claim fails to state whether the alleged land sale contract was
written, oral or implied, and in facts states that it was all three. (FAC, ¶
7.) Contracts for the sale of land must satisfy the statute of frauds in
California, meaning they must be in writing, not verbal or implied. Plaintiff’s
claim also fails to allege the material terms of the specific agreement
breached by Defendant, what Plaintiffs’ obligations under that same contract
were and Plaintiffs’ performance or excuse for nonperformance under the
agreement. Furthermore, Plaintiff did not attach a copy of the written
instrument to the complaint to alleviate the lack of contract specifics pled. 
 
2nd cause of
action for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage—SUSTAIN W/ 20  DAYS LEAVE
TO AMEND 
 
“Intentional interference with prospective economic advantage has
five elements: (1) the existence, between the plaintiff and some third party,
of an economic relationship that contains the probability of future economic benefit
to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3)
intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual
disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused
by the defendant's action.” (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American
Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512; CACI 2202.)  “[A]n essential element of the tort of
intentional interference with prospective business advantage is the existence
of a business relationship with which the tortfeasor interfered. Although this
need not be a contractual relationship, an existing relationship is required.”
(Roth v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530, 546 [internal citations omitted].)
 
            The
Plaintiff does not allege facts in the FAC that state Defendant New Holland LLC
committed intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship
between Plaintiff and Defendant Grimm. (See CCP § 430.10(e).) The FAC only
includes conclusory allegations that all Defendants “willfully failed and
refused to sell the leased premises,” to the Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff
incorporates the factual background section of the FAC within this cause of
action, but Plaintiff still fails to allege an intentional wrongful act
committed by Defendant Holland LLC designed to disrupt the relationship between
Plaintiff and Grimm. Plaintiff’s pleadings also fail to specify which Defendant
is the third party and which is the party that intentionally interfered with
the Plaintiff and the third party, and therefore is also uncertain or
ambiguous. (See CCP 430.10(f).)
 
 
3rd cause of
action for Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage—SUSTAIN W/ 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND
 
“The elements of negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage are (1) the existence
of an economic relationship between the plaintiff and a third party
containing the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) the
defendant's knowledge (actual or construed) that the relationship would be
disrupted if the defendant failed to act with reasonable care; (4) the
defendant's failure to act with reasonable care; (5) actual disruption of the
relationship; (6) and economic harm proximately caused by the
defendant's negligence.” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe's Co. (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 989, 1005; CACI 2204.)
 
            Similarly
to the 2nd cause of action, Plaintiff fails to plead facts of
Defendant New Holland LLC’s knowledge that the relationship between Defendant
Grimm, or another third party, would be disrupted if New Holland LLC failed to
act with reasonable care, and further failed to plead Defendants failure to act
with reasonable care. (See CCP § 430.10(e).) Plaintiff’s pleadings fail to
specify which Defendant is the third party and which is the party that negligently
interfered with the Plaintiff and the third party. Therefore, the pleading is
also uncertain or ambiguous. (CCP § 430.10(f).)