  Case Number:  21STCV36793    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  28 


Having
  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
  October 6, 2021, Plaintiff Stacey Sterbcow (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
  against Defendants Jasmen Navasartian (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for motor
  vehicle tort. 
On
  August 11, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
  September 7, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, Lee C. Arter, filed a motion to be relieved
  as counsel to be heard on November 13, 2023. 
Trial
  is currently scheduled for June 4, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
  counsel, Lee C. Arter, requests to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1)
  notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice
  of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
  declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality
  of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil
  Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of
  Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's
  Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice
  of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and all
  other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
  relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
  Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
The
  court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw.  The motion should be granted if there is no
  prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.
  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel
  has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided
  a declaration stating: “There has been an irreparable breakdown in
  communication, and breakdown of the working relationship between counsel and
  Plaintiff. These breakdowns have rendered it unreasonably difficult for
  counsel to effectively carry out its representation of Plaintiff. The
  attorney-client relationship has reached an impasse. There now exist
  irreconcilable differences between Plaintiff and her counsel.” 
Counsel
  served Plaintiff at her last known address via mail, with return receipt
  requested. Counsel submitted proof of service on all parties, including
  Plaintiff. The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
  Court GRANTS the motion of Lee C. Arter, counsel for Plaintiff Stacey
  Sterbcow, to be relieved as counsel. Counsel
  will be relieved upon filing proof of service on the client of the Order
  Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council
  form MC-053). 
Counsel
  is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
  is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
  five days. 


