 Case Number:  23STCP03040    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  85 
 
Matthew Sorensen v. Commission on Teacher
Credentialing, 23STCP03040

 
Tentative decision on motion
to compel compliance: granted 




 
 
Petitioner Matthew Sorensen (“Sorensen”) moves to compel Respondent
California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (“Commission”) to comply with
the court’s writ directing it to reconsider the decision to revoke his
credential.
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision.
 
A. Statement of the Case
1. The Petition
Petitioner Sorensen commenced this proceeding on August 22,
2023.  The verified Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows.        
On December 7, 2021, the Commission brought charges against
Sorensen, alleging that he had engaged in conduct demonstrating unfitness to
teach.  
On October 11, 2022, a three-day hearing was held before an
Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”).  The
ALJ found that most allegations were unsubstantiated.  For the remaining allegations, specifically
Sorensen’s interactions with a female student, G.S., and his failure to appear
in court for a traffic ticket issued in the 1990s, the ALJ found that those
facts did not warrant revoking Sorensen’s teaching license and revocation would
be “excessively punitive”.  Therefore,
the ALJ recommended a public reprimand. 
On June 23, 2023, the Commission overturned the ALJ’s
decision, made its own findings of fact, and revoked Sorensen’s teaching
license.  The Commission’s decision was mainly
based on its contention that Sorensen showed G.S. an “egregious” video even
though the Commission never saw it.  The
Commission also based its decision on Sorensen’s failure to appear in court for
a 20-year-old traffic ticket.  The
decision failed to set forth any clear basis that warranted overturning the
ALJ’s decision.  
Sorensen submitted a Petition for Reconsideration.  On July 24, 2023, the Commission sent a letter
to Sorensen, stating that his Petition for Reconsideration was “denied by
operation of law because no action was taken by the Commission on the Petition
before the Decision and Order took effect.” 

Petitioner Sorensen alleges that the Commission abused its
discretion because it did not proceed in the manner required by law, and its
decision was not supported by the findings and the findings are not supported
by the evidence.
 
2. Course of Proceedings
            Petitioner
Sorensen filed the Petition on August 22, 2023.
            The
court conducted the trial on June 11, 2024, and adopted its tentative ruling
ordering a remand for proper consideration of the discipline to Sorensen’s
credential.  
            The
court issued the Judgment and Writ on August 2, 2024, directing the Commission
to set aside the revocation of Petitioner’s teaching credential and reconsider
the manner of disciplinary action within its discretion.[1]
On November 22, 2024, the court denied Sorensen’s ex parte
application for an expedited briefing schedule for the instant motion.
 
B. Governing Law
1. Grounds for Discipline
The Commission shall
revoke or suspend a teacher’s credential if it finds inter alia that the teacher engaged in immoral conduct,
unprofessional conduct, or acts of moral turpitude.  Education Code §44421, 44345.  There is a substantial overlap between these
forms of misconduct.  Morrison v.
State Board of Education, (“Morrison”) (1969) 1 Cal.3d 214, 220, n. 9.
 
a. Immoral Conduct
The courts have developed a broad and well-understood
definition of “immoral conduct” in teacher dismissal cases: “[...] that which
is hostile to the welfare of the general public and contrary to good
morals.  Immorality has not been confined
to sexual matters, but included conduct inconsistent with rectitude, or
indicative of corruption, indecency, depravity, dissoluteness; or as willful,
flagrant, or shameless conduct showing moral indifference to the opinions of
respectable members of the community, and as an inconsiderate attitude toward
good order and public welfare.”  Palo
Verde Unified School Dist. v. Hensey, (1970) 9 Cal.App.3d 967, 971-72
(quoting Board of Education of San Francisco Unified School Dist. v. Weiland,
(“Weiland”) (1960) 179 Cal.App.2d 808). 
Based on this definition, a teacher’s falsification of attendance
records to add names of three students to secure continued employment was
deemed immoral conduct and dishonesty. Weiland, supra, 179
Cal.App.2d at 808.  Similarly, a
teacher’s removal of school property (a public address system speaker) from the
classroom wall was deemed immoral.  Palo
Verde Unified School District v. Hensey, supra, 9 Cal.App.3d at 967.
 
b. Unprofessional Conduct
“Unprofessional conduct” is behavior that “violates the rules
or ethical code of a profession” or conduct that is “unbecoming [of] a member
of a profession in good standing.”  Board
of Education of City of Los Angeles v. Swan, (1953) 41 Cal.2d 546, 553, overruled on other grounds, Bekaris
v. Board of Education of the City of Modesto, (1972) 6 Cal.3d 575, 588, n. 7.  A particular act or omission on the part of a
teacher may constitute not only unprofessional conduct but also evident
unfitness for service and a persistent violation of or refusal to obey
prescribed rules and regulations.  Perez
v. Comm’n on Prof. Comp., (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1167, 1174-1175; Board
of Education v. Swan, (1953) 41 Cal.2d 546, 551.  Conduct constituting evident unfitness for
service will often constitute unprofessional conduct.  Woodland Joint Unified School District v.
Comm’n on Prof. Comp., (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1429, 1445. 
 
c. Moral Turpitude
The California
Supreme Court has defined “moral turpitude” as “an act of baseless, vileness or
depravity in the private and social duties which a man owes to his fellowmen,
or to society in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right
and duty between man and man, or everything done contrary to justice, honesty,
modesty or good morals.”  Rice v.
Alcoholic Beverage Control Appeals Board, (1979) 89 Cal.App.3d 30, 36
(citation omitted).  “Yet it is innately
a relative concept depending on both contemporary moral values and the degree
of its inimical quality whose purpose as a legislative standard is not
punishment but protection of the public.” 
Id.  Pursuant to
section 44345, moral turpitude is only actionable when it is related to fitness
to teach, so it is similar to evident unfitness for service.
 
d. Unfit to Teach



A finding of misconduct is not alone enough to revoke a
credential.  Instead, that misconduct
must render the teacher unfit to teach.  San
Dieguito Union High School District v. Commission on Professional Competence,
(“San Dieguito”) (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 278, 288.  The conclusion of unfitness must be based upon
an objective standard such as that articulated in Morrison, supra, 1
Cal.3d at 220.  See also San
Dieguito, supra, 135 Cal.App.3d
at 288.
In Morrison, the California Supreme Court articulated
factors to consider in whether a credentialed employee’s misconduct renders him
unfit for service as a teacher: (a) likelihood that the conduct at issue may
have adversely affected students/fellow teachers; (b) degree of such adversity
anticipated; (c) proximity or remoteness in time of the conduct; (d) type of
teaching certificate held by the party involved; (e) extenuating or aggravating
circumstances, if any, surrounding the conduct; (f) likelihood of recurrence of
the questioned conduct; (g) praiseworthiness or blameworthiness of motives
resulting in the conduct; (h) extent to which disciplinary action may inflict
an adverse impact or chilling effect upon constitutional rights of the teacher
involved or other teachers.  Id.
at 229-30.  Not every Morrison
factor must be considered; a trier of fact may consider all the factors that
are relevant to the respective case.  Ibid;
West Valley-Mission College v. Concepcion, (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1766.
The Commission has
adopted factors similar to Morrison in 5 CCR section 80302(a).
 
C. Motion to Compel Compliance
Once a judgment has been entered, the trial court loses its
unrestricted power to change the judgment. 
Graven v. Crout, (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 779, 782.  
A court issuing a writ of mandate retains jurisdiction to
make any order necessary to its enforcement. 
CCP §§ 1097, 1105; County of lnyo v. City of Los Angeles, (1977)
71 Cal.App.3d 185, 205; see also, Professional Engineers in Cal.
Govt. v. State Personnel Bd., (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 101, 109.  This authority is codified in CCP section
1097, which provides in part that when a peremptory writ has issued and is
disobeyed, the court “may make any orders necessary and proper for the complete
enforcement of the writ.”  This
enforcement power is also an inherent power of the court.  Kings v. Woods, (1983) 144 Cal. App.3d
571, 578.  Thus, where the writ remands
the matter to an agency with directions to proceed in a certain manner, and the
agency’s return states that the court’s mandate has been carried out, a
petitioner may challenge the validity of that claim.  CCP §1097. 

 “Where…the writ
remands the matter...and the return states that the court’s mandate has been
carried out, the petitioner may challenge the validity of that claim” by a new
petition, a supplemental petition, or a motion to compel compliance.  City of Carmel-by-The-Sea v. Board of
Supervisors, (“Carmel-by-the-Sea”) (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 964,
971.  The motion for
leave to file a supplemental petition may be either oral or written.  Id.  A supplemental petition is permitted in
mandamus only after the mandated party has filed a return advising the court
and parties of its compliance.  Pollak
v. State Personnel Board, (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1394-95
(supplemental petition challenged board’s order for reduced penalty imposed
after remand); Carmel-by-The-Sea, supra, 137 Cal.App.3d at 971
(petition may challenge a return in several ways, including a supplemental
petition); Kensington University v. Council for Private Postsecondary, etc.
Education, (“Kensington”) (1997) 62 Cal.App.4th 27, 39
(supplemental petition considered only after administrative body’s final
decision).  
The court’s review of a return is limited to determining
whether the agency cured the deficiencies identified in the writ.  Nat’l Parks & Conservation Ass’n v.
County of Riverside, (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1341, 1351-52.  The court must resolve any doubts in favor of
the agency’s finding and decision.  Id.  The failure to challenge the scope of writ
arising from facts in existence before judgment precludes a challenge in
post-judgment proceedings concerning compliance with the writ.  Ballona Wetlands Land Trust v. City of Los
Angeles, (“Ballona Wetlands”) (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 455,
481.  To conclude that a petitioner may
challenge anything other than the return’s compliance with the judgment and
writ would raise serious issues about the judgment’s finality and scope of the
writ.  See Graven v. Crout,
supra, 163 Cal.App.3d at 782; Ballona Wetlands, supra, 201
Cal.App.4th at 481.  The court
may not consider any newly asserted challenges arising from the same material
facts in existence at the time of the prior judgment because consideration of
those issues that were, or could have been, raised in the litigation leading to
the return.  See Town of Atherton v. Cal. High-Speed Rail Auth., (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 314, 354 (holding that petitioner’s argument in
second lawsuit regarding validity of alternatives analysis in a revised EIR was
barred by collateral estoppel because the court had already rejected
petitioner’s same argument in the first case).
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Sorensen moves to compel compliance with the
court’s Writ directing the Commission to set aside and reconsider its decision revoking
his credential in a manner that lies within its discretion.[2]   
The propriety of a penalty imposed by an administrative
agency is a matter in the discretion of the agency, and its decision may not be
disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of discretion.  Lake v. Civil Service Commission, (“Lake”)
(1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 224, 228.  Neither
an appellate court nor a trial court is free to substitute its discretion for
that of the administrative agency concerning the degree of punishment imposed.  Nightingale v. State Personnel Board,
(“Nightingale”) (1972) 7 Cal.3d 507, 515.  The policy consideration underlying such
allocation of authority is the expertise of the administrative agency in
determining penalty questions.  Cadilla
v. Board of Medical Examiners, (“Cadilla”) (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961. 
 
1. The Court’s
Decision
The court’s decision, which is attached to the Judgment,
addressed whether the Morrison factors implemented by 5 CCR section
80302(a) support revocation of Sorensen’s credentials.  The Commission considers only those factors
most pertinent to the fitness inquiry (West Valley-Mission Community
College District v. Concepcion, (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1766, 1777),
and not all eight Morrison factors need be examined (Governing
Bd. of ABC Unified Sch. Dist. v. Haar, (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 369,
384).
 
a. The
Likelihood that the Conduct May Have Adversely Affected Students/Teachers
This factor includes actual adverse impacts as well as the
likelihood that the teacher's conduct may have adversely affected students and
other teachers.  Broney v. California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing, (“Broney”) (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 462, 477.
The Commission found that Sorensen's conduct towards G.S. "did in fact adversely affect G.S. as she struggled to learn while in
respondent's class."  She became so
uncomfortable that she requested to transfer from his class.  AR 69. 
She had to re-start her studies mid-year with a new teacher, learn new
classroom procedures, and catch up to where the other students were.  AR 69.  Other staff and administrators were told
about his behavior and had to take actions to protect G.S., which was
undoubtedly unpleasant.   The teacher who
had to instruct G.S. for the remainder of the year also was affected.  AR 69.
The Commission also found a substantial likelihood of
adverse effects.  Students who learned of
the misconduct would "likely lose their ability to respect and learn"
from Sorensen.  Other teachers would have
to deal with rumors about Sorensen and struggle to interact with him after
doing so.  AR 69.  It further is likely that they would have to
deal with parents who learned that a teacher had been reported behaving so
inappropriately.  AR 69.  It is reasonable to conclude that these
likely effects actually were felt at Golden Valley.  The rumors heard by G.S. about Sorensen
before she started in his class show that rumors of his misconduct did
circulate.  AR 70.  While calling a student “Princess” did not
have any likely adverse effect, there was a likelihood of adverse effects from
Sorensen’s misdemeanor convictions if students learned about them because they
teach disobedience to authority.  AR 70.
The court agreed with the Commission’s opposition that the
Commission was entitled under Broney to consider likely impacts as well
as actual impacts.  The video is
something that Golden Valley students, teachers, and parents likely would hear
about, and the rumors G.S. did hear about Sorensen before she started in his
class show that rumors pass easily at the school.  
However, the court agreed with Sorensen that his 1996 misdemeanor
traffic convictions have no bearing on this Morrison factor; the Commission’s
finding of a likelihood of adverse effects if students learned about them was pure
speculation.
 
b. Proximity or
Remoteness of the Conduct 
The Commission noted that Sorensen’s misconduct at Golden
Valley occurred during the 2018–2019 and 2019–2020 school years and the period
of three years from the misconduct is not considered remote for purposes of
this Morrison factor.  AR 70. 
The Commission acknowledged that Sorensen’s misdemeanor convictions were
remote and carried little weight.  AR 71.
 
c. Type of
Teaching Certificate Held 
The Commission found that Sorensen held a Single Subject
Teaching Credential that authorized him to teach students up to grade 12. 
Although he did not teach elementary or middle school students, that
credential allows him to do so.  Broney
held that the impressionable nature of elementary school students, and their
need for role models, weighs in favor of finding unfitness to teach.  184 Cal.App.4th at 477.  Even though high school students may not be
as impressionable, the damage is significant when an authority figure and role
model asks a student to perform a sexual dance and shows her an inappropriate
video.  AR 71. 
The Commission also found that referring to a female student as "Princess"
and Sorensen’s misdemeanor convictions do not set a good example, even for this
age group.  AR 71.
The court agreed with Sorensen that the Commission misapplied
Broney.  The Commission disregarded the evidence in suggesting
that Sorensen could in theory
teach elementary students.  Sorensen taught
high school students only and never taught elementary students. AR 71. The
Commission must rule on the facts and this factor could be given no weight.
 
d. Extenuating or
Aggravating Circumstances
An “aggravating factor” is defined in section 80300(b) as “an
event or circumstance which demonstrates that a greater degree of adverse
action for an act of unprofessional misconduct is needed to adequately protect
the public, schoolchildren, or the profession.” AR 71-72.
The Commission found that Sorensen committed multiple acts
of wrongdoing that demonstrate a pattern of misconduct.  AR 72. 
Each act of misconduct resulted from his failure to exercise proper
judgment and proper boundaries.   AR
72.  He regularly misused class time,
behaved in an overly familiar fashion, and contacted G.S. outside class.  His decision to organize a sexual dance for
the baseball team and to show an inappropriate video was the culmination of a
pattern of poor judgment.  AR 27.  The misdemeanor convictions demonstrate that his
poor judgment is a pattern and not a recent lapse of judgment.  AR 72.
The misconduct significantly harmed G.S., a student entrusted in his care, and
significantly harmed the educational system and violated the trust placed in Sorensen
as a teacher when he singled G.S. out for
focused attention, asked her to organize a sexual dance for the baseball team
and showed G.S. an inappropriate
video.  AR
73.  The misconduct negatively affected G.S.'s education and impacted the educational
system and public trust.  AR 72.
Further, Sorensen demonstrated indifference to his conduct
when he denied asking G.S. to organize a
sexual dance or showing her an inappropriate video.  AR 73.  Sorensen lacked candor when he admitted
asking G.S. personal questions and to
perform a dance but claimed he did not notice when she transferred out of his
class mid-year.  AR 73.  He
did not testify that he recognized any impact of his actions on his
students.  AR 73.
With the exception of his lack of remorse, the court agreed
with Sorensen that these are not aggravating factors.  Rather, his misuse of class time, personal
interactions with students, and contacting G.S. outside of class time are simply
the circumstances of misconduct that singularly would not even be the subject
of discipline.  The fact that they show a
pattern is not an aggravating circumstance, it is the misconduct itself.  Sorensen’s traffic violations from 1996 (when
he was 18 years old) are not evidence of a pattern of poor judgment
either.  As Sorensen argued, the
misdemeanor convictions have no impact on his fitness to teach in light of his
20 years of teaching.  
The Commission also erred in not considering an important
mitigating circumstance.  The decision repeatedly
concludes that Sorensen asked G.S. to organize a sexual dance and showed her an
inappropriate sexual video.  In reaching
this conclusion, the Commission relied solely on G.S.’s testimony that the video
was highly inappropriate and “egregious” and apparently never saw the video itself.  AR. 76. 
Sorensen argued that the Commission fails to cite anything
in the record which accurately characterizes the contents of the video.  Sorensen testified that the video was a
baseball skit played to the song “Hey, Batter, Batter” from the Disney channel,
either “Glee” or “High School Musical.”  RT
Vol. III, p. 155.  The video is on
YouTube and Sorensen offered to show it to the ALH, who declined to watch it.  RT Vol. III, p. 157. Thus, the Commission
based its conclusion to revoke Sorensen’s credentials in major part based on
evidence that neither the ALJ nor the Commission ever saw.  
This case has been presented to the court as a matter in
which Sorensen is guilty of unprofessional conduct based in part on the video involving
“twerking” and “stripper moves” which made G.S. uncomfortable.  AR 58. 
 He also was found guilty of
immoral acts and acts of moral turpitude based solely on showing of the video.  AR 64, 67. 
Yet, no one saw this video except G.S. 
While G.S. was credible, her subjective discomfort at viewing it may not
have been objectively reasonable.  As
Supreme Court Justice Stewart Potter famously said about obscenity: “I’ll know
it when I see it.”  The court strongly
believes that the ALJ and Commission should not have taken G.S.’s word that the
video was highly inappropriate.  Sorensen
remains guilty of the charges, but the Commission’s failure to verify that the
video was the “sexual dance” with “stripper” movements as described by the
Commission (AR 72) is a compelling mitigating factor.
It is true that Sorensen tried to hide the dance request
from G.S.’s dance supervisor, and that fact indicates that it was
inappropriate.  That does not mean, however,
that he tried to hide the video.  He
showed G.S. the video after suggesting that they keep the request
between themselves.  Nor does it mean
that the video was a sexual dance as opposed to part of a request that he knew
he should not be making.  This fact does
not undermine mitigating fact that no one saw the video.
 
e. Likelihood of Recurrence
The Commission found that Sorensen did not express any
remorse and instead claimed that the charges against him were due to
retaliation by a disgruntled student and former assistant coach.  AR 74. Sorensen’s
failure to "fully appreciate the nature and consequences of his actions,
[creates] an elevated likelihood of recurrence exists."   AR 74.
The court agreed with the Commission’s opposition that the remorse
of a credential holder is a mitigating factor "which demonstrates that the
public, schoolchildren and the profession would be adequately protected by a
more lenient degree of adverse action or no adverse action whatsoever…."  5 CCR §80300(m)(5).  Conversely, a lack of remorse shows that the
accused has not learned from his actions and is prone to recurrence of his
misconduct.  See Opp. at 17.
 
f. Praiseworthiness
or Blameworthiness of Motive
The Commission found that Sorensen alone is to blame for his
failure to maintain proper boundaries with his students, especially G.S., and his commitment of criminal misdemeanors.  AR 72.
The court found that Morrison requires an assessment of “the praiseworthiness or
blameworthiness of the motives
resulting in the conduct.”  Morrison, supra, 1 Cal.3d at
229. Nowhere did the Commission explain why Sorensen’s motives are praiseworthy or
blameworthy. The relevant factor is his motivation in asking G.S. to organize a
“feminine dance” and showing her the dance video, which was to teach the freshmen
baseball team a dance to perform for the varsity baseball team.  The Commission did not consider the proper factor,
which may work in his favor because it did not occur for a selfish purpose.
 
g. Extent to Which
Discipline May Chill Constitutional Rights of the Teacher or Other Teachers
The Commission found that "the outcome of this case
will have no chilling effect on credentialed teachers exercising their
constitutional rights."  AR 74.  The court agreed.
 
h. Publicity  
The Commission found that notoriety from misconduct can
impair future on-campus relationships, citing San Diego Unified School
District, (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1463.  The Commission found -- and the court agreed
– that there was no evidence of publicity that would have affected his
relationships at Monterey or the charter school.  AR 75.
 
i. The Penalty
The Commission concluded, based on the Morrison
factors, that Sorensen is unfit to teach. 
It acknowledged that many allegations were unproven, but the evidence
demonstrated an alarming pattern of lack of boundaries and poor judgment that
harmed a student as well as a great likelihood of harming others.  AR 75. 
Sorensen’s response was a self-serving denial and assertion that he was
being retaliated against as a baseball coach. 
AR 75.  His lack of remorse and his favorable letters
of support and performance reviews do not alleviate this concern, particularly
when he was not upfront with his employers or recommenders about the
allegations of misconduct he faces in this case.  Therefore, revocation was necessary to
protect the public.  AR 76.  
The court found serious reasons to doubt the Commission’s
decision, which was full of conclusions and not many facts.  The Commission admitted that many allegations
were unproved, and those that were proved were mostly based on generalities and
almost totally on G.S.’s testimony.  The
Commission accepted G.S.’s testimony that Sorensen would approach students in
class multiple times in the same period, he asked a student to get him lunch
during class time, and he asked a student to go check with players to see what
they were bringing as potluck.  AR
58.  The Commission concluded that
Sorensen had committed unprofessional conduct by approaching students in class
to discuss personal matters, which interfered with education time.  AR 62. 
This behavior evidenced overfamiliarity with students and failed to
maintain professional boundaries with students. 
AR 62.  
Although they were proved, the Commission could not seriously
conclude that these allegations justify revocation of Sorensen’s right to
teach.  Nor did the Commission believe
that the misdemeanor convictions or using the term “Princess” had a strong
bearing on the revocation issue.  AR 71.
This left the Commission’s conclusions about Sorensen’s request
for G.S. to organize a dance for the baseball team and showing her a video
involving “twerking” and “stripper moves” which made G.S. uncomfortable.  AR 58. 
G.S. testified credibly and was corroborated by her prior consistent
statements whereas Sorensen’s testimony about G.S. as a run of the mill student
was not credible given that he admitted asking her to coordinate a dance for
the baseball team.  AR 58-59.  Most seriously, when G.S. tried to redirect
him by asking that he speak with the dance supervisor, he attempted to ensure
her secrecy by telling her the matter should stay between them and the
supervisor did not need to know about it. 
He escalated this “wildly inappropriate interaction” by showing her a
video which G.S. stated involved “twerking” and “stripper moves” which made
G.S. uncomfortable and made it necessary for her to transfer classes
mid-year.  AR 63.
The court concluded that there is much that is not known
about this video, including its contents, whether G.S. was correct that it
involved stripper moves and twerking, whether G.S. is naive or inordinately
sensitive, and whether the video is objectively a sexual video.  If not, the Commission would be left with an
incident in which Sorensen tried to get G.S. to organize dancing for the
baseball team and hid that fact from the dance supervisor.  Should Sorensen’s credentials be revoked on
that basis, or for the totality of evidence stated by the court?  The ALJ thought not, and only recommended a
public reprimand.  In light of the
unknown, the Commission’s decision to revoke was dubious.
Nonetheless, the court may not overturn a penalty unless
there has been a manifest abuse of discretion (Lake, supra, 47 Cal.App.3d at 228), and cannot
substitute its discretion for that of the agency on the degree of
punishment.  Nightingale, supra, 7 Cal.3d at 515.  Most
important, the policy importance of a properly considered video is a
matter within the expertise of the Commission in determining penalty questions.
 See Cadilla, supra, 26 Cal.App.3d at 961. 
The court remanded
the case to the Commission to take further action with respect to the Morrison
analysis that properly considers the issues.
 
2. Analysis
Sorensen now
challenges the Commission’s compliance with the court’s direction.  Sorensen argues that the Commission issued a
new decision which still revoked his license based on the same facts without
specifically mentioning any of the defects found by the court and contradicting
it in multiple instances.  Mot. at
4.  
As the Commission
notes, Sorensen challenges the Commission’s new decision, issued on or around
October 21, 2024, for two of the Morrison factors: (1) the extenuating
or aggravating circumstances and (2) the praiseworthiness or blameworthiness of
motive.  Opp. at 3.
 
a. The Video
Sorensen notes that
the Judgment expressly held that the Commission “erred in not considering an
important mitigating circumstance” that it “never saw the video itself.”  RJN Ex. 2, pg. 15.[3]
 He argues that the Commission’s new
decision expressly contradicts the Judgment by finding instead that “the fact
that the video at issue was not viewed at the hearing is not mitigating.”
Tauler Decl., Ex. A, pg. 44, ¶56.  Mot.
at 5.
The Judgment
ordered the Commission to consider the fact that “[t]here is much that is not
known about this video, including its contents, whether G.S. is correct that it
involved stripper moves and twerking, whether G.S. is naive or inordinately sensitive,
and whether the video is objectively a sexual video.”  RJN Ex. 2, p. 18.  Similarly, the Judgment indicated that the court
“strongly believes that the ALJ and Commission should not have taken G.S.’s
word that the video was highly inappropriate.”  RJN Ex. 2, p. 15.  
Sorensen argues
that the Commission’s new decision does not address any of the court’s
directives about how the Commission should assess the fact that no one ever saw
the video that serves as the basis to revoke Sorensen’s ability to teach.  The new decision makes no assessment about the
contents of the video in light of the factors the court ordered the Commission
to consider, let alone the fact that the decision to revoke his credentials was
based in major part on evidence that neither the ALJ nor the Commission ever
saw.  The new decision contradicts the
Judgment entirely in this central regard. 
Mot. at 5.
Sorensen notes that
the Commission argued in opposition to his ex parte application that
the new decision is compliant with the Judgment because it is 16 pages longer
than the decision.  RJN Ex. 3, p. 3.  Yet, a
redline comparison of the two decisions demonstrates that the Commission made
few substantive changes, and no changes expressly based on the court’s
Judgment.  Tauler Decl., Ex. B.  The new decision adds pages of filler which is
mostly the result of cutting and pasting of G.S.’s testimony from the ALJ’s
trial relating to the video. Tauler Decl., Ex. A, p. 38, ¶49.  The
Commission appears to repeat this direct copy and paste, with little to no
variation, at least 12 separate times to justify its analysis of the Morrison
factors.  Exs. A, B.  Mot. at 6.
Sorensen concludes
that none of the additional testimony cut and pasted into the new decision
follows the court’s direction for the Commission to take into account the fact
that “[t]here is much that is not known about this video, including its
contents, whether G.S. is correct that it involved stripper moves and twerking,
whether G.S. is naive or inordinately sensitive, and whether the video is
objectively a sexual video.”  RJN Ex. 2,
p. 18.  The Commission’s new decision
does not shed any light on these circumstances, only adding the phrase “very
feminine” to describe the dance in the video 16 times (the decision used this
term three times), repeatedly quoting the same testimony to give the illusion
of careful deliberation.  Exs. A, B.
Similarly, the new decision uses the term “inappropriate video” 17 times (the decision
mentioned this term five times).  Exs. A,
B.  The Commission then concludes that
“[s]howing the video to G.S. was awful” (Ex. B, pg. 31, ¶31), without making any
assessment about the contents of the video as directed by the court.  Mot. at 7.
The Commission responds that the court found error because
the Commission did not consider the extent to which the failure to see the
video should mitigate the discipline.  The
Commission’s new decision made further, extensive factual findings concerning
Sorensen’s dance request and sharing of the video with G.S.  The decision contained three paragraphs of
factual findings whereas the new decision has eight paragraphs addressing this
topic.  AR 49 (¶¶ 15–17); Ex. A, pp. 6–10
(¶¶ 17–24).  The Commission copiously
cited to G.S.’s testimony in which she described the video’s contents.[4]  Per G.S.’s testimony, the video showed
cheerleaders dancing for Sorensen’s baseball team at a school where he
previously taught.  Ex. A, p. 8
(¶20).  G.S. described the cheerleaders
as “‘dancing like, basically, strippers,’” and they “were bending over, dancing
very feminine” with their butts” and “‘twerking’”.[5]  Ex. A, pp. 9–10 (¶¶ 21–22).  The expanded factual findings appear to show
that the Commission did not take G.S.’s word that the video was inappropriate
but instead reached this conclusion itself based on G.S.’s credible description
of the video’s contents and its own expertise in such matters.  Opp. at 4. 

The Commission argues that it reevaluated this Morrison
factor as follows:
 
“The fact
that the video at issue was not viewed at the hearing is not mitigating. Both
respondent and G.S., the only two persons present when respondent showed the
video to G.S., were provided the opportunity to testify regarding the contents
of the video. G.S. testified credibly and consistently with her earlier
statements to her dance supervisor and the CTC investigator. Respondent
testified inconsistently and evasively such that his statements regarding the
contents of the video he showed to G.S. are not credible. Thus, the only
credible testimony before the Commission regarding the contents of the video
comes from G.S. 
 
Additionally,
complainant would have been unable to play the video at the hearing as the
evidence demonstrates neither G.S. nor any other complainant witness had access
to the video respondent showed G.S. The only party who could have played the
purported video at hearing was respondent. However, any video he showed would
have had to have been authenticated by his testimony, which, as discussed, is
not credible. Consequently, the lack of a video in evidence is not considered
in mitigation.”  Ex. A, pp. 44–45 (¶¶
56–57).  Opp. at 4.
                                                            
            The Commission’s opposition contends
that it followed the Judgment in considering the extent to which the failure to
view the video should have mitigated the penalty.  A “mitigating factor” is an “event or
circumstance which demonstrates that the public, schoolchildren and the
profession would be adequately protected by a more lenient degree of adverse
action or no adverse action whatsoever.” (8 CCR §80300(m)).  Opp. at 5.
The Commission did
not comply with the Writ.  Sorensen is
correct (Reply at 1) that the Commission did not -- as it was ordered to
do -- take into consideration the mitigating circumstance that neither it, nor
the ALJ, saw the video.  Instead, the
Commission concluded that the court’s decision was wrong by stating that “the
fact that the video at issue was not viewed at the hearing is not mitigating.”  Ex. A, p. 44 (¶56).  This it cannot do.  As Sorensen argues, the court’s Judgment was
not an idle suggestion.  It carries the
weight of law and must be followed by its terms and its spirit.  Mot. at 5. 

The Commission failed to consider the fact that no one
besides G.S. saw the video on which revocation principally was based.  As the court’s decision stated, Sorensen is
guilty of unprofessional conduct based in part on the video involving
“twerking” and “stripper moves” which made G.S. uncomfortable.  AR 58.  
He also was found guilty of immoral acts and acts of moral turpitude
based solely on showing of the video.  AR
64, 67.  Yet, no one saw this video
except G.S.  While G.S. was credible, her
subjective discomfort at viewing it may not have been objectively
reasonable.  As Supreme Court Justice
Stewart Potter famously said about obscenity: “I’ll know it when I see
it.”  The court strongly believed that
the ALJ and Commission should not have taken G.S.’s word that the video was
highly inappropriate.  Sorensen remains
guilty of the charges, but the Commission’s failure to verify that the video
was the “sexual dance” with “stripper” movements as described by the Commission
(AR 72) is a compelling mitigating factor.[6]
It is true that Sorensen tried to hide the dance request
from G.S.’s dance supervisor, and that fact indicates that the request was
inappropriate.  That does not mean,
however, that he tried to hide the video. 
He showed G.S. the video after suggesting that they keep the
request between themselves.  Indeed,
G.S.’s testimony cited by the Commission shows that Sorensen used the video at
another school.  Ex. A, p. 8.  Yet, there is no evidence that anyone at his
other school complained about the video as inappropriate. 
The Commission
failed to consider the mitigating fact that the video was only subjectively
inappropriate and not necessarily objectively so.[7]
 
b. The
Traffic Convictions
Sorensen argues
that the Commission’s new decision directly contradicts the Judgment’s holding
that Sorensen’s traffic violations from 1996 (when he was 18 years old) are “not evidence of a pattern
of poor judgment […]” and as such are not an extenuating or aggravating
circumstance.  RJN Ex. 2, p. 15.  The new decision improperly includes these misdemeanor
convictions as an aggravating factor despite the court’s explicit instruction
to exclude them.  Ex. A, p. 40, ¶54.  Mot. at 6.
The Commission’s opposition argues that its new decision
does not rely on Sorensen’s convictions as evidencing a pattern of misconduct
involving poor judgment but rather as multiple acts of wrongdoing.  Compare Ex. A, p. 40 (¶54(a)) and AR
72 (¶47(a)).  The court’s judgment narrowly decided that the convictions did not
evidence a pattern of misconduct involving poor judgment and said nothing about
them as multiple acts of wrongdoing. Thus, the Commission complied with the court’s
judgment.  Opp. at 5-6.
Sorensen replies that the Commission’s opposition ignores
the fact that the new decision uses these 1996 convictions in its “pattern of
misconduct” section as an aggravating factor. 
Ex. A, p. 40 (¶54).  The
Commission’s argument is misleading at best – dishonest at worst.  Reply at 2.
Whether the
Commission complied with the Judgment by labeling the prior convictions as
multiple acts of wrongdoing instead of demonstrating a pattern of poor judgment
is of little moment.  The fact is these
ancient traffic convictions have virtually no bearing on Sorensen’s fitness to
teach.
 
c. Lack of
Blameworthy Motive
Sorensen argues
that the Commission failed to adequately address the court’s directive that a
lack of selfish purpose could mitigate blameworthiness.  Instead, the Commission revised its analysis
to ultimately conclude blameworthy intent, disregarding the court’s indication
that this factor could potentially favor him. 
Ex. A, pgs. 45-46, ¶ 59.   Mot. at
6.
The Commission responds that the court observed that
Sorensen’s motivation for asking G.S. to organize the dance and for showing her
the dance video is a proper factor to consider. 
The Commission’s new decision did consider whether Sorensen’s motives
were praiseworthy or blameworthy:
 
“The
motives behind [Sorensen’s] misconduct involve varying levels of
blameworthiness. The requests for G.S. or another student to get petitioner
lunch or to organize a baseball potluck demonstrate self-serving motives as
they involve [petitioner] asking a student to do something he would otherwise
have to handle himself. Inferably, [Sorensen’s] motives behind repeatedly
approaching G.S. during class time were self-serving given that G.S.
explained it was not to assist her with schoolwork, was of a personal nature,
and was not sought or welcomed by G.S. No one else had anything to gain from [Sorensen’s]
personal contacts with G.S. The motive behind petitioner calling a student
princess is unclear, but there is no evidence it was praiseworthy. [Sorensen’s]
motives behind his criminal convictions are inferably blameworthy, as they
involve violations of law, including failure to appear in court.  
 
“It is a
reasonable inference that [petitioner] had a blameworthy motive in asking G.S.
that she and other girls from her dance team perform a dance for the baseball
team like his inappropriate video where the girls ‘were—dancing like, basically
strippers. They were bending over, dancing very feminine, but in an
inappropriate way,’ ‘bending over ... [w]ith their butts," and ‘twerking.’
Perhaps, he intended to benefit the baseball team or perhaps he wanted
accolades from his team for orchestrating such a performance for them.  Nevertheless, either motive is blameworthy as
such an inappropriate video, dance request, and dance itself objectify the
female students, and demonstrate for the young baseball players that such is
appropriate. Further, [Sorensen’s] attempt at secrecy demonstrates that his
motive was blameworthy. Had he harbored a praiseworthy motive, he would not
have felt it necessary to tell G.S. ‘that it should just stay between [G.S.]
and him.’ Rather, in making the secrecy request of G.S., [petitioner’s] blameworthy
motive was to hide his misconduct from another adult. Therefore, this factor
weighs against [Sorensen’s] fitness.”  Ex. A, pp. 45-46 (¶¶ 58-59) (citations omitted
and emphasis added).
            
            The Commission argues that Sorensen fails
to state how this analysis is inadequate.  To be sure, the Commission considered various
plausible motives for Sorensen’s misconduct—e.g., he may have intended to
benefit the baseball team or may have wanted accolades from the team for
organizing the dance and found neither of these motives praiseworthy; rather,
they both were blameworthy.  Opp. at 8.
            The court accepts the Commission’s
conclusion that Sorensen’s motives behind repeatedly
approaching G.S. during class time were self-serving.  However, the new decision confuses wrongdoing
with motive with respect to the dance request, inappropriate video, and dance
itself in concluding that it objectifies the female students and suggests to the
young baseball players that such is appropriate.  This is a conclusion about misconduct, not
motive.  Sorensen’s attempt at secrecy
shows guilty knowledge, but it does not show a blameworthy motive.  
            No
conclusion can be drawn about whether Sorensen’s motives were blameworthy.
 
            E. Conclusion
It is clear after remand that the Commission revoked
Sorensen’s credentials based on a secret dance request and a video.  The court found serious reasons to doubt the
Commission’s decision, which was full of conclusions and not many facts, and
that remains true.  The Commission
admitted that many allegations were unproved, and those that were proved were
mostly based on generalities and almost totally on G.S.’s testimony.  
The Commission accepted G.S.’s testimony that Sorensen would
approach students in class multiple times in the same period, he asked a
student to get him lunch during class time, and he asked a student to go check
with players to see what they were bringing as potluck.  AR 58. 
The Commission concluded that Sorensen had committed unprofessional
conduct by approaching students in class to discuss personal matters, which
interfered with education time.  AR
62.  This behavior evidenced
overfamiliarity with students and failed to maintain professional boundaries
with students.  AR 62.  Although they were proved, the Commission
could not seriously conclude that these allegations justify revocation of
Sorensen’s right to teach.  Nor did the
Commission believe that the misdemeanor convictions or using the term
“Princess” had a strong bearing on the revocation issue.  AR 71.
This left the Commission’s conclusions about Sorensen’s
request for G.S. to organize a dance for the baseball team and showing her a
video involving “twerking” and “stripper moves” which made G.S.
uncomfortable.  AR 58.  The court concluded that there is much that
is not known about this video, including its contents, whether G.S. was correct
that it involved stripper moves and twerking, whether G.S. is naive or
inordinately sensitive, and whether the video is objectively a sexual
video.  If not, the Commission would be
left with an incident in which Sorensen tried to get G.S. to organize dancing
for the baseball team and hid that fact from the dance supervisor.  Should Sorensen’s credentials be revoked on
that basis, or for the totality of evidence stated by the court?  The ALJ thought not, and only recommended a
public reprimand.  In light of the
unknown, the Commission’s decision to revoke was dubious.
Nonetheless, the court noted that it may not overturn a
penalty unless there has been a manifest abuse of discretion (Lake, supra, 47 Cal.App.3d at 228), and cannot
substitute its discretion for that of the agency on the degree of
punishment.  Nightingale, supra, 7 Cal.3d at 515.  Most
important, the policy importance of a properly considered video is a
matter within the expertise of the Commission in determining penalty
questions.  See Cadilla, supra, 26 Cal.App.3d at 961.  The
court remanded the case to the Commission to take further action with respect
to the Morrison analysis that properly considers the issues.
            The Commission’s new decision does
not comply with the Writ because it fails to address the strongly mitigating
fact that no decision-maker can verify that the video was objectively offensive.  There is no basis to revoke on other grounds.  The Commission cannot reach a conclusion that
the video was “wildly inappropriate” based solely on G.S.’s testimony that the
cheerleaders in the video were “‘dancing like, basically, strippers,’” and
“bending over, dancing very feminine” with their butts” and “‘twerking’”.  Ex. A, pp. 9–10 (¶¶ 21–22).  
            This is not a circumstance in which
the court is intruding on the “the policy importance of a properly considered
video” as the Commission argues.  See Cadilla,
supra, 26 Cal.App.3d at 961. If the video were objectively inappropriate
– based either on a decision-maker’s viewing or more detailed testimony by G.S.
-- the Commission would be within its discretion to revoke on the basis that
the public, schoolchildren and the profession would not be adequately protected
by a more lenient degree of adverse action than revocation of Sorensen’s
credentials.  Opp. at 5.  But neither circumstance exists here.  
            The motion is granted.  The court will discuss with counsel whether to
remand to the Commission for a third consideration of the revocation penalty or
direct the Commission to set aside its revocation of Sorensen’s credentials and
impose such lesser penalty as exists within its discretion.


