 Case Number:  24STCV00423    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  85 
Artful Dodger v. Kristina Ho, et al., 
24STCV00423  

Tentative decision
on application for writ of possession: granted




 



Plaintiff Artful Dodger, Inc. (“Artful Dodger”) seeks a writ
of possession against Defendant Star Source International (USA), Inc. (“Star
Source”) for two pallets of hardwood flooring purchased from KRB Beverly Hills
LLC (“KRB”).    
The court has read and considered the moving papers and Star
Source’s untimely response (no opposition was filed) and renders the following
tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Complaint
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against
Defendants alleging claims for breach of written contract, claim and delivery,
conversion, common count, negligence, and quasi-contract restitution.  The Complaint alleges in pertinent part as
follows.  
In or about November of 2018, Wayne Marmorstein
(“Marmorstein”) on behalf of Artful Dodger contacted KRB and spoke with Ho about
hardwood flooring (the “Flooring”) Artful Dodger wanted to purchase from KRB
for a construction project.  
On or about December 3, 2018, Artful Dodger and KRB entered
into a written contract in the form of invoices for the purchase of hardwood
flooring from KRB (the “Contract”).  The Contract
was modified on or about December 7, 2018, and again on or about April 25,
2019.  The Contract contains an attorney
fees provision.  The final purchase price
of the Flooring, including $750 shipping and delivery and 9.50% California
sales tax, was $79,880.97.  Artful Dodger
paid an initial deposit of $51,922.63 and paid the balance in January of
2020.   
Artful Dodger is informed and believes, and upon that basis
alleges, that in or about February of 2020, KRB delivered the Flooring to a
warehouse of Star Source which KRB used to store flooring until the customers
were ready to pick up the flooring, and where it was to be similarly held for
Plaintiff.  In February of 2020, Artful
Dodger had one-half of the shipment picked up from the warehouse and delivered to
the job site where the Flooring was to be installed.  
In or about July of 2023, Artful Dodger attempted to obtain
the balance of the Flooring (the “Remaining Flooring”) from the warehouse for
delivery to the job site but was unable to do so after multiple communications
demanding the release thereof.  Artful
Dodger ultimately was informed that the Remaining Flooring was not at the
warehouse.  
Artful Dodger has performed all terms and conditions
required of it under the Contract except for any additional terms and
conditions which were excused by reason of KRB’s material breach of contract
and/or other lawful excuse.  KRB has
materially breached the Contract by failing to provide the Remaining Flooring
to Artful Dodger upon request.  
Artful Dodger is informed and believes, and upon that basis
alleges, that the cost of replacing the Remaining Flooring would be at least
$54,852.   It also is reasonably likely that new flooring
will not match that which Artful Dodger already received so that it will be
necessary to replace the entire order in order for all flooring to match, which
would cost at least $109,704.  There
would be an additional cost of approximately $8,545 for removal and replacement
of the existing flooring. 
As a direct and proximate result of the foregoing breach of
contract, Artful Dodger has been damaged in an amount according to proof, but
which is estimated to be at least $118,249, along with interest thereon.  
 
2. Cross-Complaint 
On June 26, 2024, Defendant Star Source filed a
Cross-Complaint against KRB, Ho, and Artful Dodger alleging claims for breach
of written contract, unjust enrichment, common count, quantum meruit, alter
ego, and declaratory relief.  The
Cross-Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows.
On or around February 19, 2020, Star Source and KRB entered
into a written storage contract in which KRB would store certain property with
Star Source in exchange for KRB’s payment of certain monthly fees.  Ho signed the agreement on behalf of
KRB.  
Pursuant to the agreement, KRB began storing hardwood
flooring with Star Source starting in February 2020.  By October 2020, KRB had stopped paying the
full monthly fee to Star Source.  On or
around September 30, 2021, KRB stopped paying monthly fees to Star Source
altogether.  As of June 2024, KRB owes
Star Source accrued monthly fees in excess of $38,000.  
From February 19, 2020 to the present, KRB has had pallets
of wooden flooring in storage with Star Source. 
Based on the instructions of KRB, Star Source would occasionally release
pallets of hardwood flooring to parties designated by KRB to receive such
pallets.  Star Source still maintains
storage of certain pallets of wooden flooring for KRB, despite the lack of
payment for such storage services.  
 
3. Course of Proceedings 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Artful Dodger filed the
Complaint. 
On February 20, 2024, Defendants were personally served.
On June 26, 2024, Defendant Star Source filed its Answer as
well as a Cross-Complaint against KRB, Ho, and Artful Dodger.
On July 23, 2024, Artful Dodger filed its Answer to Star
Source’s Cross-Complaint. 
On July 24, 2024, Defendant Ho filed her Answer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint as well as Star Source’s Cross-Complaint.  
On December 12, 2024, the court heard Plaintiff’s
application for a writ of possession and continued the hearing to the instant
date for Plaintiff to file a memorandum of points and authorities.  Plaintiff filed and served a supporting
memorandum and supplemental declarations on December 23, 2024.
 
B. Applicable Law
A writ of possession is issued as a provisional remedy in a
cause of action for claim and delivery, also known as replevin.  See
Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro v. Schectman, (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279,
1288.  As a provisional remedy, the right
to possession is only temporary, and title and the right to possess are
determined in the final judgment.  
            A
writ of possession is available in any pending action.  It also is available where an action has been
stayed pending arbitration, so long as the arbitration award may be ineffectual
without provisional relief.  See CCP §1281.7. 
 
            1. Procedure
            Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, a plaintiff may apply
for an order for a writ of possession. 
Unlike attachment, where Judicial Council forms are optional, the
parties must use the mandatory approved Judicial Council forms in a claim and
delivery proceeding.  (Judicial Council
Forms CD-100 et seq.).
            A
plaintiff must make a written application for a writ of possession.  CCP §512.010(a), (b); (Mandatory Form
CD-100); CCP §512.010(a).  A verified
complaint alone is insufficient.  6
Witkin, California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) §255, p.203.  The application may be supported by
declarations and/or a verified complaint. 
CCP §516.030.  The declarations or
complaint must set forth admissible evidence except where expressly permitted
to be shown on information and belief.  Id.
            The
application must be executed under oath and include: (1) A showing of the basis
of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of
the property claimed.  If the plaintiff's
claim is based on a written instrument, a copy of it must be attached; (2) A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, how the
defendant came into possession of it, and, the reasons for the detention based
on the plaintiff’s best knowledge, information, and belief; (3) A specific description
of the property and statement of its value; (4) The location of the property
according to the plaintiff’s best knowledge, information, and belief.  If the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing of probable cause to believe that the property is located there; and
(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for (a) a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute, or (b) an execution against the plaintiff’s
property.  Alternatively, a statement
that if the property was seized for one of these purposes, it is by statute
exempt from such seizure.  CCP
§512.010(b).
 
            2. The Hearing
            Before
noticing a hearing, the plaintiff must serve the defendant with all of the
following: (1) A copy of the summons and complaint; (2) A Notice of Application
and Hearing; and (3) A copy of the application and any supporting declaration.  CCP §512.030(a).  If the defendant has not appeared in the
action, service must be made in the same manner as service of summons and
complaint.  CCP §512.030(b).
            Each
party shall file with the court and serve upon the other party any declarations
and points and authorities intended to be relied upon at the hearing.  CCP §512.050. 
At the hearing, the court decides the merits of the application based on
the pleadings and declarations.   Id.  Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
receive and consider additional evidence and authority presented at the hearing,
or it may continue the hearing for the production of such additional evidence,
oral or documentary, or the filing of other affidavits or points and
authorities.  Id.  
            The
court may order issuance of a writ of possession if both of the following are
found: (1) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the
plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property; and (2) The undertaking
requirements of CCP section 515.010 are satisfied.  CCP §512.060(a).  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.”  CCP
§511.090.  This requires that the
plaintiff establish a prima facie case; the writ shall not issue if the
defendant shows a reasonable probability of a successful defense to the claim
and delivery cause of action.  Witkin,
California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) §261, p.208.  A defendant’s claim of defect in the property
is not a defense to the plaintiff’s right to possess it.  RCA Service Co. v. Superior Court,
(1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 1, 3.
            No
writ directing the levying officer to enter a private place to take possession
of any property may be issued unless the plaintiff has established that there
is probable cause to believe that the property is located there.  CCP §512.060(b).  
            The
successful plaintiff may obtain a preliminary injunction containing the same
provisions as a TRO that remains in effect until the property is seized by the
levying officer.[1]  CCP §513.010(c).  
            The
court may also issue a “turnover order” directing the defendant to transfer
possession of the property to the plaintiff (See Mandatory Form CD-120). 
The order must notify the defendant that failure to comply may subject
him or her to contempt of court.  CCP
§512.070.  The turnover remedy is not
issued in lieu of a writ, but in conjunction with it to provide the plaintiff
with a less expensive means of obtaining possession.  See
Edwards v Superior Court, (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173, 178.
 
            3. The Plaintiff’s Undertaking
            Generally,
the court cannot issue an order for a writ of possession until the plaintiff
has filed an undertaking with the court (Mandatory Form CD-140 for personal
sureties).  CCP §515.010(a).  The undertaking shall provide that the
sureties are bound to the defendant for the return of the property to the
defendant, if return of the property is ordered, and for the payment to the
defendant of any sum recovered against the plaintiff.  Id. 
The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice the value of
the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.  Id. 
The value of the defendant's interest in the property is determined by
the market value of the property less the amount due and owing on any
conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens and encumbrances
on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine the defendant’s
interest in the property.  Id.
            However,
where the defendant has no interest in the property, the court must waive the requirement
of the plaintiff’s undertaking and include in the order for issuance of the
writ the amount of the defendant’s undertaking sufficient to satisfy the
requirements of CCP section 515.020(b).  CCP
§515.010(b). 
 
C. Statement of Facts
            1.
Plaintiff’s Evidence 
In December 2018, Artful Dodger purchased the Flooring -- Legno
Bastone’s St. Moritz-Italian Collection hardwood flooring -- from KRB for the
total sum of $79,880.97, which was paid in full.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶3, Ex. A.  At the time, KRB operated a retail store in
the Pacific Design Center in West Hollywood, California.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶3.  
            Marmorstein,
Artful Dodger’s Chief Executive Officer, had all of Artful Dodger’s dealings
with KRB.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶3.  Ho and Wendy Kneedler (“Kneedler”) were the
persons at KRB with whom Marmorstein primarily interacted.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶4.  Ho was a part-owner of KRB and Kneedler was
the former manager of the KRB store. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶4.  
            In
or about early January of 2020, Marmorstein was informed  that the Flooring had been received from the
manufacturer.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶5.  He understood that KRB would store
the Flooring until Marmorstein requested that it be delivered.  He did not know where it was being stored and
did not definitively determine that it was being stored at Star Source until
the deposition of Mandy Wang (“Wang”) taken in 2024.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶5.  
In February 2020, Marmorstein contacted Kneedler and
requested that some of the Flooring be delivered to 1861 North Crescent Heights
Blvd.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶5.  No one at KRB or Star Source ever informed Artful
Dodger to have the remaining Flooring removed from storage.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶5.  
            In
or around July of 2023, Marmorstein sought to have the Remaining Flooring
delivered.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.  KRB was no longer in business.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.  Marmorstein called and spoke with Kneedler, who
informed him that KRB had stored flooring at Star Source.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.   
            On
July 13, 2023, Marmorstein called Star Source to find out if the Remaining Flooring
was stored there.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶7.  He told Wang that he would send her
the paid invoice and a photo of the Flooring just before it left the
manufacturers warehouse.  Marmorstein
Decl., ¶7.  Wang provided an email address,
and he sent an email to her with a copy of a receipt for the purchase.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶7.  Later that same day, Marmorstein received an
email from “Alice” of Star Source in which stated: “Sorry, we can’t be of any
help. Please contact KRB Beverly Hills LLC dba PERFEC Floors”.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  
            Marmorstein
contacted Kneedler again, and thereafter Ho, for assistance in obtaining
release of the Remaining Flooring. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  Based upon
his subsequent emails with Kneedler and Ho, Marmorstein understood that
Kneedler called Star Source and requested that the Remaining Flooring be
released.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  Star Source did not do so.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  
            At
her deposition, Wang testified that Star Source has the Remaining Flooring as
well as other pallets of flooring stored by KRB.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶9.  The monthly storage charge for the Flooring
is $36 per pallet.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶9.  
            Marmorstein
sent a letter on behalf of Artful Dodger to Yu Lin Wang (“Yu Lin”) of Star
Source by priority mail on October 3, 2024, with a check enclosed therewith
payable to Star Source in the amount of $5,000. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶10, Ex. D.   
            Artful
Dodger had no contractual relationship with Star Source. Nor did it have any
business relationship with KRB other than as a customer purchasing wood
flooring.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶11.  
            The
price for the non-engineered flooring per square foot which Artful Dodger
purchased from KRB was $13.99 per square foot, plus 9.50% tax and shipping.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  The engineered flooring which it purchased
from KRB is much more expensive. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  The wood
flooring Marmorstein saw at the Star Source warehouse in 2024 was shrink
wrapped so he could not inspect individual pieces to determine how much of each
is still there.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶12.  The current price for the same type
of non-engineered flooring is approximately $22.99 per square foot, which is
$9.00 per square foot more than what he paid to KRB.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  Marmorstein thus estimates that it would cost
Artful Dodger $35,767.72 to purchase two pallets of non-engineered flooring of
the same type being held by Star Source. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  
 
            2.
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Evidence 
            Artful
Dodger purchased five pallets of Flooring from KRB, and two pallets of
Remaining Flooring remain at the warehouse of Star Source.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶2.  Artful Dodger fully paid KRB for the purchase
of the five pallets of the Flooring; Star Source has no ownership interest it.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶2.  
            Artful
Dodger did not enter into any contract with Star Source.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶3.  Nor did it have any involvement with KRB’s
storage of flooring at Star Source. 
Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶3. 

            Artful
Dodger tendered a $5000 check to Star Source. 
Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶4. 
Based on review of Wang’s deposition and the exhibits thereto, including
the $36 amount Star Source charges per pallet, and 10% late charges, the $5,000
tendered was more than the total of the storage fees and late charges which
Star Source could reasonably contend was owing to it for the Remaining Flooring.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶4.  Artful Dodger believes that Star Source is
refusing to release the Remaining Flooring to improperly force Artful Dodger to
pay storage charges for KRB's separately owned wood flooring.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶4.  
            Star
Source has been provided with ample information and documentation to establish
Artful Dodger's ownership of the two pallets of Remaining Flooring.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶5.  Star Source has been provided the invoices
and records of payment to KRB. 
Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶5. 
Star Source's own records show that the two pallets of flooring are part
of the same inventory as the three that were released.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶5.  Star Source has not set forth any facts
showing that anyone else claims to own them and Wang admitted at her deposition
that Star Source never contacted anyone for that purpose.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶5. 
            On
November 18, 2024, Defendant Star Source provided a response to Artful Dodger’s
Demand for Bill of Particulars. 
Petrokofsky Supplemental Decl., ¶3, Ex. A.  
 
D. Analysis
Plaintiff Artful
Dodger seeks a writ of possession for the Remaining Flooring against Defendant
Star Source.  No opposition is on file.  Star Source filed an untimely response on
January 3, 2025, stating that it claims no ownership of the Remaining Flooring
and wants to return it to its rightful owner. 
Resp. at 1.[2]  
 
1. Probable Validity
In December 2018, Artful Dodger purchased the Flooring --
Legno Bastone’s St. Moritz-Italian Collection hardwood flooring -- from KRB for
the total sum of $79,880.97, which was paid in full.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶3, Ex. A.  At the time, KRB operated a retail store in
the Pacific Design Center in West Hollywood, California.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶3.  
            In
or about early January of 2020, Marmorstein was informed that the Flooring had
been received from the manufacturer. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶5.  He
understood that KRB would store the Flooring until Marmorstein requested that
it be delivered.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶5.  
In February 2020, Marmorstein contacted Kneedler and
requested that some of the Flooring be delivered to 1861 North Crescent Heights
Blvd.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶5.  In or around July of 2023, Marmorstein sought
to have the Remaining Flooring delivered. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.  KRB was no
longer in business.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶6.  Marmorstein called and spoke with
Kneedler, who informed him that KRB had stored flooring at Star Source.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.   
            On
July 13, 2023, Marmorstein called Star Source to find out if the Remaining
Flooring was stored there.  Marmorstein
Decl., ¶7.  Based upon his subsequent
emails with Kneedler and Ho, Marmorstein understood that Kneedler called Star
Source and requested that the Remaining Flooring be released.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  Star Source did not do so.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  
            At
her deposition, Wang testified that Star Source has the Remaining Flooring as
well as other pallets of flooring stored by KRB.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶9.  The monthly storage charge for the Flooring
is $36 per pallet.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶9.  
Artful Dodger tendered a $5000 check to Star Source.  Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶4.  Based on review of Wang’s deposition and the
exhibits thereto, including the $36 amount Star Source charges per pallet, and
10% late charges, the $5,000 tendered was more than the total of the storage
fees and late charges which Star Source could reasonably contend was owing to
it for the Remaining Flooring. 
Marmorstein Supplemental Decl., ¶4. 

Star Source argues
that the court should not find that it is wrongfully detaining the Remaining
Flooring as that is an issue for trial. 
Resp. at 3.  Not so.  A writ of possession can issue based on the
probable validity of Artful Dodger’s claim.
Artful Dodger has shown a probability of success in its
claim that it owns the Remaining Flooring which is being stored at Star Source
and has tendered more than a sufficient amount to pay for its storage.
 
2. Undertaking
            The
undertaking required by CCP section 515.010(a) is an amount not less than twice
the value of the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater
amount.  Id.  The value of the defendant's interest in the
property is determined by the market value of the property less the amount due
and owing on any conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens
and encumbrances on the property.  Id.  
Star Source points out that Artful Dodger has not filed an
undertaking.  Resp. at 3.  However, the Remaining Flooring’s fair market
value is $35,767.72 and there is no amount owed to KRB. Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  Star Source has no claim of ownership in the
Remaining Flooring and no reasonable claim of lien for storage.  No undertaking is required from Artful
Dodger.  Star Source’s redelivery bond
shall be $35,767.72.
 
3. Location of the Remaining Flooring
There is probable cause to believe the Remaining Flooring is
currently located at Star Source’s warehouse. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  The
levying officer may enter this location to recover the Remaining Flooring.  CCP §512.060(b).  
 
E. Conclusion
The application for a writ of possession is granted.  No undertaking is required from Artful
Dodger.  Star Source’s redelivery bond
shall be $35,767.72.  Artful Dodger has
not submitted a right to attach order and shall do so within two court days or
it will be deemed as waived.


