 Case Number:  22CMCV00593    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00593
 Jane Doe v. Doe #1
Tuesday,
 January 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADING 
 
                                                                                                                                                    
I.       BACKGROUND
      The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was
the victim of childhood sexual assault allegedly perpetrated by her teacher,
Robert Jaco. The alleged abuse occurred between 1982 through 1983, when
Plaintiff was approximately 15/16 years old and attending Centennial High
School. Plaintiff alleges six causes of action including negligence, negligent
supervision, and intentional infliction of emotional distress arising from the
alleged incidents.
                                                                                                                                                     
II.           
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant, Compton Unified School District
(“Defendant” or “District”), demurs all causes of action on grounds the enacting
legislation, AB 218, that revived Plaintiff’s claims, is unconstitutional
because it provides a gift of public funds, removes a necessary element of a
government claim, and unlawfully creates new liability where none existed
before. The claims otherwise fail for lack of specificity, uncertainty, and for
failure to allege a claim.
      Plaintiff argues there has not been an
actual appropriation of public funds. The revival of a lapsed claim does not
remove an element of a government claim, nor does the revival statute create
liability. The revival statute serves a public purpose. Defendant asks the
Court to usurp the authority of the legislature. The claims are adequately
alleged.
      In reply, Defendant clarifies that the
three bases for the motion are (1) whether the claims are alleged with required
specificity; (2) whether AB 218 creates new liability for past negligence; (3) and
if so, does the statute serve a public purpose. The Court has authority to
determine constitutional limitations. Plaintiff does not allege specific facts.
                                                                                                                                           
III.          
LEGAL STANDARDS
      The
two statutory grounds for a defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is
either that the court does not have jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action, or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a claim
against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438 subd. (c)(B).) 
      A
motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general
demurrer and attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
subject to judicial notice. (Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.) Accordingly, all properly alleged material facts are
deemed true as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those
expressly alleged.  (Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)The court may not consider
contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)
                                                                                                                                                      
IV.         
DISCUSSION
A.     
Defendant
has not established that AB 218 is unconstitutional.
      The
interpretation of a statute and whether it is constitutional are questions of
law. (Valov
v. Department of Motor Vehicles
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1120.) Defendant contends that AB 218, which enacted Civil Procedure §
340.1 reviving childhood sexual abuse claims and eliminating the requirement
that the plaintiff present a tort claim prior to filing suit against a government
entity are unlawful gifts of public funds in violation of the California
Constitution.       The California
Constitution provides that the legislature has no power “to make any gift or
authorize the making of any gift * * * of any public money or thing of value to
any individual * * *; provided, that nothing in this section shall prevent the
Legislature granting aid pursuant to Section 21 of this article … .” (Cal. Const., art. XVI, § 6; County
of Alameda v. Carleson (1971) 5
Cal.3d 730, 745 (the “Gift
Clause”).) The term “gift” is not limited to the transfer of personal property
without consideration, but includes all appropriations of public money, for
which there is no authority or enforceable claim. (Conlin
v. Board of Sup'rs of City and County of San Francisco (1893) 99 Cal. 17, 21.) 
      Defendant
cites Bourn
v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal. 321; Conlin
v. Board of Sup'rs of City and County of San Francisco (1893) 99 Cal. 17; and Powell
v. Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271 as examples of unconstitutional gifts of
public funds. All these cases are distinguishable. In Bourne, the legislature passed a special act to compensate a prison guard who
had been injured while in the State’s employment, although the state was not
previously liable. (Id.)  The
court held that if the state desired to make itself liable, it had to enact a
general law to embrace all cases coming into its provisions. 
      In
contrast, AB 218 does not appropriate public funds for one person’s injury
claim, but rather revives a lapsed claims of the victims of childhood sexual
assault in general, so long as the statutory requirements are me. Bourn is
distinguishable. (Id.) at 328 [“A legislative appropriation made to an
individual in payment of a claim for damages on account of personal injuries
sustained by him while in its service, and for which the state is not
responsible, either upon general principles of law or by reason of some
previous statute creating such liability, is a gift within the meaning of the
constitution. The appropriation made to petitioner was a mere gratuitous
assumption of an obligation from which the state was and is exempt." (Bourn
at 328.)
      Conlin
is equally distinguishable. There, the legislature passed a law authorizing the
City & County of San Francisco to pay John Conlin, specifically, $54,015 to
a contractor for work done upon public streets pursuant to a contract that
remained unpaid. That case involved appropriation of public funds for a
particular person’s benefit, not for a public purpose.  (Conlin
at 20.).
      Defendant
next cites Powell
v. Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271, which is inapposite. At the time of a
particular juror’s completion of jury service, jurors did not have legal
entitlement to payment for such service. Thereafter, the Legislature passed a
law providing for the payment of juror fees in all counties. (Powell at
213). The court held that the gift clause did not allow “any room for moral
considerations.” (Powell
at 274.) At the time of the juror’s service, there
was no law making such services a charge against the City and County of San
Francisco, and the creation of such liability was an unconstitutional gift of
public funds. (Id.) These cases do not apply, because AB 218 did not
attempt to “create” liability where none had previously existed.
      Defendant
asserts that AB 218 impermissibly creates liability against a public
entity for past acts of negligence which were unenforceable at the time the law
changed, and which constitutes an unlawful gift. However, the causes of action
at issue are based on liability imposed by Gov. Code § 815.2. The statute
creating liability against a public entity was enacted in 1963. AB 218 did not
“create” an entirely new liability where none had existed before. It enacted a
“revival provision expressly and unequivocally encompassing claims of childhood
sexual abuse previously barred for failure to present a timely government
claim.” (Coats
v. New Haven Unified School District
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 430–431.)
      Defendant’s
reliance on Chapman
v. State (1894) 104 Cal. 690, 694 is equally misplaced. In Chapman, the
plaintiff alleged negligence against the state based on a statute enacted after
plaintiff’s claims arose. The plaintiff sued the state for the loss of its coal
when a large part of the wharf where the coal was stored broke away from the
wharf due to the State’s alleged negligence. (Id. at 692.) 
      At
the time the incident took place, the state was not liable for damage absent a
statute voluntarily assuming such liability. The court acknowledged that to “create”
liability for a past act of negligence violated the constitutional prohibition
against gifts of public money. (Id. at 693.) However, the Coats
court characterized AB 218’s amendments as a “revival” of a previously barred
cause of action for failure to timely present a government action, not the
creation of new liability, as Defendant characterizes the legislation. (Coats at 430–431.)
      Defendant
argues that the claims presentation requirement under the Government Tort
Claims Act is a substantive element of a claim for alleged abuse or molestation,
and Plaintiff’s failure to comply is a complete defense to the claims.
Defendant contends that the legislature cannot excuse a substantive element of
any claim against a public entity. (Shirk
v. Vista Unified School Dist.
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 201, 209
["Timely claim presentation is not merely a procedural requirement, but
is, as this court long ago concluded, ‘a condition precedent to plaintiff's
maintaining an action against defendant’ [citations omitted], and thus an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action."].)
      However,
in direct response to Shirk, the legislature enacted Government Code,
section 905, subd. (m) which eliminated the claims presentation requirement for
claims pursuant to Civil Procedure, section 340.1 for damages for childhood
sexual abuse. (A.M.
v. Ventura Unified School Dist.
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1252, 1258.) The enacting legislation, S.B. 640, was “intended to address the Shirk
decision by expressly providing that childhood sexual abuse actions against
public entities are exempted from presentation requirements, but only for
claims arising out of conduct occurring on or after January 1, 2009.” (Id.)
Therefore, Defendant’s reliance on Shirk for the proposition that AB 218
unconstitutionally gifts public funds by removing an element of a cause of
action (claims presentation requirements) is misplaced, given the legislature’s
passage of Gov Code, section 905 subd. (m) in response to Shirk.  
      Moreover,
the exemption for claims presentation requirements applicable to claims arising
on or after November January 1, 2009, was subsequently eliminated by the
passage of AB 218 and added that the changes were retroactive. (Gov Code § 905
subd (p). Plaintiff filed this action on November 28, 2022. The version of the
statute in effect at the time of filing provided that any claim not litigated
to finality and that would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020 “because
the applicable statute of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any
other time limit had expired, is revived, and these claims may be commenced
within three years of January 1, 2020.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1 (q).) 
      Finally,
Defendant unpersuasively contends that AB 218 does not serve a public purpose
and therefore constitutes a gift of public funds. Funds expended for a public
purpose does not constitute a “gift” although private persons may benefit. (Id.
at 746.) The existence of a gift is determined by the legislature although the
courts can infer the public purpose from other legislation or the way the
legislation is enacted. (Scott v. State Bd. of Equalization (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1597, 1604; Jordan
v. California Dept. of Motor Vehicles
(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431, 450 [“It is well settled that the primary question to be considered in
determining whether an appropriation of public funds is to be considered a gift
is whether the funds are to be used for a public or private purpose. If they
are to be used for a public purpose, they are not a gift within the meaning of
this constitutional prohibition. [Citation.]"].) 
      Thus,
while Defendant also relies on Jordan, that case supports Plaintiff’s
contention that AB 218 serves a public purpose. The retroactivity provision
of section 340.1 “indicates a clear legislative intent to maximize
claims of sexual-abuse minor plaintiffs for as expansive a period as possible.
The public policy is manifest from the text of the law.” (Liebig v. Superior Court (1989)
209 Cal.App.3d 828, 834.)         
      The
second case on which Defendant relies also supports Plaintiff. The relevant
inquiry in determining whether the use of public funds is a gift is whether the
funds are to be used for a public or private purpose. If they are to be used
for a public purpose, they are not a gift within the meaning of this
constitutional prohibition. (Orange
County Foundation v. Irvine Co.
(1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 195, 200.)

B.     
The
claims are adequately alleged with required specificity.
      A public entity is not liable for an
injury “[e]xcept as provided by statute.” (Gov. Code § 815.) Plaintiff must
allege sufficiently detailed facts to support an inference that each of the
statutory elements of liability is satisfied. General allegations are regarded
as inadequate. (Mittenhuber
v. City of Redondo Beach (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 1, 5.) Moreover,
“[s]ince the duty of a governmental agency can only be created by statute or
‘enactment,‘ the statute or ‘enactment‘ claimed to establish the duty must at
the very least be identified." (Searcy
v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986)
177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.)
      The
claim for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision is adequately based on
statute. Plaintiff alleges that the District is liable for the failure of its
employees, staff, and supervisors, for hiring and retaining Doe 2, for which
the District is liable under Gov. Code, § 815.2 ["A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his
personal representative"].)  Plaintiff
also relies on Government Code, section 820, which provides that a public
employee is liable for injury caused by his act or omission to the same extent
as a private person. (Gov. Code, § 820.) 
      Defendant
contends that the claim fails because Plaintiff seeks to hold the District
liable for the criminal conduct of a third party for which a statutory duty is
required.  (Demurrer, 14:6-14.) However,
as noted previously, Plaintiff’s claims against the District are based on its
employees’ and supervisors’ negligence in hiring, retaining, supervising, or
training Robert Jaco, or for its failure to supervise and protect the Plaintiff
for which vicarious liability exists. (Gov. Code, sections 815.2 and 820; Complaint,
¶ 38.) The District’s duty arises from a special relationship between it and
the student, which "entailed the duty to take reasonable measures to
protect plaintiff from injuries at the hands of others in the school
environment." (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 877.)
      Defendant
contends that Plaintiff is required to specifically identify the names of
witnesses, the date of the events, where, or what was witnessed. (JOP,
15:8-16.)  Plaintiff is not required to
allege evidentiary facts. Identifying individuals by name is not required and
does not render the pleading uncertain. (Hart
at 872 [The claim that Plaintiff was required to
identify employees at the pleading stage was not supported by authority. “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff's proof need not be alleged.”].)
C.     
Judgment
on the Pleadings as to the fourth cause of action for failure to report
suspected child abuse is OVERRULED.
      Defendant contends that the claim is based
in part on alleged violations of the Child Assault and Neglect Reporting Act
(“CANRA”), codified at Penal Code Section 11165, et seq. (Complaint, ¶ 47.) To
the extent it is based on CANRA, Defendant argues it does not apply to public
entities, as “mandated reporters” are defined as individuals. (Pen. Code, § 11165.7.) 
      A
demurrer and likewise judgment on the pleadings cannot be sustained to part of
a cause of action. (Kong
v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047; Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452 [“Ordinarily, a general demurrer does not lie as to a portion of a
cause of action, and if any part of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the
demurrer will be overruled.”].) Regardless, liability against a public entity
may be vicarious, as previously explained. Additionally, Plaintiff is not
required to allege evidentiary facts, such as where the abuse occurred or the identity
of the employee who purportedly observed the abuse. (JOP 16:28-17:6.)
D.    
Judgment
on the Pleadings as to the claim for negligent supervision of a minor is
OVERRULED. 
      This
cause of action is not duplicative of the claim for general negligence as the
latter claim is specifically directed to DOES 41 through 50 only. (Complaint,
19:13.) The claim for negligent supervision includes the District and is based
specifically on the District’s duty owed to the minor to supervise and protect
the minor from known and knowable dangers posed by Jaco. (Complaint ¶ 59.) These
duties are imposed by the Education Code and Cal. Code Regs., tit. 5, § 5551. (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 871 [“Responsibility for the safety of public school students is not borne
solely by instructional personnel. School principals and other supervisory
employees, to the extent their duties include overseeing the educational
environment and the performance of teachers and counselors, also have the
responsibility of taking reasonable measures to guard pupils against harassment
and abuse from foreseeable sources, including any teachers or counselors they
know or have reason to know are prone to such abuse."].)
      Defendant
contends that it does not owe a duty to protect a student from a particular
type of risk. (JOP, 18:6-10.)  It does
not logically follow that the statutes on which Plaintiff relies do not protect
against childhood sexual abuse by school employees. The case on which Defendant
relies is distinguishable as it was decided in the context of a student who was
stabbed at school by a non-student. (Rodriguez
v. Inglewood Unified School Dist.
(1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 707, 712
[ "we must first consider whether a school district has a duty to protect
students from third party assaults occurring on the campus."]. The court
determined that the statutes cited by the plaintiff were not designed to
protect against the particular risk alleged. (Rodriguez
at 712.) 
      Defendant’s
contention that Plaintiff failed to plead and prove that the District knew of
any impropriety between Plaintiff and Jaco is without merit.  (JOP, 18:4-9.) Plaintiff alleges that the
District received prior complaints and warnings about Jaco’s improper behavior.
(Complaint, ¶ 60.) These allegations are sufficient to support the claim. Evidentiary
facts are not required. 
      The
complaint is not fatally uncertain for failure to allege evidentiary facts. Uncertainty
exists where a complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing, they do not
sufficiently apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
The allegations are sufficiently detailed and clear. Moreover, demurrers for
uncertainty are strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, “because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
      Additionally,
the complaint is not rendered defective because Plaintiff included Toll Middle
School in the complaint, although the alleged incidents occurred at Centennial
High School. Plaintiff acknowledges the clerical error. (Opp. 12:27-28.) 
 
V.   CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleading is DENIED. 
 
 