 Case Number:  22CMCV00598    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00598
 Lourdes Avalos Paz, et al. v. Kia America, Inc. 
Tuesday,
 January 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S COMPLIANCE AND PRODUCE DOCUMENTS
CORRESPONDING TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE)
 
      The
complaint alleges that Defendant issued a written express warranty to
Plaintiffs in connection with Plaintiffs’ lease of a 2022 Kia Nero-EV. The
vehicle developed electrical and other defects. Defendant allegedly failed to
comply with its statutory obligations to replace the vehicle or pay restitution
after failing to repair the defects, all in violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”).
      Plaintiffs
argue that on November 16, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
Defendant to serve verified supplemental responses to the request for
production of documents. Defendant did not comply. Plaintiffs have attempted to
meet and confer with Defendant by telephone and email and by letter dated
December 1, 2023. Defendant failed to comply with the Court’s order. 
      In
opposition, Defendant states it fully intends to comply with the Court’s order but
has been delayed due to circumstances beyond Defendant’s control. Plaintiffs
have requested a broad scope of documents which will take extensive time to
search for and compile.  Defendant
asserts there is good cause for the Court to extend the production date to
February 23, 2024. 
      In reply,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s opposition is not supported by a declaration
from anyone within Kia. Defendant was ordered to produce documents two months
ago.
      If a party fails to obey an order
compelling further response, “the court may make those orders that are just, … .”
(Code
Civ. Code, §. Proc., § 2031.310 subd. (1).) In opposition to
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to the document request,
Defendant argued without any evidence that Plaintiffs’ motion should be denied
because the requests were unduly burdensome. (Opp.
filed 11/2/23.) 
      Defendant repeats the same argument in
opposition to Plaintiffs’ current motion without a declaration from a person
with personal knowledge of the purported burden of conducting a search of
documents. Defendant has not shown good cause to extend the time to comply for
one more month given two months have passed since the Court ordered Defendant
to provide further responses and production. 
      Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion is
GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to comply with the Court’s November 16, 2023, order
within five days. As Plaintiffs did not request imposition of sanctions, none
is awarded. 
 