 Case Number:  23STCV06097    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06097




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Natividad Sandoval  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March 17, 2023, Plaintiff
Natividad Sandoval (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Adan
Valdez Gonzalez, Exel, Inc., Suppose U Drive, Inc., and Does 1 to 100 for
negligence stemming from a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff alleges that Adam
Valdez Gonzalez was operating the subject vehicle while in the course and scope
of employment with Exel Inc. (Complaint ¶ 7–8.) 
 
            Plaintiff
now moves to compel the deposition of Exel Inc.’s (“Defendant”) person most
knowledgeable (“PMK”). Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition
has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) 
 
“If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) 
 
The party served with a deposition
notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition
to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying
the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may
move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in
favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jill D. Levy states that she wrote to Defendant’s
counsel on February 21, 2024, February 22, 2024, and February 26, 2024 seeking
alternative dates for Defendant’s deposition. Therefore, it appears she made
reasonable attempts to resolve the issue.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff first noticed Exel, Inc.’s PMK deposition for February
23, 2024. (Levy Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) No objection was received and Plaintiff’s
request to confirm the deposition on February 20, 2024, went unanswered. (Id.
¶ 6.) On February 22, 2024, Defendant’s counsel canceled because he was engaged
in another deposition that would continue into the next day. (Id. ¶ 9.)
Defendant failed to offer alternative dates and so Plaintiff re-noticed the
deposition for April 8, 2024. (Id. ¶ 13, 15, Exh. H.) On April 7, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel stated he had to cancel the deposition because he was “under the
weather” since Thursday. (Id. ¶ 20, Exh. K.) On April 8, 2024, Defendant’s
PMK did not appear, and a certificate of nonappearance was obtained. (Id.
¶ 21, Exh. L.) Plaintiff asserts Defendant has not offered any alternative
dates since then. (Id. ¶ 22.) 
 
Since Defendant did not appear for the noticed deposition, and no
objection was served at least three days before, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
Plaintiff requests $3,384.95 in monetary sanctions against Defendant
and its attorneys, representing a $450 hourly rate, the $60 filing fee, and the
$624.95 court reporter fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted but the
amount requested is excessive given the type of motion and the fact no
opposition has filed. The Court therefore awards sanctions in the amount of $1,359.95
(1.5 hours of attorney time, the filing fee, and court reporter fee). 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff Natividad
Sandoval’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK is GRANTED.
The person most knowledgeable for Exel, Inc. shall appear for a deposition
within 10 days of this order.   
 
The Court further grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $1,359.95. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel
for Plaintiff within 30 days of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 