 Case Number:  23STCV19129    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


May
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV19129




MOTION


Motion
  to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  BOP FigAt7th LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Enedino Espinoza



 
MOTION
 
Defendant BOP FigAt7th LLC (“Defendant”) moves to continue trial and
all related deadlines. Co-defendants Universal Protection Service, LP and
Target Corporation have filed joinders to the motion. Plaintiff Enedino
Espinoza (“Plaintiff”) opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed August 10, 2023. Trial was set for February 6,
2025. Defendants filed various responsive pleadings and motions to strike. 
 
The second amended complaint was filed February 22, 2024. 
 
There has been no trial continuance in this case. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves to continue trial and all related dates to April 22,
2025. Defendant currently has reserved a summary judgment motion hearing on
February 20, 2025. The proposed continuance will allow for an additional 30
days to prepare for trial if the motion is unsuccessful. Defendant reserved the
hearing on January 26, 2024. The reserved date falls after the current trial
date of February 6, 2025. Co-defendants Universal Protection Service, LP and
Target Corporation have reserved summary judgment hearings for April 23, 2025,
and April 30, 2025, respectively. 
 
A
party that timely files a motion for summary judgment under Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c has a right to have their motion heard before the start
of trial. (Cole v. Superior Court¿(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
However, here, defendants have not yet filed their motions. Additionally, the
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order states the following: “If
the moving party deems the hearing date to be too far in the future (for
example, after the trial date), parties should check CRS from time to time because
earlier hearing dates may become available as cases settle or hearings are
taken off calendar.” (Eighth Amend. Standing Order, ¶ 9A.) Here,
it is possible Defendants could obtain an earlier date once they are ready to
file their motions. Considering that Defendant only reserved the date on
January 26, 2024, and has not filed its motion, the Court does not find good
cause to continue trial at this time. 
 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request that Defendants submit a
prehearing separate statement of undisputed material facts before filing their
summary judgment motions. Plaintiff provides no specific authority for ordering
this. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service of such.
 