 Case Number:  22STCV01372    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV01372




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Century Housing Corporation and
  Century Villages at Cabrillo, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Anaiya Smith, Jenell Nelson, and Jenine Nelson-Piggott



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement 
3.      Request for Judicial Notice 
4.      Compendium of Evidence
5.      Notice of Lodging Supporting Motion 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.      Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement
3.      Plaintiffs’ Request to Take Judicial Notice 
4.      Plaintiffs’ Objections to Defendants’
Evidence
5.      Compendium of Evidence in Support Volumes 1–3
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      Reply
2.      Defendants’ Response to Plaintiffs’ Separate
Statement
3.      Defendants’ Objections to Evidence 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 3, 2022, Plaintiffs Anaiya
Smith, a minor, Jenell Nelson, and Jenine Nelson-Piggott (“Plaintiffs”) filed
the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Century
Housing Corporation, Century Villages at Cabrillo, Inc., Quentin Darnell Black,
and Does 1 to 50 in a wrongful death action based on negligence and premises
liability. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that on June 12, 2021, Decedent Derrick Smith
(“Decedent”) was working as a security guard at the “Century Villages at
Cabrillo”, a residential housing community (“Premises”). The Premises are
alleged to be owned by Century Housing Corporation and Century Villages at
Cabrillo, Inc. (FAC ¶¶ 9, 13.) Decedent was working in a security guard shack
on the Premises when defendant Darnell Black (“Black”) drove his car at a high
rate of speed into the shack, killing Decedent. (Id. ¶ 21–23.) Plaintiffs
allege the guard shack did not have sufficient guardrails or barricades to
protect people within the shack. (Id. ¶ 15–16.) They also allege there
were insufficient signs, warning, or traffic control devices to instruct
drivers to slow down as they neared the guard shack. (Id. ¶ 19.) 
 
Against Moving Defendants Century Housing Corporation and Century
Villages at Cabrillo, Inc. (“Defendants”), the FAC alleges a single cause of
action for wrongful death resulting from premises liability, asserting that the
guard shack was in a dangerous condition. 
 
Defendants now move for
summary judgment against Plaintiffs arguing that (1) liability is barred under Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 and
that no exceptions apply; (2) Plaintiffs lack evidence that Defendants owed
Decedent a duty of care; (3) Plaintiffs lack evidence that a dangerous
condition existed; and (4) Plaintiffs lack evidence that Defendants had
knowledge of the dangerous condition. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice of exhibit
28. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) The Court denies Defendant’s requests for judicial
notice of the remaining exhibits: 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 18, 19, 21, 22, and 33.
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice of their
first amended complaint. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiffs’ objections numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 to Defendants’ evidence are
overruled.
The
Court declines to rule on objection number 5 as it has no effect on the ruling
herein. 
 
The following objections by Defendants to Plaintiffs’ evidence are
overruled: 1–7, 9–20, 22. The Court sustains objection number 8. The Court
declines to rule on objection numbers 21, 23–25 as they have no effect on the
ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence and Premises Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) Therefore, to prevail on a
claim for premises liability, Plaintiffs must prove: (1) defendant owned or
controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s
negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
“The owner of premises is under a
duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to
avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see Civil
Code § 1714.)
 
I. Privette Doctrine
 
Ordinarily, the person hiring an independent contractor is
not liable to the contractor's employees for workplace injuries.  The
independent contractor's employer's liability for such injuries is limited by
workers' compensation, as is the liability of the party who hired the
contractor.  (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693,
700-02; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245; Toland
v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, 264-70.) 
 
The Supreme Court has held that it would be unfair to
impose liability on the hiring person when the liability of the contractor, the
one primarily responsible for its worker’s workplace injuries, is limited to
providing workers’ compensation coverage.  As such, even if there is
evidence that the hirer was directly liable for the plaintiff’s injuries,
recovery is not available.  (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
693, 700-02.) 
 
Workers’
compensation “ ‘is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or
death of an employee.’ [Citation.]” … In Privette, the Supreme Court
held that “an independent contractor’s employee should not be allowed to
recover damages from the contractor’s hirer, who ‘is indirectly paying for the
cost of [workers’ compensation] coverage, which the [hired] contractor
presumably has calculated into the contract price.’ [Citation.]”
[Citation.]  
 
The Privette
holding was based on the principle that the hirer of an independent contractor
generally has “ ‘ “ ‘no right of control as to the mode of doing the work
contracted for.’ ” ’ ” [Citation.] Precisely because the hirer “has no
obligation to specify the precautions an independent hired contractor should
take for the safety of the contractor’s employees, ... [a]bsent an obligation, there
can be no liability in tort.” [Citation.]  
 
(Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 640.)  Moreover, “[t]he Privette line of
decisions establishes a presumption that an independent contractor’s hirer
‘delegates to that contractor its tort law duty to provide a safe workplace for
the contractor’s employees.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at 642.)  
 
Privette
is based on the presumption that the hirer of an independent contractor
generally delegates to the contractor responsibility for supervising the job,
including responsibility for looking after employee safety. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252, 265.) In line with this presumption,
only the hirer of an independent contractor falls within the Privette
doctrine. (See id. [holding that landowner did not hire plaintiff for
purposes of the Privette doctrine where landowner’s tenant hired the
plaintiff independent contractor to perform work on the premises].) The person
asserting non-liability under Privette must “delegate a responsibility
for ensuring the worksite's safety, either directly or ‘through the chain of
delegation.’” (Id. [quoting Tverberg v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2010)
49 Cal.4th 518, 528–29.)  This delegation
“is project-specific, meaning it involves a duty limited not only to the
contracted-for work but also to the place where that work occurs.” (Id. at
268.)
 
On summary judgment, the rebuttable
presumption under Privette that an independent contractor’s hirer
delegates to that contractor its tort duty to provide a safe workplace for that
contractor’s employees, shifts the burden to the non-moving party to raise a
triable issue of fact. (See Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 642–643.) “However, a presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence does not arise until the foundational facts are
established.” (Id. at 644 [evidence that defendants hired plaintiff’s
employer to perform work and that plaintiff was injured while working on the
site, was sufficient to establish the Privette presumption and shift
burden to plaintiff on summary judgment].) 
 
A. Exceptions to the Privette Doctrine
“At common law, a person who hired an independent
contractor generally was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the
contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693 (hereafter Privette.) “Central to this rule of
nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an independent
contractor had no right of control as to the mode of doing the work contracted
for.” (Ibid.) 
Subsequently, in Gonzalez v. Mathis, the California
Supreme Court revisited the Privette doctrine and the exceptions to the
doctrine.
There is a strong presumption under California law that a
hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the contractor all
responsibility for workplace safety. This means that a hirer is typically not
liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while
on the job. Commonly referred to as the Privette doctrine, the
presumption originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers
usually have no right to control an independent contractor's work. Second,
contractors can factor in the cost of safety precautions and insurance coverage
in the contract price. Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’
compensation to cover any on-the-job injuries. Finally, contractors are
typically hired for their expertise, which enables them to perform the
contracted-for work safely and successfully.
We have nevertheless identified two limited circumstances
in which the presumption is overcome. First, in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker),
we held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the
independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control
in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. Second, in Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931 (Kinsman),
we held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if
the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property
that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered,
and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard.
(Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37–38 [cleaned up].) 
B. Analysis
 
Defendants first argue that the Privette
doctrine bars liability. To support this, Defendants present the following
relevant facts:
 
-         
Century Housing Corporation and Century Villages at
Cabrillo, Inc. (jointly, “Century”) owned, leased occupied, and/or controlled
Century Villages at Cabrillo at 2001 River Ave, Long Beach, CA 90810
(“Premises”).[1]
-         
Century hired City National Security Services, Inc.
(“CNSS”) to provide security guard services at 2001 River Ave., Long Beach, CA
90810 (“Premises”) pursuant to written contracts. (UMF 2.) 
-         
Allied Universal acquired CNSS in 2020. (UMF 3.) 
-         
In or around 2020, Allied Universal assumed CNSS’s
contract for security guard services at the Premises with Century. (UMF 4.) 
-         
Allied Universal was an independent contractor for
Century. (UMF 5.) 
-         
Derrick Smith was an employee of Allied Universal’s at
the time of the Subject Incident. (UMF 6.) 
-         
Allied Universal had worker’s compensation insurance
coverage for its employees. (UMF 7.) 
-         
Prior to the Subject Incident, Allied Universal
inspected the Premises, including the guard shack. (UMF 9.) 
-         
After inspecting the Premises prior to the incident,
Allied Universal had no safety concerns about the location of the guard shack.
(UMF 10.) 
-         
Neither Allied nor its guards raised any concerns about
the safety of the guard shack or a need for protective barriers around it. (UMF
11.) 
-         
Century never interfered with Derrick Smith’s decisions
regarding appropriate safety measures. (UMF 14.) 
 
Here, Defendants provide evidence
that Century Villages of Cabrillo contracted with City National Security
Services, Inc. (“CNSS”) to provide security guard services at the Premises, and
that Allied Universal later assumed the contract. (D’Andrea Decl. ¶ 2, Exh.
29.)  It is undisputed that Decedent was
an employee of Allied Universal at the time of the incident. (Pl. Resp. UMF 6.)
However, as Plaintiffs observe, the contract with CNSS was entered only with
Century Villages of Cabrillo. (See Exh. 29.) Plaintiffs contend that this shows
that Defendant Century Housing Corporation was not a party to the contract and
therefore did not delegate its duties under Privette. (Opp., 17.) In
reply, Defendants argue that because the FAC alleges Defendants shared profits,
losses, management, and were parent companies, subsidiaries, or joint ventures,
they were within the “hiring chain” and protected under Privette.
(Reply, 6.) However, as discussed above, under Privette, the chain of
delegation of the duty is project specific. (Ramirez, supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at 265, 268.) Defendants do not provide authority
that related entities may be equally shielded under Privette, where only
one contracted with the independent contractor for a project.   
 
Nevertheless, Plaintiffs argue
that even if Privette applies, there is evidence that Defendants
retained control of the guard shack. As stated above, under Hooker, a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part
of the independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained
control in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. 
 
As the
Supreme Court of California has explained:
 
“A hirer ‘actually
exercise[s]’ its retained control over the contracted work when it involves
itself in the contracted work ‘such that the contractor is not entirely free to
do the work in the contractor's own manner.’ [Citations.] In other words, the
hirer must exert some influence over the manner in which the contracted work is
performed. Unlike ‘retained control,’ which is satisfied where the hirer
retains merely the right to become so involved, ‘actual exercise’ requires that
the hirer in fact involve itself, such as through direction, participation, or
induced reliance. (See, e.g., Kinney v. CSB Construction, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 28, 39, 103 Cal.Rptr.2d 594 (Kinney) [a hirer's “mere
failure to exercise a power to compel the [contractor] to adopt safer
procedures does not, without more, violate any duty owed to the [contract
worker]”]; [Citation.]” 
(Sandoval
v. Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 276.) 
 
“ ‘Affirmative
contribution’ means that the hirer's exercise of retained control contributes
to the injury in a way that isn't merely derivative of the contractor's
contribution to the injury. (See Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p.
212, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 [hirer liability based on affirmative
contribution does not merely “ ‘ “derive[ ] from the ‘act or omission’ of the
hired contractor” ’ ”].) Where the contractor's conduct is the immediate cause
of injury, the affirmative contribution requirement can be satisfied only if
the hirer in some respect induced — not just failed to prevent — the
contractor's injury-causing conduct. (See, e.g., Kinney, supra, 87
Cal.App.4th at p. 36, 103 Cal.Rptr.2d 594 [requiring that the hirer “induc[e]
[the contractor's] injurious action or inaction through actual direction,
reliance on the hirer, or otherwise”] . . . .” 
(Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at 277.) 
 
“A hirer's
conduct also satisfies the affirmative contribution requirement where the
hirer's exercise of retained control contributes to the injury independently of
the contractor's contribution (if any) to the injury. (See, e.g., Hooker,
at p. 212, fn. 3, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 [observing that hirer
liability would be appropriate where “the hirer promises to undertake a
particular safety measure, then ... negligent[ly] fail[s] to do so”]; Ray,
supra, 98 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1133–1134, 120 Cal.Rptr.2d 251 [finding Hooker
liability where hirer prohibited contractor from erecting road barricade that
might have prevented injury].) The critical factor here is the relationship
between the hirer's conduct and the contractor's conduct, not whether the
hirer's conduct, assessed in isolation, can be described as ‘affirmative
conduct.’ [Citation.] Importantly, neither ‘actual exercise’ nor ‘affirmative
contribution’ requires that the hirer's negligence (if any) consist of an
affirmative act. The hirer's negligence may take the form of any act, course of
conduct, or failure to take a reasonable precaution that is within the scope of
its duty under Hooker.” 
(Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at 277.) 
 
Plaintiffs
offer the following relevant facts:
 
-         
On or about July 24, 2023, Defendants’ counsel served a
deposition subpoena and notice of deposition on Allied Universal Security
Services’ (“Allied”) person most knowledgeable and Roy Romero for a deposition
scheduled for August 4, 2023. (PAMF 60.) 
-         
Romero next testified that he never saw an MSA between
Allied and Century Villages, and he had been prevented from forming a new one
by a Century Villages representative, named “Brett”. (PAMF 65.) 
-         
Romero had a meeting with “Brett”, during which Brett
told Romero the way in which the Premises was to be guarded. (PAMF 67.) 
-         
Romero added: “CVC provided roughly where they wanted
us to work. CVC said, I need somebody in the guard shack from this time to this
time, I want them patrolling these areas from this time to this time. We would
then relay that information.” (PAMF 69.) 
 
Plaintiffs also observe that the purported operative
agreement contracting security services terminated on June 30, 2019, before the
incident, and that the agreement states: “Guard’s duties shall be required to:
Remain in the guard shack.” (Opp., 17; Exh. 29, at 6.) Therefore, there is a
triable issue of fact whether Defendants retained control.
 
In reply, Defendants argue that a hirer’s passive conduct
in allowing a dangerous condition to exist does not satisfy the exception under
Hooker. (Reply, 7–8.) Defendants argue Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021)
12 Cal.5th 29 is more comparable to the case here. Gonzalez involved a
plaintiff who was hired to clean a skylight and fell off a slippery roof that
the hirer failed to maintain. (Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th
at 39–40.) Even though there was evidence that the hirer’s housekeeper directed
the plaintiff to go on the roof and use less water, she did not exercise
retained control over the work in a manner that affirmatively contributed to plaintiff’s
injury. (Id. at 56.) This is because the “the general direction to ‘go
on to the roof’ did not interfere with or otherwise impact [plaintiff’s]
decisions regarding how to safely perform the work or provide a safe workplace
for his employees. Mathis's housekeeper did not, for example, direct Gonzalez
to walk between the parapet wall and the roof's edge or otherwise influence his
decisions regarding whether and how he might safely cross over the roof in
order to reach his workers.” (Id.) 
 
In Gonzalez, the Court observed that one of the key
principles under the Privette doctrine is the hirer presumptively
delegates to the independent contractor the authority to determine the manner
in which the work is to be performed, and therefore assumes the responsibility
to ensure that the worksite is safe, and the work is performed safely. (Gonzalez,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at 41.) Here, there is evidence that Defendants
controlled the manner in which security guards performed their duties, by
specifying that they needed to be stationed at the guard shack. As a result,
there is a triable issue of fact regarding the retained control exception under
Hooker. 
 
II. Criminal Conduct of
Third Parties
 
Liability in a premises liability action is
based not on responsibility for the conduct of others, but on the failure of the
landowner or occupier to act reasonably under the circumstances when he or she
has reason to anticipate the probability of injury and has an opportunity to
prevent the injury or warn of the peril (Cody F. v. Falleti (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242, see Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993)
6 Cal.4th 666, 676 [a landowner’s duty to take steps to prevent the wrongful
acts of a third party is imposed only where such conduct can be reasonably
anticipated].) Accordingly, premises liability alleges a defendant property
owner either (1) allowed a dangerous condition on its property or (2) failed to
take reasonable steps to secure its property against criminal acts by third
parties. (Delgado v. American Multi-Cinema, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1406.) 
 
Traditionally,
foreseeability of the risk does not necessarily turn on whether the same type
of activity or event already occurred on the premises.¿ Rather, the issue is
whether, in light of all the facts and circumstances (including the nature,
condition and location of the premises, as well as the landlord's prior
experience), the owner had reason to anticipate the general character of the
event or harm, not its precise nature or manner of occurrence.¿ (Isaacs v.
Huntington Memorial Hosp. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 129.)¿ However, where a
“burdensome” duty is to be imposed on the landowner (e.g., requiring private
security guards or other heightened security measures), a “high degree of
foreseeability” is required. And “the requisite degree of foreseeability rarely,
if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent
crime on the landowner's premises.”¿ (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Ctr.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 679.)¿¿
 
Here, Defendants
have not established there was a high burden to install safety features that
could protect the guard shack—situated in the middle of a road—from an errant
vehicle. The facts here are different from Wiener v. Southcoast Childcare
Centers, Inc., where a driver intentionally drove his vehicle through a chain-link
fence adjacent to a sidewalk, and into a group of children in a playground. (Wiener
v. Southcoast Childcare Centers, Inc. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1138, 1143.)  Here, Defendants have not provided evidence that
Black’s crash into the guard shack was intentional—only that he pleaded nolo
contendere and was found guilty of Penal Code section 192(c)(1).[2] (See Lunn Decl.
¶ 3, Exh. 28, p. 2.) Therefore, Defendants fail to show that the “high
foreseeability” standard in intentional criminal cases applies to this case. Accordingly,
there remain triable issues of fact.
 
III. Evidence
of Dangerous Condition 
 
Next,
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have no evidence that the guard shack posed a
dangerous condition. 
 
“A plaintiff
alleging injuries based on a dangerous condition must prove the defendant
either: (1) created the dangerous condition, or (2) knew or should have known
of the dangerous condition.  (See Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc. (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1036; see also Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1206.) “If a dangerous condition exists, the property owner is
“under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the condition reasonably
safe for [visitors’] use or to give a warning adequate to enable them to avoid
the harm.”  (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443,
446.) 
 
“Whether
property is in a dangerous condition often presents a question of fact, but
summary judgment is appropriate if the trial or appellate court, viewing the
evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines that no reasonable person
would conclude the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such
property is used with due care in a manner which is reasonably foreseeable that
it would be used.” (Sambrano v. City of San Diego (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
225, 234.) 
 
The
following facts are undisputed: 
 
-         
On June 12, 2021, a guard shack was situated on the
northeast corner of W. 20th St. and San Gabriel Avenue, in the middle of San
Gabriel Avenue. (UMF 17.) 
-         
The guard shack was situated between two physical
islands surrounded by a curb with a height of six inches and seven feet long.
(UMF 18.) 
 
Here,
viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, there is a
triable issue of fact that a reasonable person could conclude the guard shack was
a dangerous condition by not having adequate safety features to inhibit such an
impact. Plaintiffs have provided expert opinion by Zachary M. Moore, a licensed
mechanical engineer who opines that the guard shack was composed of materials
that offered no protection for vehicle intrusions, and was not surrounded by
bollards, and located in an area susceptible to high traffic. (Moore Decl. ¶
10.) Therefore, Defendants fail to meet their burden that Plaintiffs have no
evidence that the guard shack was a dangerous condition. 
 
IV. Notice
of the Dangerous Condition 
 
A property owner
is not the insurer of the safety of its guests.¿(Ortega, supra,
26 Cal.4th at p 1205.)  The owner’s actual or constructive knowledge of
the dangerous condition is key to establishing liability.¿ (Hall v.
Rockcliff Realtors (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-40.)  Whether a
defendant had constructive notice of the condition that created the risk of
harm depends on whether, under all the circumstances, the condition was of such
a nature and existed long enough that defendant had sufficient time to discover
it and, using reasonable care: (1) repair the condition; or (2) protect against
harm from the condition; or adequately warn of the condition.  A defendant
must make reasonable inspections of the property to discover unsafe
conditions.  If an inspection was not made within a reasonable time before
the accident, this may show that the condition existed long enough so that the
owner using reasonable care would have discovered it.  (CACI No.
1011.)  It is generally a question of fact for the jury as to whether,
under all the circumstances, a defective condition existed long enough such
that a reasonable person, exercising reasonable care, would have discovered
it.  (Hale v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 124,
128-129 (Hale).)  
 
Here, as discussed in the
previous section, there is an issue of fact of whether the guard shack was a
dangerous condition. Defendants do not argue that they had no actual notice of
the shack. Instead, they argue that because there were no prior incidents of a
vehicle crashing into the shack, they had no actual or constructive notice that
this event could occur. (Motion, 20–21.) As stated above, constructive notice
is normally a question of fact. Based on where the guard shack was situated,
and the protective features in place, a reasonable person could conclude that
Defendants should have discovered that the shack posed a danger.  Therefore, Defendants fail to meet their
burden in showing that Plaintiffs cannot show or reasonably obtain evidence
that they lacked notice. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Century Housing
Corporation and Century Villages at Cabrillo, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
            
Defendants shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


