 Case Number:  21STCV46421    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46421




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Terminating Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ernesto
  Ramos Esparza



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 20, 2021, Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Defendants V&V Hauling, Inc., Ernesto Ramos Esparza,
Maria Ramirez Villegas, Josue J. Valerio, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries
resulting from a motor vehicle accident.¿
 
Plaintiffs
now move for terminating sanctions against Defendant Ernesto Ramos
Esparza (“Defendant”) for failure to obey multiple discovery orders. They ask the Court to
strike his answer and enter default. Defendant opposes and Plaintiffs reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th
377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225,
1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los
Defensores, supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen
(1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the
plaintiff for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating
various discovery statutes].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On February 7, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs motion to compel
deposition and ordered Defendant to appear for a deposition within 30 days.
(Min. Order, 2/7/24.)
 
On February 21, 2024, and March 4, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’
motion to compel discovery and ordered Defendant to serve further responses to
Requests for Admissions, Set One without objections, within 10 days.  The Court also imposed $1,260 in monetary
sanctions against Defendant. On March 4, 2024, the Court also granted Plaintiff
David L. Yen’s motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
One, ordering Defendant to respond without objections within 10 days and
awarding $1,260 in monetary sanctions. 
 
Defendant’s answer in this case was filed was filed along with the
other named defendants. Counsel for V & V Hauling has in the past been
unable to contact Defendant, yet because they answered on his behalf, have
received discovery requests in this case. The Court thus far has been granting
the motions to compel because the discovery has been properly served on
Defendant’s counsel. However, Defendant’s counsel has previously contended they
could not contact Defendant, who is no longer employed with V & V Hauling.  
 
Plaintiffs contend that no responses have been sent and that Defendant
has failed to appear for deposition. Plaintiffs assert that V &V Hauling’s
person most qualified, Saul Martinez, testified that he knows where Esparza
resides and told him he did not want to participate in this litigation.
(Kasparian Decl. ¶ 13, Exh. 12.) Defendant is alleged to have driven the
vehicle that injured Plaintiffs. The deposition testimony that Plaintiffs
include in this motion demonstrate that Mr. Martinez spoke to Defendant after
his employment was terminated.  The
following is a relevant excerpt of the testimony during Mr. Martinez’s
deposition on February 28, 2024: 
 
“Q And Mr. Ramos Esparza didn't want to come, correct? 
A Yes. 
Q Is that your understanding, that he didn't want to participate in
this case? 
A Uh-huh, yes. 
Q Why not? 
A I don't know. 
Q What did Mr. Ramos Esparza tell you about not wanting to come? 
A No, he didn't tell me. Simply said he didn't have to come. 
Q Did he tell you why he didn't think he had to come? 
A He just said he didn't have anything to come.”
(Kasparian Decl. ¶ 13, Exh. 12, Martinez Depo. 11:10–25.) 
 
“Q When was the last time you spoke to Ernesto Ramos Esparza before
today?
A It was about six months ago. 
Q Did you guys talk about this case or the crash when you spoke about
six months ago? A Yes. 
Q What did Mr. Esparza tell you about this case or the crash six
months ago? 
A No, I went to talk to him to get him to attend the hearing, but he
refused. 
Q Where did you speak to him at? 
A At his house.”
(Kasparian Decl. ¶ 13, Exh. 12, Martinez Depo. 17:25–18:11.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant’s counsel again asserts he was associated
into this case in December 2023 and has been trying to engage with Defendant
who has no formal education and limited understanding of the civil legal system,
although counsel does not provide evidentiary support for the latter assertion.
(Opp., 2.) Defendant contends that “efforts are being made to communicate with
Defendant to comply with his discovery obligations” but Defendant’s counsel
does not describe those efforts in detail. (Opp., 3.) Defendant provides no
declaration with his opposition but argues that Plaintiffs have not shown that
failure to comply with the discovery orders was willful. 
 
Defendant’s counsel notably does not contend that Defendant is not
aware of the discovery or the prior Court orders. Defendant offers no other
evidence in the form of a declaration or exhibits that show Defendant’s failure
to comply was not willful. On the contrary, the deposition testimony of Mr.
Martinez demonstrates that Defendant knows about this case and is purposely declining
to participate. Additionally, imposing monetary sanctions against Defendant
have not appeared to induce his participation. Finally, the lack of
participation by Defendant appears to have interfered with Plaintiffs’ action
since he is a percipient witness to the events alleged in the complaint and has
not complied with five discovery orders. Considering the above, the Court finds
that terminating sanctions are warranted. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant Ernesto Ramos Esparza’s answer is stricken. Counsel for
Plaintiffs may request an entry of default accordingly. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46421




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Production of Documents 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  David L. Yen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Maria Villegas 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 20, 2021, Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen filed a complaint
against Defendants V&V Hauling, Inc., Ernesto Ramos Esparza, Maria Ramirez
Villegas, Josue J. Valerio, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a
motor vehicle accident. 
 
On
February 16, 2024, Plaintiff David L. Yen (“Plaintiff”) served a second
amended deposition notice on Defendant Maria Ramirez Villegas (“Defendant”),
requesting a deposition and request for production on February 29, 2024.
(Kasparian Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant did not file any objections and
appeared for the deposition without producing said documents. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff
now moves to compel the production of the documents requested in the deposition
notice. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and
Plaintiff replies. 
 
As
an initial matter, Plaintiff appears to bring this motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450. (See Motion, 5.) However, since the request for
documents was contained in a deposition notice, Defendant appeared for the
deposition, and Plaintiff only seeks to compel production (and not Defendant’s
attendance), the proper basis for the motion is through Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.480. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
 
“(a)
If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent's
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.
(b)
This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”
 
“If
the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on
the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(i).) 
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.480(j).) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Aghavni Kasparian does not set forth facts that a
meet and confer took place prior to filing this motion. Therefore, the meet and
confer requirement has not been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, this motion is timely since the deposition took
place on February
29, 2024, and Plaintiff filed this motion on March 6, 2024. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) 
 
Here, Defendant appeared for her deposition on February 29,
2024, but failed to produce any of the documents requested in the deposition
notice, arguing no one told her bring anything. (Kasparian Decl. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant did not serve objections. (Ibid.) 
 
            The
subject deposition notice requests production of documents relating to V&V
Hauling, Inc.’s payment of Defendant’s personal expenses, debts, communications
regarding the subject incident, documents related to registration, insurance
policies, and documents that support Defendant’s affirmative defenses. The
requests appear discoverable. 
 
            Defendant argues the requests were
overly burdensome. However, it does not appear that Defendant served objections
or moved for a protective order. Therefore, the motion to compel is granted.
However, because Plaintiff failed to properly meet and confer, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to Compel Documents in the Second
Amended Deposition Notice is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide responses within 20
days. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 
 
 