  Case Number:  23STCP00500    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court
of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WALTER
  PEARCE 
         vs.
 
GARDENA
  RETIREMENT CENTER, INC. dba GARDENA RETIREMENT CENTER 
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCP00500   
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 26, 2023




 
Defendant’s motions to quash are DENIED. The scope of the
subpoenas is narrowed to: July 1, 2021 - March 1, 2022. 

 
            On 2/21/2023, Walter Pearce
(Plaintiff) filed suit against Gardena Retirement Center, Inc. dba Gardena
Retirement Center (Defendant), alleging: (1) dependent adult abuse/neglect; and
(2) negligence. 
 
            Now, Defendant moves to quash two
subpoenas for Community Care Licensing Division (CCLD) records. 
 
Factual
Background 
 
            Plaintiff was in the care of
Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that on 2/26/2022, he—who is paraplegic and could
not feel the temperature of the water on his lower limbs—was scalded by hot
water after he entered the bathtub. Plaintiff allegedly suffered at least
second degree burns as skin, fascia and muscle sloughed off his lower legs in
the bathtub.
 
Discussion

 
            Defendant argues that the subpoenas
served on the CCLD are overbroad, irrelevant, and seek privileged materials. 
 
            The two subpoenas in question
request the following records:
 
-        
“1.
California Department of Social Services' Unusual Injury Reports for GARDENA
RETIREMENT CENTER from 1/1/2019 to present. FACILITY NAME: GARDENA RETIREMENT
CENTER FACILITY NUMBER: 197607366 ***THIS REQUEST DOES NOT SEEK THE IDENTITY OF
ANY RESIDENT, BUT RATHER SEEKS INFORMATION BEARING UPON THE INCIDENTS/INJURIES
REPORTED BY THE FACILITY AT ISSUE. PLEASE REDACT OR DELETE THE NAME OF ANY
RESIDENT LISTED IN THE RESPONSIVE DOCUMENTS
 
-        
“1.
The entire investigative file, including, but not limited to, letters,
outlining complaints, field notes, summary reports, resident review worksheets,
surveyor notes, worksheets, telephone message slips, time sheets, reports,
memoranda, color photographs, records, interviews, audiotapes, videotapes,
correspondence, plans of correction prepared by Gardena Retirement Center
relating to the subject deficiencies, and documents evidencing completion of
the plans of correction relating to the subject deficiencies, regarding the
Facility Evaluation Report, attached hereto as Exhibit “1.” FACILITY NAME:
GARDENA RETIREMENT CENTER FACILITY NUMBER: 197607366.
 
            After
review, the Court finds the requests to be discoverable under the limited scope
of July
1, 2021 to March 1, 2022.
 
            As for relevancy and scope,
Defendant broadly argues that the records could not be relevant because this
action concerns an incident on 2/26/2022, and thus any records before or after
are irrelevant. However, Title
22 of the California Code of Regulations, section 87303, specifically required
the facility to maintain hot water controls in faucets and bathtubs for
residents so that the temperature was not more than 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was not in compliance with this
regulation, and this led to Plaintiff sustaining at least second degree burns
in the bathtub. In order to establish whether or not Defendant was aware, or
should have been aware, that it was not in compliance with this regulation, it
is clearly relevant whether or not other residents had sustained similar
injuries, and whether or not Defendant was investigated for similar conduct or
had any reason to be on notice that it was out of compliance with this
regulation. During a meet and confer conference, Plaintiff agreed to limit the
scope of the subpoena from 2018 to July 1, 2021 to March 1, 2022. According to
Plaintiff,  Defendant did not further
meet and confer on the narrowed timeframe, and instead filed this motion to
quash. Given that Defendant offers no alternative appropriate scope, and given
that the Court finds investigative complaints/incidents leading up to, and
shortly following, Plaintiff’s injury to be relevant, the Court accepts this
narrowed scope. 
 
            As to privilege and privacy concerns
raised by Defendant, the Court finds a number of methods exist to mitigate
these concerns. 
 
First, Government Code section 6253 provides: “(b) Except
with respect to public records exempt from disclosure by express provisions of
law, each state or local agency, upon a request for a copy of records that
reasonably describes an identifiable record or records, shall make the records
promptly available to any person upon payment of fees covering direct costs of
duplication, or a statutory fee if applicable. Upon request, an exact copy
shall be provided unless impracticable to do so.” As such, here, disclosure of
these public records is contemplated and it is the duty of CCLD to disclose
public records where appropriate. 
Second, as indicated in Plaintiff’s
subpoenas, all names and identifying information can be redacted and/or
deleted. Moreover, CCLD actually redacts all personal identifying information
prior to production. While Defendant cites Binder v. Superior Court
(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 893 to argue that redaction of medical records is
insufficient, there are a number of other cases which find redaction to be
sufficient. (See e.g. Kizer v. Sulnick (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 431, 438; Board
of Medical Quality Assurance v Hazel Hawkins Memorial Hospital (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 561, 565.) For example, the Kizer court stated:
 
It is also significant that Gherardini involved a demand for
individually identifiable medical records. In contrast, Board of Medical
Quality Assurance v. Hazel Hawkins Memorial Hospital (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d
561, arose from a demand for the medical records of four unnamed patients. In
that case the court held that the right of privacy discussed in Gherardini did
not apply "because neither disclosure of the patients' identities nor
disclosure of identifying medical information was requested." (Id.
at p. 565, 185 Cal.Rptr. 405.) In the present case, the court below was not
given a detailed description of the contents of the health study. Therefore,
the record does not disclose whether the study refers to identifiable individually
medical records. It such records are part attic study, the right to privacy
would justify, at most, either the deletion of any named medical records upon
the remainder of the health study being produced or, if feasible, the deletion
of information which individually identifies the participants. The right to
privacy does not support a blanket denial of appellant's petition to compel
production of the entire health study on the record before this court. 
 
(Kizer, supra, 202 Cal.App.3d at p. 438.)
 
Third, the Court finds no violation of HIPPA. While
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s subpoenas will require disclosure of records
regarding patients/residents’ private health information, HIPAA only protects
"individually identifiable health information" of patients. 45 C.F.R.
§160.103 of HIPAA defines “Individually identifiable health information” as
health information “(i) That identifies the individual; or (ii) With respect to
which there is a reasonable basis to believe the information can be used to
identify the individual.” Individually identifiable health information includes
common identifiers such as name, address, birth date, Social Security number.
 
Here, Plaintiff only seeks de-identified health information.
(See 45 C.F.R. § 164.514(a) [“Health information that does not identify an
individual and with respect to which there is no reasonable basis to believe
that the information can be used to identify an individual is not individually
identifiable health information.”].) 
 
Fourth, the Court finds no violation of Civil Code section
56.10 or CCP section 1798.24.
 
As for section 56.10, Civil Code section 56.10(a) does not
apply to the CCLD. It only applies, by its terms, to a “provider of health
care, health care service plan, or contractor.” The CCLD is neither a “provider
of health care, “as defined in Civil Code §56.05(j), nor a “health care service
plan,” as defined in Civil Code §56.05(d), nor a “contractor,” as defined in
Civil Code §56.05(c). Thus, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the statute is
inapplicable here. Moreover, like with HIPPA, there is no indication that
de-identified health information falls within the scope of “individually
identifiable information.” 
 
As for CCP section 1798.4, this provision requires prior
written voluntary consent of the individual who records are being sought.
However, first, Plaintiff “has no way of knowing the identity of residents
contained in the reports prior to production and indeed will never know the
names of residents because CCLD will redact those names from the reports as
required by the express language of the subpoena.” (Opp., 8:18-23.) Moreover,
RCFEs are not identified as a type of custodian of “personal records” subject
to the mandatory notice of consumer requirement pursuant to CCP section 1985.3.
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motions to quash are denied.
The scope of the subpoenas is narrowed to: July 1, 2021 to March 1, 2022. 

 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated:  September    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 