 Case Number:  23STCV15315    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  17 The pending  application to be admitted pro hac vice is grantedSuperior
Court of California

County of
Los Angeles

 

DEPARTMENT 17

 

TENATIVE RULING

 




THE
  DOMINGUEZ FIRM, LLP, et al. 
  
         vs.
 
JOSE LUIS
  NAZAR, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15315 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 27, 2023




 

This motion is continued to a date after October 3, 2023, to
allow for Judge Long’s ruling on the Notice of Related Cases.

 

            On 6/30/20223, Plaintiffs the
Dominguez Law Firm, LLP and Top Reach Marketing, LLC filed suit against Jose
Luis Nazar, Land of the Free, L.P., the Telco, Ring Pros , Lc, Champion
Communications, Inc., Champion Communications, LTCD, Lead Capital, LLC, and
800.com, LLC, alleging: (1) specific performance of a contract; (2) declaratory
relief; (3) declaratory relief; (4) declaratory relief; (5) declaratory relief;
and (6) unfair business practices.

 

            Now, Defendants Lead Capital, LLC,
800.com, LLC, Joe Luis Nazar, and Land of the Free, L.P. (collectively, “Defendants”)
demur to Plaintiffs’ Complaint, or request a stay in the alternative. 

 

Factual
Background

 

This lawsuit is the third in California, and fourth in the
nation, directed toward the alleged misconduct of The Telco, Ring Pros LLC,
Champion Communications, Inc., and Champion Communications, Ltd. (the
“Fernandez Defendants”), owned and operated by non-party Greg Fernandez, and
their attempts to license and sell the toll-free number 800-777-7777 (the
“Number”). Plaintiffs here—The Dominguez Firm, LLP, and Top Reach Marketing,
LLC (“Plaintiffs”)—are downstream licensees of the number who brought this
action to protect their purported right to uninterrupted use of the Number in
California.

 

Defendant José Luis Nazar (together with Defendant Land of
the Free, L.P., the “Nazar Defendants”) sued the Fernandez Defendants for fraud
and breach of an agreement permitting the Fernandez Defendants to market the
Number (subject to the Nazar Defendants’ knowledge and approval) to third
parties (the “Nazar Action”). 

 

Allegedly, the Fernandez Defendants were not seeking the
Nazar Defendants’ approval when entering agreements to sell ownership rights to
the Number, such as to Defendants Lead Capital, LLC and 800.com, LLC (together,
the “Esposito Defendants”).

 

The Nazar Action is scheduled for trial on October 23, 2023,
and will address the issue of whether the Nazar Defendants are the rightful
subscribers to the Number, as well as whether the Fernandez Defendants breached
their duties and obligations to the Nazar Defendants by entering unauthorized
third-party licenses and sale agreements for the Number.

 

Discussion


 

            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
claims should be dismissed with prejudice, or should be stayed pending
resolution of the Nazar Action.

 

            After review, the Court does not
reach the merits of the demurrer or the request to stay, and instead continues
this hearing until after October 3, 2023. 

 

            Here, when Plaintiffs filed the
instant lawsuit, there were already three other pending lawsuits directed
toward the same underlying subject matter—whether the Fernandez Defendants ever
had rights to the Number and whether their attempts to license and sell the
Number to others was legitimate. 
Moreover, trial is set for October 2023 in the Nazar Action, where a
court will determine right(s) to the Number and the validity of competing
claims to the Number. This action raises the same questions, and seeks the same
relief. (See e.g. Complaint, ¶ Prayer for Relief, “For a judicial
declaration and determination that the Call Forwarding Agreement is valid and
enforceable as to the Subscriber of Record for the Number and/or as to the
entity that rightfully controls the Number, whoever that is deemed to be; “For
a judicial declaration and determination that Fernandez’s sale of the Number to
Lead was a violation of Dominguez’s Right of First Refusal.”) 

 

“Granting a stay in a case where the issues in two actions
are substantially identical . . . is a matter addressed to the sound discretion
of the trial court.” (Thomson v. Continental Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d
738, 746.)

 

In opposition, Plaintiff argues that a stay will undermine
judicial economy. However, here, it is possible that the Nazar Action may
render moot, or otherwise substantially narrow, many (if not all) of
Plaintiffs’ claims. Moreover, given that the Nazar Action is shortly set for
trial, a stay would not be lengthy. It would also mitigate the risk of
conflicting rulings. 

 

Based on these considerations, the Court would likely find
that a stay is appropriate. However, in opposition, Plaintiff requests a
continuance of this hearing to a date after October 3, 2023, given that on October
3rd, “Judge Long in Dept. 48 will decide if the Dominguez Lawsuit is related to
the Nazar Lawsuit. If the Court relates the two lawsuits, Dominguez will then
file a Motion to Consolidate the actions for all purposes.” (Opp., 7: 1-4.) 

 

Given that this action might by deemed related/consolidated
to a case in another Department, the Court finds it prudent to withhold a
ruling until Judge Long has had an opportunity to make that determination. Upon
a finding that the matters are related, or should be consolidated, this motion
to stay will be moot.

 

Based on the foregoing, this motion is continued to a date
after October 3, 2023, to allow for Judge Long’s ruling on the Notice of
Related Cases.

 

 

It is so
ordered. 

 

Dated:  September    , 2023

                                                                                                                                                           

   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court

 

 

 

Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  

 