  Case Number:  23STCV04422    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GEORGINA
  DELAROSA,  
  
         vs.
 
PROSEGUR SECURITY USA,
  INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV04422
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 12, 2024



 
Defendants Prosegur Security USA,
Inc.’s and Manual Rojas’ unopposed application for an order admitting Carlos
J. Burruezo to appear pro hac vice is denied.

 
          Defendants Prosegur Security USA, Inc. (“Prosegur”) and
Manual Rojas (“Rojas”) (collectively, “Defendants”) apply unopposed to
admit Carlos J. Burruezo to appear pro hac vice.  (Application, pg. 1; CRC, Rule 9.40.) 
 
          Background
On February 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her operative complaint in the instant action Defendants
alleging seven causes of action: (1) discrimination on
the basis of race, ancestry, and/or national origin in violation of FEHA;
(2) harassment on the basis of race, ancestry, and/or national origin in
violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation for complaining of discrimination
and/or harassment on the basis of race, ancestry, and/or national origin in
violation of FEHA; (4) violation of Labor Code §1102.5; (5) wrongful
termination of employment in violation of public policy (discussion wages) in
violation of Labor Code §1102.5, FEHA; (6) failure to prevent discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation in violation of FEHA; and (7) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.
On March 20, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant application to be admitted pro hac vice.  As of the date of this hearing Plaintiff has
not filed an opposition.
 
Motion
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following:
(1)   The applicant’s residence and
office address;
(2)   The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)   That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)   That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)   The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro
hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)   The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides
as follows, “[a]n applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice
under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.”
Defendant’s application
provides the information required by C.R.C., Rule 9.40(d).  However, Defendants failed to submit proof
the $50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e).)  Defendants also failed to submit proof of
service by mail on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office the
of verified application and notice of the hearing in accordance with C.C.P. §1013a.
 (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1).)
Defendants have provided this
Court with Carlos J. Burruezo’s bar number, 843458. While this requirement is
not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule 9.40, the Court needs this number to enter
Defendant’s application into the Court’s system.
Accordingly, Defendants’ unopposed
motion for an order admitting Carlos J. Burruezo to appear pro hac vice is denied.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                             





  