  Case Number:  23STCV18082    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, February 20, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV18082
CASE NAME:                        Aaron Watkins, et al. v. Ascend Ecom LLC
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Ascend Ecom LLC, Will Bast, and
Jeremy Leung 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Aaron Watkins, Watkin FBA, LLC, and Watkins Collaborations,
LLC 
TRIAL DATE:                        N/A
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action. 
OPPOSITION:                        5 February 2024
REPLY:                                  13
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Stay the action is granted. Defendants to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On
August 12, 2023, Aaron Watkins; Watkin FBA, LLC; and Watkins Collaborations,
LLC (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Ascend Ecom LLC
(“Ascend”); Will Basta (“Basta”); Jeremy Leung (“Leung”) (collectively
“Defendants”); and Does 1 to 10. 
 
The operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), filed September 13, 2024, alleges five causes of action: (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (3) fraud; (4) accounting, and (5) unfair business practices. 
 
On January 2, 2024, the
Defendants filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action. Plaintiffs
oppose the Motion. 


 
motion to
compel arbitration
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Parties may be compelled to
arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid
agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the
controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(CCP § 1281.2; Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate.  The party opposing the
petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any
fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior
Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
“If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (CCP §
1281.4.)¿
 
II.        Discussion
 
Defendants
Ascend, Basta, and Leung move to compel arbitration on the basis that Ascend
entered into Management Agreements with each of the Plaintiffs, and by
extension, Ascend's alter egos, Defendants Basta and Leung. (Ross Decl. Ex. A,
C, D.)       
Defendants maintain that the arbitration agreement into which Gerry Watkins
entered is binding on Plaintiffs Watkins Collaborations LLC as a
successor-in-interest. (Ross Decl. Ex. B.)
 
Defendants assert that the respective
agreements contain the following identical provisions: 
 
6.8 Disputes and Governing Law. The Parties agree that any dispute regarding this Agreement, and
any claim made by Client for return of fees paid to Manager, shall be handled
in accordance with applicable State and Federal Laws. This Agreement and the
rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be governed by and
construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of Sheridan County in the
State of Wyoming applicable to contracts made and to be performed wholly within
such state.
 
6.9 Arbitration. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, or the breach hereof, on behalf of the Client shall be settled by
arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American
Arbitration Association, and judgment upon the award rendered by the
arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
 
(Ross Decl. Ex. A, C, D [emphasis original].)
 
Defendants assert
that the dispute applies to the parties’ dispute because the action relates to
Ascend’s performance under the Management Agreements. 
 
Plaintiffs’
opposition does not rebut Defendants’ contentions that the Management
Agreements govern this dispute and mandate arbitration of this action. Instead,
Plaintiffs argue that the action should not be compelled to arbitration because
neither Defendant Basta nor Leung have agreed to arbitrate this dispute, and
under CCP § 1281.2(c), this could result in the possibility of conflicting
rulings. 
 
Plaintiffs’ argument
is without merit because this Motion was brought by Defendants Basta and Leung with
Ascend. There is no evidence that Basta and Leung oppose the Motion. 
 
Moreover, the
Management Agreements are governed by Wyoming state law, which Defendants argue
does not contain an equivalent provision to section 1281.2(c). 
 
Finally, even if the
court were to find that California law governed this agreement, as the FAC
alleges that Defendants Basta and Leung are alter egos of Ascend, the court
could order arbitration as to Defendants Basta and Leung under the agency
exception. (See Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 613; Garcia v. Pexco,
LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 788.) 
 
For
the reasons set forth above, the court grants Defendants’ Motion. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Action is granted. The Court sets an OSC Re: Status of
Arbitration for February 20, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. Defendants to give notice.
 