 Case Number:  23LBCV01989    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Dr. Golamali Oftadeh
and Dr. Lydia Oftadeh filed this action against Defendants, Matt Knabe, Brianna
Knabe, and Bixby Hill Community Association for private nuisance, breach of
contract, and injunctive relief.  Plaintiffs
allege their neighbors, the Knabes, have planted trees, bushes, and shrubs and
allowed them to grow in excess of the height permitted by the CC&Rs, thus
obstructing Plaintiffs’ view from their property.  
 
The Knabes joined with another
neighbor, Autrey, to file a cross-complaint against the Oftadehs.  The cross-complaint is for trespass,
harassment, invasion of privacy, private nuisance, IIED, trespass to chattels,
conversion, and declaratory relief.  The
crux of the cross-complaint is that the CC&Rs re: height of landscaping
have never been enforced, and virtually all members, including the Oftadehs,
are in violation of the rules in this regard. 
The Knabes allege the Oftadehs have engaged in ongoing inappropriate and
actionable behavior in an attempt to have the Knabes trim their trees,
including approaching their gardeners, yelling over the fence, following them
around the community, and poisoning the subject landscaping.  Autrey alleges she is also a neighbor of the
Oftadehs, and alleges the Oftadehs have engaged in similar behavior concerning
her landscaping, which behavior includes viewing her and her guests through
binoculars in their pool and hot tub, peering into her windows, using drones to
spy on her in her home, threatening her and her significant other, and
poisoning her landscaping.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Inspection
a.     Untimely
Opposition
Opposition to the motion was due
nine court days prior to the hearing. 
CCP §1005(b).  In light of the
Thanksgiving holiday, nine court days prior to the hearing fell on Monday, 11/18/24.  Plaintiffs filed untimely opposition papers
on Wednesday, 11/20/24.  This is only two
days before Defendants’ reply papers are due on Friday, 11/22/24.  
 
Notably, Plaintiffs’ opposition
papers concede the tardiness of the opposition, but Plaintiffs indicate the
opposition is one day late.  Plaintiffs
explain that they intended to file their opposition on 11/19/24, but their
attorney’s mother had to go to the hospital on the night of 11/18/24.  As noted above, the opposition was due on
11/18/24, not 11/19/24.  
 
The Court has read and considered
the opposition papers in light of the confusion, but Plaintiffs must ensure all
papers are timely filed in the future.  
 
b.     Waiver of Objections
Defendants propounded their demand
for inspection on Plaintiffs on 6/13/24, setting the inspection date for
7/16/24.  Any response to the demand was
due within thirty days.  CCP §2031.260.  Plaintiffs never served a response to the
demand.  Instead, on 6/11/24, the
attorneys commenced a meet and confer process via email.  The exchange is attached to the moving papers
as Exhibit 3.  Plaintiffs started the
meet and confer process by indicating they would not allow a surveyor to attend
the inspection because no surveyor was mentioned in the demand.  On 7/12/24, Defendants’ attorney wrote to ask
whether the inspection would be going forward because there had been no
response to the demand.  On 7/15/24,
Defendants’ attorney again inquired about the inspection.  On 7/15/24, Plaintiffs’ attorney responded
and indicated the inspection would not be going forward because Plaintiffs
object to the inspector entering the second floor of the home.  
 
Pursuant to CCP §2031.010, the
failure to timely serve an objection to a demand waives all objections to the
demand.  Defendants raise the wavier
issue in their moving papers, and Plaintiffs do not address the issue in their
opposition.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiffs waived
all objections to the inspection demand, and the motion to compel the demand is
granted.
 
c.     Notes
It appears the crux of the issue
between the parties is whether (a) trees on Plaintiffs’ property can be
measured, and (b) access to the second floor balconies should be granted.  
 
It seems appropriate to measure
trees other than those on the property line. 
Plaintiffs’ position is that Defendants’ trees violate the CC&Rs in
height.  If Plaintiffs also have trees
that are in violation of the CC&Rs, this could be relevant to enforcement,
waiver, etc.  
 
With respect to the second floor
balconies, if Plaintiffs are not pursuing any claims about the view from these
balconies, the Court encourages the parties to enter into a formal stipulation
clarifying that any view from those balconies is not at issue and will not be
pursued.  
 
d.     Sanctions
The Court finds both parties took
their positions in good faith and with substantial justification.  No sanctions are imposed.  
 
e.     Conclusion
The motion to compel is
granted.  The parties must work together
to arrange the inspection.  No sanctions
are imposed.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.