  Case Number:  23LBCV00385    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Shirin El Sharkawi filed
this action against Defendants, Kelvin Anderson, Sr. and Rhone Love, as well as
Nominal Defendant, World Famous VIP Records, LLC for breach of contract and
related claims.  Plaintiff filed the
original complaint on 2/27/23.  Plaintiff
filed her First Amended Complaint on 5/17/23. 
Defendants demurred to the FAC, and the parties were ordered to meet and
confer in good faith.  The meet and
confer efforts resulted in the filing of the Second Amended Complaint, which
Plaintiff filed on 2/01/24.  On 6/11/24,
the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC with leave to amend on the
ground that the FAC revealed the action is barred by the statute of
limitations, the SAC omitted the fatal allegations without explanation, and
Plaintiff was obligated to “plead around” those fatal allegations by way of a
Third Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff filed
the TAC on 6/21/24.  
 

Demurrer to Third
     Amended Complaint

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
parties met and conferred telephonically, but were unable to resolve the issues
presented by way of the demurrer.  The
Court will rule on the demurrer on its merits.
 
c.     Fourth
Amended Complaint
Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before Monday, 11/18/24.  On
11/14/24, Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff did not seek leave to do so.  CCP §472 permits a plaintiff to amend his
complaint “once” as a matter of course under certain circumstances; Plaintiff
has amended his complaint numerous times previously, and was not permitted to
file a Fourth Amended Complaint without leave of court.  
 
Plaintiff’s choice to do so places
the Court in a difficult position. 
Plaintiff did not oppose the demurrer to the TAC, and did not articulate
any reason to overrule the demurrer and/or to sustain the demurrer without
leave to amend.  
 
The Court is inclined to permit the
4AC to stand.  The Court notes that
Defendants filed their demurrer to the TAC in July and were not able to obtain
a hearing date until December.  The Court
wishes to move this case along.  The
Court is specially setting a hearing for what appears to be an inevitable
demurrer to the 4AC in six weeks, on Thursday, 1/09/25 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department S27.  The parties must meet
and confer forthwith concerning any deficiencies in the 4AC.  If Defendants ultimately demur to the 4AC,
Plaintiff may NOT file a 5AC in lieu of opposition.  Plaintiff must substantively oppose any
pleading challenge if he wishes to avoid an adverse ruling.
 

Motion to be
     Relieved as Counsel

Plaintiff’s attorney seeks to be
relieved as counsel, contending there has been a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship and Plaintiff has not been paying invoices.  Counsel served Plaintiff at a confirmed address
and filed proof of service of the moving papers on Plaintiff and all other
parties to the action.  The motion is
unopposed and granted.  Relief is
effective upon filing proof of service of the final order on Plaintiff.  
 

Case Management
     Conference

The parties are reminded that there
is a Case Management Conference on calendar concurrently with the hearing on
the demurrer.  The Court will discuss a
brief continuance of the FSC and trial date with the parties in light of the
above ruling on the demurrer.    
 
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC, OSC, and hearing on the
demurrer.  
 