 Case Number:  23VECV03599    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  W SYLVIA MORA v. ROCK STAR PROPERTIES LLC
DBA AGWC ROCKIN' RESCUE, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        February 23, 2024                             Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03599
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Sylvia Mora 
Responding
Party:     Defendants Rock Star
Properties, LLC, Ady Gil and Fabienne Origer 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 17, 2023, Plaintiff Sylivia Mora filed a complaint
against Defendants Rock Star Properties, LLC dba AGWC Rockin’ Rescue, Ady Gil
and Fabienne Origer for negligence, strict liability, and punitive damages.
Plaintiff alleges on December 24, 2022, Plaintiff was a volunteer at Rock Star
Properties, LLC dba AGWC Rockin’ Rescue (“Rescue”). While Plaintiff was sitting
on the sidewalk near the Rescue, one of Rescue’s Labrador dogs, viciously
attacked Plaintiff, causing severe injuries to Plaintiff’s person including to
her back, neck, arms, wrist, and hand along with nerve damage and loss of
functionality.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves the court for an order granting leave to amend the
complaint filed in this action on August 17, 2023 to add “Ady Gil World
Conservation” as a defendant in place of the fictitious name “DOE 1”. 
 
A complainant may obtain leave from the trial court to amend his
pleading beyond the number of amendments allowed under Code of Civil Procedure
section 472 (a) by filing a noticed motion.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1324.)¿ The motion
must be accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request was not
made earlier.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1324 (b).)¿¿¿¿
¿¿¿ 
“Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in
the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the
amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order.”¿ (CCP § 576.)  In the absence of a showing of prejudice from
the opposing side, the trial court ordinarily lacks discretion to deny a motion
to amend a pleading.¿ (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 960, 965.)
 
Plaintiff moves to add “Ady Gil World Conservation” as a defendant
in place of the fictitious name “DOE 1” on the grounds the need for the
amendment arose after the depositions of Defendants Ady Gil and Fabienne
Origer, where it was discovered that “Ady Gil World Conservation” is the
correct name of the entity involved regarding ownership, maintenance, and
control of the animal rescue in question. Plaintiff contends when they did a
search for AGWC, the Secretary of State website does not reveal “Ady Gil World
Conservation,” which contributed to the initial misidentification of the
Defendant at the initial filing of the complaint.
 
In opposition, Defendants argue nothing in Code of Civil Procedure
section 473(a) appears to allow a party to substitute the name of an existing
party and thus skirt the Doe amendment procedure outlined in Code of Civil
Procedure section 474. Defendants further argue the real reason Plaintiff has
decided to file a motion is to throw a potential roadblock to AGWC later
challenging the issue as to whether Mora was indeed “ignorant of the true name
of the defendant (AGWC)” as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 474.
Defendants contend Plaintiff knew the identity of AGWC as early as April 9,
2018 because she signed a signed a document captioned “indemnity waiver,
release of liability and assumption of risk” concurrent with a volunteer
questionnaire in which AGWC is expressly listed.
 
The court grants the motion for leave to amend to add “Ady Gil
World Conservation” as DOE 1. Leave to amend is generally liberally granted,
provided there is no statute of limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) The court may also deny the plaintiff’s leave
to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial,
loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Id.) There
are no statute of limitations issues presented. Defendants have not presented
any evidence of any prejudice from the proposed amendment. Plaintiffs contend there
will be no deposition necessary of Ady Gil World Conservation and the only
discovery will be an initial set of written discovery which will be due by the
discovery deadline.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complaint is
GRANTED. 
 