 Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.
 
DEFENDANT PAIGE HEMMIS' MOTION TO
PARTIALLY QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS TO
YAHOO, INC.
 
Date
of Hearing:        February 23, 2024                 Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01458
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against
Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,
Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The
Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass
California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)
Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)
Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.
 
Plaintiffs allege about September 15,
2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis
and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in
possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and
Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute
with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was
entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further
allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta
and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the
Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently
forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a
result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 
 
On March 24, 2023, this action was
related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). 
 
On August 18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and
Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly Ann Davis, Compass
California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason Improta for breach of
contract, money had and received, implied indemnification, express
indemnification, and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants dismissed
their cause of action for express indemnification. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Paige Hemmis’ Motion to
Partially Quash Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records to
Yahoo, Inc. is GRANTED.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff
requests this court take judicial notice of several court documents in other
cases as well as the cross-complaint and answer to cross-complaint filed in the
instant action. The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Paige Hemmis moves the court
for an order partially quashing the deposition subpoena for production of
business records issued by Plaintiffs to Yahoo, Inc. and seeks additional
orders to protect Defendant from unreasonable and oppressive demands including
violations of the right of privacy of the person. Defendant Hemmis also seeks
monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,120.00. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section¿1987.1(a)¿states,
“[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.¿ In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  
 
A deposition subpoena may be quashed
for:¿(1) defects in form or content of the subpoena (e.g., inadequate
description of requested records); (2) defects in service of the subpoena
(e.g., failure to satisfy the requirements of providing notice to consumer; (3)
requesting¿production of records not within the permissible scope of discovery;
and (4) being unjustly burdensome or oppressive.¿ (Weil & Brown,¿Civ. Proc.
Before Trial, ¶¿8:598.)¿ 
 
Defendant Hemmis moves to partially
quash the deposition subpoena on the grounds it is overly broad, not reasonably
limited in its scope or duration and is unduly burdensome and harrassive.
Defendant Hemmis contends the deposition subpoena seeks documents for an
unlimited duration. However, the time period based on the allegations of the
operative pleading would be, at most, from in or about August 1, 2019 until
such time defendant Hemmis vacated the Property in or about July 2022 (although
Defendant Hemmis believes it should be further limited to September 12, 2019
when the lease was executed). 
 
In opposition[1],
Plaintiff argues the IP address information is relevant because if any of Defendant
Hemmis’ IP information at any point from January 1, 2018 to present matches
either of the two email addresses that have now been linked to the kadavislaw1967@gmail.com
email or the DocuSign certificate produced by Compass, that would be highly
relevant to establishing that Defendant Hemmis was the one who sent e-mails,
and forged, the electronically-signed lease. Moreover, Plaintiff contends
Defendant Hemmis does not identify any harm, or privilege, that she has in
preventing the Plaintiff from knowing the information sought in this subpoena. 
 
The court finds the scope of the
subpoena does go beyond Plaintiff’s allegations. Even with the Third Amended
Complaint, the relevant allegations do not support discovery into the issue at
hand beyond August 1, 2019 to July 31, 2022. Defendant does not dispute
Plaintiff has presented evidence why the discovery into the IP Addresses sought
is relevant; however, Plaintiff has not presented evidence as to why anything
beyond July 2022 is relevant. Videos continuing to be posted by Hallmark’s
social media account is not relevant to whether or not the IP addresses match
the Google Account or the DocuSign certificate. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Paige Hemmis’
Motion to Partially Quash Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business
Records to Yahoo, Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
The request for sanctions is denied as
both parties’ positions were substantially justified.  


