 Case Number:  23VECV04468    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  W TWONGTIP
PUNLERTPATHANAKON v. MULHOLLAND SECURITY CENTERS, LLC DBA MULHOLLAND BRAND
MANUFACTURING, et al.
 
plaintiff’s
motion to compel arbitration pursuant to arbitration agreement 
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 23 and February 23, 2024  Trial Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04468
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Twongtip Punlertpathanakon
Responding Party:     Defendants Mulholland Security Centers LLC,
Abraham Ben David, and Avi ‘Coby’ Jacoby  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a wrongful termination case.
Plaintiff Twongtip Punlertpathanakon began working for Defendants Mulholland
Security Centers LLC dba Mulholland Brand Manufacturing, Abraham Ben David, and
Avi ‘Coby’ Jacoby in July 2022. Plaintiff alleges despite her work ethic,
Defendants treated Plaintiff differently than the other employees because she
was not Israeli. Plaintiff alleges despite her excellent sales records,
Defendants would give preferred    job
sites to Israeli workers who had less experience than her and worse sale
records than her. After Plaintiff made complaints to Defendants about the
racism she regularly experienced at work, Plaintiff was terminated. On October
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants for 1. Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy (FEHA); 2. Wrongful Termination in Violation
of Public Policy (Failure to Pay Owed Wages); 3. Discrimination and Disparate Treatment
Based on National Origin; 4. Harassment; 5. Failure to Prevent Harassment; 6.
Failure to Pay Wages Owed; 7. Failure to Pay Accurate Itemized Wage Statements;
8. Waiting Time Penalties; 9. Violation of Business & Professions Code section
17200 et seq.; 10. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 11. Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and 12. Liquidated Damages for Complaint Wage
Theft and Failure to Pay Wages Plus Interest. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration Pursuant to Arbitration Agreement is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In reply,
Plaintiff requests this court take judicial notice of Declaration of Corey A.
Pingle in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion to Stay, Compel Arbitration and Issue
Sanctions and/or Reasonable Costs Against Defendants. The court GRANTS the
request for judicial notice as to the existence of the exhibit. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Plaintiff
moves this court for an order to stay proceedings and compel arbitration pursuant
to written agreement of the parties to arbitrate any controversy or claim. 
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1281.2(a)-(b).) “Because
the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the
petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)¿ 
¿ 
“California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”¿ (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff contends on July 20, 2023,
Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an agreement to arbitrate any and all
employment disputes. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1.) The Arbitration Agreement provides:
“In the event of a dispute between the parties over the execution of the
attached contract, the parties will waive their right to litigate these issues
in court and instead will resolve their dispute through binding arbitration in
Canoga Park, California.” (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1, ¶1.) Pursuant to the terms of
the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff made a demand of arbitration on April 13,
2023. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 2.) However, Defendants failed to comply by failing
to make the necessary payment to American Arbitration Association. (Pingle
Decl. ¶7.) 
 
Defendants oppose the motion. The court
takes the time to note it seems peculiar that Defendants, who themselves
drafted the Arbitration Agreement, now seek court intervention to deem the
agreement unconscionable. Although the court will, in good faith, analyze
Defendants’ unconscionability agreement, Defendant's argument is an unusual one.

 
In opposition, Defendant argues the
Arbitration Agreement is not enforceable because it was never signed by the
parties. The court disagrees. “[T]he writing memorializing an arbitration
agreement need not be signed by both parties in order to be upheld as a binding
arbitration agreement.”  (Serafin v. Balco Properties Lrd., LLC (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176.)  “ ‘[I]t is not the presence or absence of a
signature [on an agreement] which is dispositive; it is the presence or absence
of evidence of an agreement to arbitrate which matters.’ [Citation.] 
Evidence confirming the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, despite an
unsigned agreement, can be based, for example, on ‘conduct from which one could
imply either ratification or implied acceptance of such a provision.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  In the present case, while Defendants
did not execute the Arbitration Agreement, Defendants authored the Arbitration
Agreement, and printed the Arbitration Agreement upon Defendants’ letterhead,
and produced the agreement to Plaintiff as a term of employment. The court
further notes the Arbitration Agreement does not require a signature. (See Gorlach
v. Sports Club Co. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1509 holding “where an
arbitration agreement requires a signature to be effective, courts have found
that unsigned arbitration agreements are unenforceable.”  
 
At the initial hearing on January 23,
2024, the court requested that plaintiff submit a further declaration,
explaining his understanding of the agreements given to him to sign, what he
executed, and whether he believed that he was bound by the agreement.  Plaintiff has now done so.  The court finds his declaration persuasive
that he believed that he was executing electronically every one of the
agreements sent to him to sign, placing his electronic signature at each
prompt.  Even if his electronic signature
does not appear on the arbitration agreement, as it does on some of the other
pages, he did what he was asked to do by the prompts to assert his assent to
every document sent to him. This is sufficient to establish an intent to be
bound.  Even if unsigned by a
representative of defendant, the fact that it was presented to plaintiff as
part of the preemployment package by defendant, which the requirement that he
review, sign and return, manifests an intent to be bound as well on the pat of
the employer.   
 
Next, Defendants argue the arbitration
clause has strong elements of substantive unconscionability. Defendant contends
the agreement does not fulfill the basic requirements of an enforceable, valid
arbitration agreement. Regarding arbitration costs, it allows the arbitrator to
shift fees or costs to the prevailing party rather than placing the
responsibility of payment of costs of arbitration exclusively on the employer.
Moreover, it fails to provide for a “neutral” arbitrator; rather, it states
that “the arbitration shall be conducted by one arbitrator” and fails to make
the full range of statutory remedies available; it does not seem to permit any
discovery, let alone, “adequate discovery;” it does not provide for a “written
arbitration that will reveal the essential findings and conclusions on which
the award is based.”
 
The court disagrees. Unconscionability
has both a ‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element.” (A & M Produce Co.
v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486.) An agreement to arbitrate is
unenforceable only if both procedural and substantive unconscionability is
shown. (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519,
1533.) Defendant does not attempt to make a procedural argument. Even so, “[s]ubstantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner.  [Citation] Substantive
unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but typically is found in the
employment context when the arbitration agreement is ‘one-sided’ in favor of
the employer without sufficient justification, for example, when ‘the
employee’s claims against the employer, but not the employer’s claims against
the employee, are subject to arbitration.’ [Citations].”  (Roman v.
Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469-1470.)  In
determining whether an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, the Court
considers whether the agreement: (1) provides for a neutral arbitrator; (2)
provides for reasonable discovery; (3) requires a written award; (4) provides
for the same remedies that otherwise would be available in court; and (5) does
not require employees to bear costs unique to arbitration.  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
102-103.) 
 
First, the Arbitration Agreement
explicitly provides if this dispute is related to employment, the employer will
bear the cost of arbitration. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1, ¶6.) Moreover, although it
is silent as to discovery, express discovery language is not necessary because,
“when parties agree to arbitrate statutory claims, they also implicitly agree,
absent express language to the contrary, to such procedures as are necessary to
vindicate that claim.” (Ramos v. Superior Court (2018) 28
Cal.App.5th 1042, 1062, quoting Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at 106.) As for a neutral arbitrator, although the agreement does not
explicitly state ‘neutral’, it says one must be selected (with no limitations)
and if the parties cannot agree to one, the arbitrator will be selected by the
AAA. This seems to provide for a neutral arbitrator. Lastly, the Arbitration
Agreement does provide the “parties agree to enter arbitration through the
American Arbitration Association and abide by the Commercial Arbitration Rules
of the American Arbitration Association. (Pingle Decl., Exh. 1, ¶2.) The
Commercial Arbitration Rules explicitly provide an award shall be in writing. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 