

Hearing Date:             July 17, 2024  
Case Name:                 Eloisa Villa v. Wayne Eugene
Redmond
Case
No.:                    24STCV06048            
Motion:                       Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint
Moving
Party:             Defendant Wayne Eugene
Redmond

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Eloisa Villa


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendant’s Demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.
 

 
            This case
is a criminal legal malpractice[1]
action filed by client Eloisa Villa (Villa/Plaintiff) against attorney Wayne
Eugene Redmond (Redmond/Defendant). The Complaint alleges that Redmond
represented Villa when Villa was criminally charged with assault in violation
of Penal Code section 245, subdivision (a)(4) and aggravated mayhem in
violation of Penal Code section 205. The Complaint alleges that Redmond
negligently advised Villa to plead guilty to Penal Code section 205.
(Complaint, ¶ 6.) As a result, Villa was imprisoned for almost five years
longer than she would have been. (Id.) 
 
            Defendant
demurs to the Complaint.  Plaintiff filed
opposition to which Defendant replied. 
 
In opposing the demurrer, Plaintiff
misrepresents the facts and disregards the law. 
Because Plaintiff fails to plead, and cannot in good faith plead, actual
innocence, and cannot show postconviction exoneration, the demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend.  
 
Judicial Notice
 
             Redmond filed a Request for Judicial Notice
(RJN), requesting that the Court judicially notice a Minute Order dated March
8, 2022 in the case of People of the State of California v. Elois Maria
Villa, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. PA0873324. The request is
granted. 
 
            Likewise,
Villa files their own RJN with their opposition, requesting the Court grant
judicial notice to the court reporter’s transcript of court proceedings
regarding the resentencing of Villa in the same case. The request is granted.         
 
Meet and Confer
 
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a).) Attached to their demurrer, Redmond includes the Declaration of
Stephen R. Rykoff which states that Defense counsel sent a letter to
Plaintiff’s counsel on April 24, 2024, however, there is no indication that any
communication occurred in-person or telephonically. Therefore, the requirements
remain unsatisfied. However, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(a)(4),
“A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” 
 
Legal Standard
 
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
            “To state a
cause of action for legal malpractice, a plaintiff must plead (1) the duty of
the attorney to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or
her profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the attorney’s negligence.” (Kumaraperu v. Feldsted (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 60, 66, quotation marks omitted.) 
 
In addition, in a criminal
malpractice proceeding, the plaintiff must prove actual innocence (Wiley v.
County of San Diego, supra, 19 Cal.4th 532, 545 (Wiley).)
and reversal of her conviction or other exoneration by postconviction relief. (Coscia
v. McKenna & Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1194, 1201 (Coscia).)  These are the two elements that Villa fails
to plead and cannot prove.
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendant Redmon negligently advised plaintiff to plead guilty to
violation of Penal Code section 205 - aggravated mayhem . . .” (Compl., ¶ 6.)  Based on the transcript of the proceedings,
however, that is untrue.  Plaintiff did
not plead guilty to section 205, but to Penal Code section 203, “ordinary”
mayhem.  As reflected in the minute order
of the pretrial hearing in Plaintiff’s criminal case, the prosecution moved,
and the court ordered, an amendment to the information “to read violation of
203 PC instead of 205 PC.”  As the minute
order reveals, Ms. Villa “pleads nolo contendere with the approval of the court
to a violation of Section 203 PC in count 02. The court finds defendant
guilty.”[2]   Plaintiff’s Complaint is therefore inaccurate
that Defendant Redmond advised Ms. Villa to plead guilty to Penal Code section
205 or that she did so. Thus, the fundamental premise of the malpractice action
is erroneous.
 
In opposition to the demurrer,
Plaintiff simply ignores these facts. Rather, Plaintiff appears to contend that
the plea amounted to some sort of post-conviction relief.  Plaintiff Villa argues:  “Because the court recognized the error of
the prior charge, there was post-conviction relief, the effect of which was the
implied finding of actual innocence of violation of Penal Code section 205.”  Thus, Plaintiff continues to insist that she
pleaded guilty to aggravated mayhem when she did not, and that the amendment of
the plea to ordinary mayhem for which she was found guilty was an “implied
finding of actual innocence.”
 
Plaintiff appears to confuse her
plea to Penal Code section 203 with different proceedings, about one year
later, in which the People moved to recall the sentence, and permitted her to
plead guilty to violation to Penal Code section 245, subdivision (a)(4) – also
a felony, and be resentenced, to which the Court agreed.  In what the trial court characterized as a
“resentencing,” Ms. Villa pleaded nolo contendere to assault likely to produce
great bodily injury, with an aggravating factor.  That is reflected in the transcript submitted
by Plaintiff. 
 
Her Complaint fails to state a
cause of action, however, because Plaintiff has not pleaded actual innocence or
an exoneration.  More to the point, she
cannot prove either actual innocence or exoneration, because she was found
guilty – because of her nolo contendere plea – to the assault charge, involving
the same incident.  She admitted her
guilt – not actual innocence – and she was sentenced for a felony – not
exonerated. This was neither a finding of actual innocence nor an
exoneration.  
 
In her Opposition memorandum
Plaintiff argues that a “specific underlying finding of ‘actual innocence’ is
not required; rather, only a record of post-conviction relief is
required.”  Just as she misstated the
facts in her Complaint, Plaintiff misconceives the law.  To establish a legal malpractice claim,
Plaintiff must demonstrate both actual innocence and post-conviction
exoneration.  (Sangha v. LaBarbera
(2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 79, 84-86 [“to maintain a legal malpractice
action against a former attorney in a criminal proceeding, Plaintiff must
demonstrate actual innocence and postconviction relief” (capitalization
omitted)](Sangha).)
 
            In Wiley,
supra, our Supreme Court held “that in a criminal malpractice action actual
innocence is a necessary element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.” (19 Cal.4th
532, 545.)  Among the policy
considerations underlying this requirement was that “ ‘permitting a convicted
criminal to pursue a legal malpractice claim without requiring proof of
innocence would allow the criminal to profit by his own fraud, or to take
advantage of his own wrong….’ ” (Id. at p. 537. Reasoned the high court,
“[o]nly an innocent person wrongly convicted due to inadequate representation
has suffered a compensable injury….” (Id. at p. 539.)  
 
            Three years
later, the Supreme Court, relying on the same policy considerations as
discussed in Wiley, held that in order to show actual innocence in a
legal malpractice action, a former criminal defendant must obtain
postconviction exoneration.  In Coscia
v. McKenna & Cuneo, supra, 25 Cal.4th 1194, 1201, the Court
explained that the convicted individual “must obtain reversal of his or her
conviction or other exoneration by postconviction relief…”  This does not include a resentencing based on
a plea to a different felony, as was granted to Ms. Villa.  Rather, the Supreme Court explained, the
plaintiff “must obtain postconviction relief in the form of a final disposition
of the underlying criminal case – for example, by acquittal after retrial,
reversal on appeal with directions to dismiss the charges, reversal followed by
the People’s refusal to continue the prosecution, or a grant of habeas corpus
relief – as a prerequisite to proving actual innocence in a malpractice action
against former criminal defense counsel.” (Id. at p. 1205.)
 
            Although
Plaintiff claims that her resentencing amounted to an exoneration, she offers
no authority for this proposition.  On
its face, a nolo plea to a felony is not an exoneration, and cannot prove
actual innocence.  The Court of Appeal
has addressed cases similar to this one, when a nolo plea is entered to a
lesser included offense, or to an offense arising from the same circumstances.
In those cases, the appellate court concluded that the plaintiffs failed to
establish the requisite elements for a criminal malpractice claim.  
 
            In Sangha
v. LaBarbera, supra, 146 Cal.App.4th 79, plaintiff accused his
criminal defense attorney of negligence for advising him to plead to felony
vandalism. He succeeded in having the plea set aside and instead pleaded guilty
to misdemeanor vandalism. In the malpractice proceeding, the trial court
granted the former lawyer’s motion for summary judgment because plaintiff
failed to show postconviction exoneration and could not establish actual
innocence.  The Court of Appeal affirmed,
reasoning that “the rationale of Wiley and Coscia requires a
plaintiff in a criminal legal malpractice case to show actual innocence and
postconviction exoneration on any guilty finding for a lesser included
offense….”     Sangha is
instructive here. In that case, the only guilty plea was to a misdemeanor; Ms.
Villa pleaded nolo to a felony. 
Nevertheless, the plea to the lesser charge was not deemed an
exoneration, and was the opposite of a finding of actual innocence.
 
            A similar
result was reached in Wilkinson v. Zelen (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
37 (Wilkinson).  Plaintiff
Wilkinson was convicted of a felony and two misdemeanors, which were later
vacated.  Pursuant to a plea bargain, she
entered no contest to two misdemeanors. 
In Wilkinson’s malpractice case, the trial court sustained a demurrer
without leave to amend “because she did not plead she was factually innocent
and she was not exonerated by postconviction relief.” (Id. at p. 39.)
The case different slightly from Sangha¸ because while Wilkinson pleaded
to misdemeanors that were “transactionally related offenses,” they did not qualify
as included offenses.  The Court of
Appeal held that “Wilkinson must be exonerated of all transactionally related
offenses in order to satisfy the holding in Coscia. Because the
judicially noticed facts unequivocally demonstrate that Wilkinson plead[ed] no
contest to two offenses transactionally related to the felony charge…she cannot
in good faith plead exoneration.”  (Id.
at 48.)  Here, Plaintiff Villa pleaded no
contest to a felony charge – assault – that was originally one of the two
counts she was charged with, obviously “transactionally related.”   She is not factually innocent; she has not
been exonerated.  
 
Wilkinson also explained why
denying leave to amend after sustaining the demurrer was correct. (Wilkinson,
supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 49.) Villa has the burden to
demonstrate how she can amend the complaint. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) Here, as in Wilkinson, “given the immutable facts,
[Plaintiff] cannot in good faith plead factual innocence of a crime or
exoneration.”  (Wilkinson, supra, 167
Cal.App.4th at p. 49.)
 
Conclusion  
            
Defendant’s Demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  Plaintiff’s
Complaint is dismissed with prejudice.


