 Case Number:  24STCV13624    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




VANESSA MARTINEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
general motors, llc, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV13624




Hearing Date:


November 20, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
GENERAL MOTORS
  LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
GENERAL MOTORS
  LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED
  COMPLAINT




            
            Background
Plaintiff Vanessa Martinez (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on May 31, 2024 against Defendant General Motors, LLC
(“Defendant”). 
On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleges causes of action for
(1) breach of implied warranty of merchantability, (2) breach of express
warranty, (3) fraudulent concealment, and (4) violation of Civil Code section 1750, et seq., The Consumers
Legal Remedies Act. 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “[o]n February 19, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a 2021 Chevrolet
Silverado 1500, VIN 24 1GCPYFEL9MZ244860 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Vehicle’),
for personal, family, and/or household purposes. The Vehicle was purchased for
a total consideration over the term of the Retail Installment Sale Contract (‘Contract’)
of $82,702.08.” (FAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleges that she “has delivered the
Vehicle to the Defendants’ authorized service and repair facilities, agents
and/or dealers, on multiple occasions resulting in the Vehicle being out of
service by reason of repair of nonconformities.” (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges
that “[e]ach time Plaintiff delivered the nonconforming Vehicle to Defendants’
authorized service and repair facility, Defendants, and each of them,
represented to Plaintiff that they could and would conform the Vehicle to the
applicable warranties, that in fact they did conform the Vehicle to said
warranties, and that all the defects, malfunctions, misadjustments, and/or
nonconformities have been repaired; however, Defendants or its representatives
failed to conform the Vehicle to the applicable warranties because said
defects, malfunctions, misadjustments, and/or nonconformities continue to exist
even after a reasonable number of attempts to repair was given.” (FAC, ¶ 12.)
Plaintiff also alleges that “[t]his action arises from Defendants’
failure, despite its longstanding knowledge of a material manufacturing defect,
to disclose to its consumers, including Plaintiff, that certain 2021 Chevrolet
Silverado 1500 vehicles, including the Vehicle, are predisposed to defects in
the 6.2L V8 engine…” (FAC, ¶ 15.) 
Defendant now demurs to the third and fourth
causes of action of the FAC, and moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages. Plaintiff opposes both.  
Demurrer 
A.   
Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Third Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Concealment 
Defendant
first asserts that the fraudulent concealment cause of action fails because the
FAC fails to plead fraud with the required specificity. In the third cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[w]ell before Plaintiff purchased the
Vehicle, Defendants knew about the incessant and irremediable problems that
plagued the Defective Engine and knew that the Vehicle was equipped with the
Defective Engine. Defendants were under a duty to disclose the Defective Engine
problems because of the nature and extent of the problem which clearly posed
safety issues.” (FAC, ¶ 109.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants intentionally
concealed and refused to resolve the issues created by the Defective Engine as
explained in detail in this First Amended Complaint.” (FAC, ¶ 111.) 
Defendant
cites to Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645, where the California Supreme Court
noted that “[i]n California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. Thus the
policy of liberal construction of the pleadings…will not ordinarily be invoked
to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect. This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted, emphasis in original.) Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint falls far short of meeting this standard. Plaintiff fails to identify
the salesperson with whom Plaintiff spoke, what advertisements or marketing
brochures Plaintiff reviewed or relied upon in purchasing the Subject Vehicle…how
long ‘prior to purchasing the Vehicle’ he [sic] viewed them, and which
representation therein he [sic] relied upon; and whether those materials, if
any, were prepared by GM or someone else (such as a dealership).” (Demurrer at
pp. 7:27-8:5.) 
Plaintiff counters that
this argument is off-point because Plaintiff’s “FAC alleges fraudulent
concealment, which is a subspecies of the tort of fraud/deceit…” (Opp’n at p.
4:17-18.) Indeed, in Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1356, 1384, cited by Plaintiff, the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n
California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations
do not suffice. Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings…will
not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect…This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.
This statement of the rule reveals that it is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations. If the duty to disclose arises from the making of
representations that were misleading or false, then those allegations should be
described. However, as noted above…plaintiffs have apparently abandoned their
earlier claims of intentional and negligent misrepresentations. As plaintiffs
accurately respond, it is harder to apply this rule to a case of simple
nondisclosure. How does one show how and by what means something didn’t happen,
or when it never happened, or where it never happened?” (Internal quotations
and citations omitted.) Here, Plaintiff’s third cause of action is for
fraudulent concealment and alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants
intentionally concealed and refused to resolve the issues created by the
Defective Engine…” (FAC, ¶ 111.) 
Next, Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff has also failed to plead with specificity, as required, facts
supporting any allegation that GM intended to defraud it by either making
affirmative statements or failing to disclose material facts.” (Demurrer at p.
8:5-7.) In the opposition, Plaintiff notes that “[t]he elements of a cause of
action for fraud based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Internal quotations omitted.) 
In the third cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants intentionally concealed and refused
to resolve the issues created by the Defective Engine as explained in detail in
this First Amended Complaint.” (FAC, ¶ 111.) Plaintiff further alleges, inter
alia, that “Defendants have been aware of the Defective Engine since at
least early 2007,” and that “as the number of complaints increased, and
consumers grew dissatisfied with the Defective Engine, Defendants were forced
to acknowledge that certain models equipped with the Defective Engine,
including the Vehicle, suffer from an inherent defect. Instead of providing an
adequate repair for the Defective Engine, however, Defendants have simply
attempted to mask the Defective Engine without providing a solution that
addresses the defect…Defendants’ acts were done to gain commercial advantage
over competitors, and to drive consumers away from consideration of competitor’s
vehicles. When having become aware of the plagued Defective Engine at least as
early as 2007, Defendants had the option of informing consumers of the
irremediable problems that would invariably occur and persist or, better yet,
develop a permanent fix to the Defective Engine. Unfortunately for Plaintiff
and California consumers, Defendants chose to simply ignore the problem and
intentionally conceal the truth to this day.” (FAC, ¶¶ 18, 20-21.) The Court
finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged the “intent to defraud” element for
purposes of her fraudulent concealment cause of action. 
Defendant also argues
that “Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim fails because Plaintiff does not
allege a transactional relationship between GM and Plaintiff giving rise to a
duty to disclose.” (Demurrer at p. 8:13-15.) As set forth above, one of the
elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment is “the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff.” ((Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.) “There are four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. Where…a fiduciary
relationship does not exist between the parties, only the latter three
circumstances may apply. These three circumstances, however, presuppose[] the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in
which a duty to disclose can arise. A duty to disclose facts arises only
when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as
seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.” ((Id. at p.
311 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
The
Bigler-Engler Court noted that “[o]ur Supreme Court
has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a
‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and the
defendant: In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or
confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of material facts
may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes representations
but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or
which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are known or
accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known to or
reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
discovery from the plaintiff…Such a transaction must necessarily arise from
direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise
between the defendant and the public at large.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at pp. 311-312 [internal quotations,
citations, and emphasis omitted].) 
Defendant
argues that here, “[t]he
First Amended Complaint does not allege that Plaintiff purchased the Subject
Vehicle directly from GM. Thus, any alleged concealment by GM did not arise in
a direct transaction between Plaintiff and GM…Thus, as a matter of law,
Plaintiff cannot establish that GM had a duty to disclose.” (Demurrer at p.
10:2-6.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff first asserts that “GM’s Notice does not identify failure to allege a
transactional relationship giving a rise to a duty to disclose as one of the
grounds for demurrer.” (Opp’n at p. 7:17-18.)[1] But
Defendant’s demurrer provides, inter alia, that “GM hereby demurs to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint on the following grounds: 1. The Third
Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment fails to state facts sufficient to
establish the fraud cause of action. (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 430.10(e).” (Demurrer at p. 2:3-5.) The Court finds that this is
sufficient. 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that the FAC “does not allege that
Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle directly from GM.” (Demurrer at p.
10:2-3.) However, Plaintiff argues that “the FAC alleges the Vehicle was
purchased with GM’s Express Written Warranties and that a transactional
relationship between Plaintiff and GM does exist…” (Opp’n at p. 7:26-27.) In
the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff received written warranties and
other express and implied warranties including, but not limited to, warranties
from Defendants that the Vehicle and its components would be free from all
defects in material and workmanship; that the Vehicle would pass without
objection in the trade under the Contract description; that the Vehicle would
be fit for the ordinary purposes for which it was intended; that the Vehicle
would conform to the promises and affirmations of fact made, that it would
provide safe and reliable transportation; that Defendants would perform any
repairs, alignments, adjustments, and/or replacements of any parts necessary to
ensure that the Vehicle was free from any defects in material and workmanship.”
(FAC, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff also appears to note that the FAC alleges, “[s]ales of
motor vehicles to consumers take place through Defendants’ authorized dealerships,”
and that “[b]ased upon the legal right Defendants have to control the authorized
dealerships, Defendants impliedly and expressly acknowledged that Defendants’
authorized dealerships are its sales agents, and the authorized dealerships
have accepted that undertaking.” (FAC, ¶¶ 79-80.) 
Plaintiff cites to Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844,
where the Court of Appeal found that “[i]n its short argument on this point in
its appellate brief, Nissan argues plaintiffs did not adequately
plead the existence of a buyer-seller relationship between the parties, because
plaintiffs bought the car from a Nissan dealership (not
from Nissan itself). At the pleading stage (and in the absence of a
more developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude
plaintiffs[’] allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs alleged that they bought
the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the
car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are
its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers.
In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred
on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose
known defects.” Plaintiff argues that here, she “made substantially similar
allegations in her FAC” as were made by the plaintiff in Dhital. (Opp’n at p.
8:11.) 
But as Plaintiff
acknowledges, on February 1, 2023, the California Supreme Court granted a
petition for review in Dhital. (See Dhital v.
Nissan N. Am. (Cal. 2023) 523 P.3d
392, “[t]he petition for review is granted. Further action in this
matter is deferred pending consideration and disposition of a related issue
in Rattagan v. Uber Techs., Inc., S272113 (see
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.512(d)(2)), or pending
further order of the court…[t]he request for an order directing depublication
of the opinion is denied.”) The Court notes that pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subdivision
(e)(1), “[p]ending review and filing of
the Supreme Court’s opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court
under (3), a published opinion of a Court of Appeal in the matter has no
binding or precedential effect, and may be cited for potentially persuasive
value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal opinion must also note the
grant of review and any subsequent action by the Supreme Court.” 
Plaintiff also argues that the “FAC is replete
with allegations that GM had exclusive knowledge of material facts regarding
the Defective Engine and GM made representations but actively concealed those material
facts from Plaintiff and the public in general.” (Opp’n at p. 9:15-18, emphasis
omitted.) Plaintiff cites to, inter alia, paragraph 15 of the FAC, which alleges that “[t]his action
arises from Defendants’ failure, despite its longstanding knowledge of a
material manufacturing defect, to disclose to its consumers, including
Plaintiff, that certain 2021 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 vehicles, including the
Vehicle, are predisposed to defects in the 6.2L V8 engine (the ‘Defective
Engine’)…” (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants had exclusive
knowledge of the Defective Engine and the dangers caused by it…” (FAC, ¶ 43.) As set forth
above, the Bigler-Engler
Court noted that “[i]n transactions which
do not involve fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for
non-disclosure of material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the
defendant makes representations but does not disclose facts which materially
qualify the facts disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead;
(2) the facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows
they are not known to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant actively conceals discovery from the plaintiff.”(Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311 [internal quotations and emphasis
omitted].) But as discussed above, the Bigler-Engler Court also found
that “[s]uch a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between
the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc., supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 312.)
Here, Plaintiff does not appear to demonstrate that the allegations of the FAC
show “direct dealings” between Plaintiff and Defendant. 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for fraudulent concealment, with leave to amend.[2]  
 
C.    Fourth Cause of Action for “Violation of Civil
Code [Section] 1750 et seq. The Consumers Legal Remedies Act…” 
With
respect to the fourth cause of action, Defendant first argues that “Plaintiff
failed to provide the adequate notice required to properly plead a CLRA
violation.” (Demurrer at p. 10:8-9.) Plaintiff cites to Civil
Code section 1782, subdivision (a), which provides that “(a) Thirty days or more prior to the
commencement of an action for damages pursuant to this title, the consumer
shall do the following: (1) Notify the person alleged to have employed or
committed methods, acts, or practices declared unlawful by Section 1770 of the particular alleged violations of Section 1770. (2) Demand that the person correct,
repair, replace, or otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to be in
violation of Section 1770. The notice shall be in
writing and shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the place where the transaction occurred or to the person’s
principal place of business within California.” However, 
Defendant does not provide any analysis
in the demurrer as to why Plaintiff purportedly “failed to provide the adequate
notice” under Civil Code section 1782. In addition,
the fourth cause of action alleges that “Plaintiff complied with the notice
provisions of Civ. Code § 1782 by notifying
Defendants on May 31, 2024, of the particular alleged violations of Civ. Code § 1770 and demanding that it correct,
repair, replace, or otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to be in
violation of Civ. Code § 1770. The notice was given
in writing and was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
Defendants. Defendants have failed, within thirty (30) days of receipt, to respond
to Plaintiff’s demand and/or provide Plaintiff with an appropriate correction,
repair, replacement, relief, cure or any other remedy.” (FAC, ¶ 128.) Defendant
does not appear to address this allegation in the demurrer.[3] 
            In
addition, in heading “D” of the demurrer, Defendant argues “Plaintiff’s
allegations fail to state a viable claim for violation of the CLRA.” (Demurrer
at p. 11:2-3.) However, the arguments below such heading appear to solely
concern Plaintiff’s third cause of action for fraudulent concealment. (See
Demurrer at pp. 11:2-12:3.) As noted by Plaintiff, “[t]hough GM’s Section V(D)
is labeled ‘Plaintiff’s Allegations Fail to State a Viable Claim for Violation
of the CLRA’, the section does not mention the CLRA statute itself or any CLRA
case law.” (Opp’n at p. 4:5-7.) 
            Plaintiff
also argues that “Plaintiff’s CLRA claim fails because Plaintiff failed to
plead fraud with the required specificity.” (Demurrer at p. 14:4-5.) This
argument is confusing, as the fourth cause of action is not one for fraud. In Consumer Advocates v. Echostar Satellite Corp. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1360,
the Court of Appeal noted that “the CLRA…concerns unfair methods of competition
and unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and which is intended to protect
consumers against unfair and deceptive business practices and to provide
efficient and economical procedures to secure such protection, and which is
cumulative to other legal remedies.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
In the fourth cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants violated and
continue to violate the CLRA because Defendants’ conduct amounts to unfair
methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in that
Defendants did one or more of the following: (5) Represented the goods or
services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses,
benefits, or quantities that they do not have, or that a person has a
sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or connection that the person does
not have. (7) Represented that goods or services are of a particular standard,
quality, or grade, or that goods are of a particular style or model, if they
are another. (9) Advertised goods or services with intent not to sell them as
advertised. (14)
Represented that a transaction confers or involves rights, remedies, or
obligations that it does not have or involve or that are prohibited by law.”
(FAC, ¶ 122.) 
Defendant appears to
argue that the violations alleged in paragraph 122 of
the FAC are insufficient because “Plaintiff did not identify when, where,
or how GM misrepresented the source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of
his [sic] Silverado; nor did Plaintiff allege facts showing that GM
misrepresented anything about the source, sponsorship, approval, or
certification of their [sic] Silverado. Plaintiff did not identify the
particular standard, quality, or grade that GM represented the Silverado as having;
nor did Plaintiff allege facts showing when, where, or how GM misrepresented a
particular standard for, quality of, or grade in the Silverado…Finally,
Plaintiff did not identify any representation that GM made about the Subject
Vehicle that pre-dates Plaintiff’s purchase, nor has Plaintiff alleged facts
showing when, where, or how GM represented that the Subject Vehicle was
supplied in accordance with a previous representation.” (Demurrer at pp. 15:22-16:5
[emphasis omitted].) Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s CLRA claim fails as a
matter of law because Plaintiff did not identify the alleged misrepresentations
with specificity…” (Demurrer at p. 15:5-6).
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff counters that “GM mistakenly argues that a heightened
pleading standard applies to CLRA claims, similar to that of common law fraud
causes of action and relies on cases that actually do not even stand for GM’s
proposition. There is no heightened pleading requirement for CLRA claims, even
if they sound in fraud.” (Opp’n at p. 11:23-26.) Indeed, Defendant does not
appear to cite to any legal authority demonstrating that a heightened pleading
standard applicable to claims for fraud applies to Plaintiff’s cause of action
for violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act. As noted by Plaintiff,
Defendant relies on Consumer Advocates v. Echostar
Satellite Corp., supra,,
but such case does not appear to discuss pleading standards applicable to a
cause of action for the violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiff
cites to Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores
California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
1234, 1261, where the Court of Appeal concluded that “causes of
action under the CLRA and UCL must be stated with reasonable particularity,
which is a more lenient pleading standard than is applied to common law fraud
claims.” Defendant does not appear to address the Gutierrez case in the
reply.  
The Court does not find
that Defendant has shown that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for violation
of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act is deficient. Based
on the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause
of action. 
Motion to Strike 
A court may strike any “¿irrelevant, false,
or improper matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of a pleading “¿not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.)
“¿The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)  
Defendant moves to strike the demand “[f]or
punitive damages” contained in the Prayer for Relief. (FAC, Prayer for Relief,
¶ E.) Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection with the third cause of
action for fraudulent concealment and the fourth cause of action for violation
of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act. (See FAC, ¶¶ 116, 127, 129.) 
Defendant argues that “Plaintiff has not pled a viable fraud claim or
any other cause of action that can support a punitive damages claim.” (Mot. at
p. 3:6-7.) As set forth above, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the
third cause of action for fraudulent concealment, with leave to amend. As to
the fourth cause of action for violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act,
Defendant argues that it “incorporates the arguments set forth in its
concurrently-filed Demurrer as if fully set forth herein…If Plaintiff’s
underlying CLRA claim fails for any reason, then the corresponding punitive
damage claim must be stricken…” (Mot. at p. 6:11-13.) As set forth above, the
Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action of the FAC. 
Defendant also argues that “independent of its ruling on GM’s
Demurrer, this Court should grant this motion without leave to amend. Plaintiff
has not sufficiently pled, and cannot sufficiently plead, that GM has engaged
in actions amounting to the award of punitive damages.” (Mot. at p. 6:14-17.)  
A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged do not rise to¿the
level of “malice,¿oppression¿or fraud” required to support a punitive damages
award. (¿¿See Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63-64¿¿.)¿“¿‘Malice’
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.¿” (¿¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)¿¿.) “¿‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.¿” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2)¿.) “¿‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.¿” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3)¿.)¿¿ 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged “fraud” for
purposes of her request for punitive damages. As set forth above, in the fourth
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants violated and continue to violate the CLRA because
Defendants’ conduct amounts to unfair methods of competition and unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in that Defendants did one or more of the
following: (5) Represented the goods or services have sponsorship, approval,
characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits, or quantities that they do not
have, or that a person has a sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or
connection that the person does not have. (7) Represented that goods or
services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of
a particular style or model, if they are another. (9) Advertised goods or
services with intent not to sell them as advertised. (14) Represented that a transaction
confers or involves rights, remedies, or obligations that it does not have or
involve or that are prohibited by law.” (FAC, ¶ 122.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants
have been aware of the incessant and irremediable problems caused by the
Defective Engine since at least 2007 and, nevertheless, continue to deceive
consumers like Plaintiff by intentionally concealing the truth.” (FAC, ¶ 124.) Plaintiff
alleges that she has “suffered harm and damages due to or as a result of
Defendants’ acts or omissions, including but not limited to transaction costs
and opportunity costs.” (FAC, ¶ 135.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike.[4]  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the
third cause of action of the FAC, with leave to amend. The Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action. The Court denies
Defendant’s motion to strike. 
The
Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within
20 days of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this
Order, Defendant is ordered to file and serve its answer within 30 days of this
Order. 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  November 20, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


