  Case Number:  23STCV20219    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:             April 25, 2024
Case Name:                Edwards v. City of Los Angeles
Case No.:                    23STCV20219
Matter:                        Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             (1.) Defendants Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Bennie Myers, and Vincent
Arrington

                                    (2.)
Joinder by Anthony Williams

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Tina Edwards


Tentative Ruling:        The Demurrer is
sustained as to the first cause of action for discrimination based on race and
disability, the second cause of action for harassment based on race and disability,
the fourth and fifth causes of action; the demurrer to the eighth cause of
action is moot. Based on the joinder, the demurrer
is also sustained as the causes of action alleged against Defendant Williams.
The Motion to Strike is granted. 

 
            On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff Tina Edwards
(Plaintiff) sued Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (MTA), Anthony Williams (Williams), Torry Heard (Heard), Bennie Myers
(Myers), and Vincent Arrington (Arrington).
 
            On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint (FAC), alleging causes of action for (1)
discrimination in violation of the FEHA; (2) hostile work environment
harassment in violation of the FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation of the FEHA;
(4) failure to provide reasonable accommodation in violation of the FEHA; (5)
failure to engage in the interactive process in violation of FEHA; (6) failure
to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation in violation of FEHA; (7)
whistleblower retaliation (Labor code § 1102.5); and (8) intentional infliction
of emotional distress.
 
On
February 27, 2024, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority,
Bennie Myers, and Vincent Arrington demurred to the First Amended Complaint. On
February 28, 2024, Defendants also filed a motion to strike portions of the FAC.
On March 7, 2024, Defendant Williams filed a
joinder to the demurrer and motion to strike.
 
Plaintiff
opposed the demurrer and motion to strike, and also opposed Defendant Williams’s
joinder.
 
The
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. The motion to strike is granted with
leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial
notice is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452.) 
Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.)  
 
Analysis 
 
            Defendants
demur to Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that the allegations contained in
Plaintiff’s FAC fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action
for 1.) discrimination on the basis of disability and race; 2.) harassment on
the basis of disability and race; 3.) failure to provide reasonable
accommodations; 4.) failure to engage in the good faith interactive process;
and 5.) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
First Cause of Action for Discrimination[1]
 
            FEHA
prohibits an employer from discriminating against any employee based on race,
age, sex or other protected characteristics. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)
To withstand demurrer, the plaintiff must sufficiently plead all elements of a
discrimination cause of action: (1) that she was a member of a protected class;
(2) that she was adequately performing the essential functions of her position;
(3) that she suffered an adverse employment action; and (4) that the
circumstances suggest a discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel National,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355; see also De Jung v. Superior Court
(2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 551 [requiring causal relationship between
discriminatory animus and adverse employment action].)


First
Cause of Action for Disability Discrimination
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to
state a claim for disability discrimination. 
 
            The
elements for a disability discrimination claim under FEHA requires a showing
that (1) the plaintiff suffered from a disability, (2) the plaintiff was
otherwise qualified to do his or her job, with or without reasonable
accommodation, and (3) the plaintiff was subjected to adverse employment action
because of the disability. (Castro-Ramirez v. Dependable Highway Express,
Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 1028, 1037.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges that she suffered from anxiety and depression when she worked
for Defendants, which constituted a disability because it affected one or more
major life activities, including having trouble breathing, difficulty
performing job functions, and difficulty sleeping. (FAC ¶15
(f),(h),(i),(j),(w),(aa).) Further, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff suffered
numerous adverse employment actions because of her disability, such as being
excluded from communications and information, overlooked for opportunities,
denied training and being ignored when she asked for assistance. (FAC ¶15(k).) 
 
            On demurrer, Defendants contend that
the FAC fails to allege sufficient allegations showing a causal relationship between
her disability arising from anxiety and depression and these purported adverse
employment decisions. 
 
            The demurrer is well taken. The allegations
tying her alleged disability and Plaintiff’s adverse employment decisions are entirely
conclusory. For example, she states that no one would train her on her new
route, but (even assuming this constitutes an adverse employment decision) there
is no tie between her disability and the person responsible for denying her this
training. Plaintiff’s other disability discrimination allegations suffer
similar defects. 
 
The demurrer to this cause of action as applied to an
alleged disability is sustained. 
 
First
Cause of Action for Race Discrimination
 
Defendants also demur to the
first cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim
for discrimination based on race. As Defendants note, Plaintiff points to two
unrelated comments pertaining to her race and then concludes that subsequent
employment action was based on her race.
 
In support of the racial
discrimination claim, Plaintiff argues that the FAC alleges, in September 2022,
non-party Hynes (described as the “Union Chairman”) called Plaintiff into his
office to reprimand her about making protected complaints regarding sexual
harassment because she was Black. (FAC ¶ 15(t).) Then, “in retaliation” for
making the complaint, Plaintiff was involuntarily transferred to a new
Division. (FAC ¶ 15(t).) 
 
These allegations are confusing.
First, it is unclear that non-party Hynes made the adverse employment decision
of transferring Plaintiff or that he exercises any management or control over Plaintiff
to even effectuate the transfer. Second, although there is a reference to
Plaintiff’s race, the allegation is vague as to the Hynes’ racial animus as
being the basis of the adverse employment decision; in fact, the allegation
more clearly supports a claim for retaliation for making the sexual harassment
complaint rather than racial discrimination.
 
Additionally, in January and
February 2023, Defendant Myers approached her and called her “exotic” and said that
he “never had a Jamaican before” but that it was “on [his] bucketlist,” while
making suggestive movements with his groin. (FAC ¶15(u), (v).) When Plaintiff
complained about this conduct to two supervisors, the supervisors allegedly did
nothing but tell her that she was the one who needed verbal counseling and a
sexual harassment class. (FAC ¶15(z).) 
 
Again, the allegations do not
show that her supervisor ignored the complaint based on her race. Nor do
these allegations show even a specific adverse employment action based on
her race. Defendants do not demur to the claim to the extent it alleges
discrimination based on Plaintiff’s sex/gender, so that claim in the first
cause of action remains.
 
Because the FAC fails to allege
that any adverse employment action was taken because of her race, the demurrer to
the first cause of action on that basis is sustained. 
 
Second Cause of Action for Harassment
 
To establish a prima facie case
of harassment under the FEHA, the Plaintiff must show that: (1) she was a
member of a protected class; (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment
based on her protected status; and (3) the harassment unreasonably interfered
with her work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
work environment. (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
860, 867.)
 
Second
Cause of Action for Harassment on the Basis of Disability
 
            In
arguing that Plaintiff suffered harassment based on her disability, Plaintiff points
to her allegations that her work environment grew increasingly hostile, Plaintiff
was excluded from communications and information, was overlooked for
opportunities, refused assistance, and ostracized. (FAC ¶15(k).) These are the
same allegations that Plaintiff relies upon to demonstrate discrimination. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that when
she spoke to her supervisor, about this alleged harassment, she was “repeatedly
cut off” and made to feel like nothing would be done. (FAC ¶ 15 (y).)
 
            However,
there are no allegations showing harassment by Defendants based on her
disability. Thus, assuming that these conclusory allegations of a hostile work
environment were sufficient, they fail to demonstrate that the environment was
hostile because of Defendants’ conduct towards Plaintiff based on her
disability. That is, as the Reply correctly notes, none of Plaintiff’s allegations
raise even the inference that she was subject to any harassment because
of her disability of anxiety and depression. 
 
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action as it concerns disability is sustained.
 
Second
Cause of Action for Harassment on the Basis of Race
 
            In
arguing for harassment based on race, Plaintiff relies on the same conduct as
the discrimination claim. 
 
For similar reasons as the
discrimination claim, this claim is also defective. Plaintiff alleges she
experienced harassment based on race by Defendant Myers during one isolated
incident involving a statement that Plaintiff was Jamaican. This isolated
incident merely referencing Plaintiff’s race is insufficient to show harassment
based on Plaintiff’s race. 
 
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action as it concerns race is sustained.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Failure to
Provide Reasonable Accommodation
 
            To
state a claim for failure to provide reasonable
accommodation, Plaintiff must show that (1) she has a disability; (2) she
was qualified to perform the essential functions of the position; and (3) her
employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability. (Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1009-1010.)
 
            “While a claim of failure to
accommodate is independent of a cause of action for failure to engage in an
interactive dialogue, each necessarily implicates the other.” (Gelfo v.
Lockheed Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 54.) Reasonable
accommodations include, among things, job restructuring, modified work
schedules, and reassignments to vacant positions. (Hanson v. Lucky Stores,
Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215, 225.)


            In October 2020, Plaintiff told her supervisor,
Marisol Doe, that she was experiencing severe anxiety about going to work given
the ongoing harassment, but Marisol Doe “did not engage in a meaningful
discussion and instead told Plaintiff that she had no option but to come into
work.” (FAC ¶15(h).) Marisol Doe also indicated that she would refer Plaintiff to
counseling. (FAC ¶ 15(h).) When Plaintiff’s initial harasser committed suicide,
Plaintiff alleges that she experienced extreme anxiety but was only afforded
one day off, despite stating that she needed more time to tend to her mental
health. (FAC ¶ 15(i).)
 
            The claim fails as a matter of law.
All Plaintiff’s allegations show is that she was not afforded the accommodation
for her disability that she wanted – more time off. However, employers are not
required to provide the accommodation the employee wants or even the best
accommodation, only a reasonable one. (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc., supra,
74 Cal.App.4th at 228.) Employers have discretion to choose an effective
accommodation based on such things as cost and ease of providing the
accommodation. (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff’s allegations do not show that
the offer of counseling or one day off were unreasonable accommodations. 
 
            Additionally, for the reasons
discussed in the motion to strike, these allegations are time barred. 
 
            The FAC then alleges that on March
2023, Plaintiff took a medical leave from work to address her mental health. With
respect to this allegation, Plaintiff does not allege that she requested any
specific reasonable accommodation that was not given. (Gelfo v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 54 [“Two principles underlie a
cause of action for failure to provide a reasonable accommodation. First, the
employee must request an accommodation.”].)
 
            The FAC fails to state a claim for
failure to provide reasonable accommodation. The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained.
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Failure to
Engage in the Interactive Process
 
            To
state a cause of action under FEHA for failure to engage in a timely, good
faith interactive process, Plaintiff must prove: (1) she has a disability
covered by the FEHA and known to the defendant; (2) she requested that the
Defendant make a reasonable accommodation for her disability so that she would
be able to perform the essential job requirements of the job being sought; (3)
she was willing to participate in an interactive process to determine whether a
reasonable accommodation could be made so that she could perform the essential
job requirements; (4) the defendant failed to participate in a timely good
faith interactive process to determine whether reasonable accommodation could
be made. (See Gelfo v. Lockheed Martin Corp., supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at pp.
61-62.)
 
            For
the reasons discussed on the demurrer to the fourth cause of action, this cause
of action fails because Plaintiff has not alleged any reasonable accommodation that
Defendants could have provided in the interactive process. (Nadaf-Rahrov v.
Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 983 [availability of
a reasonable accommodation is necessary to a Govt. Code section 12940, subd.
(n) claim]; Scotch v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
986, 1018 [to prevail on a claim for failure to engage in the interactive
process, an employee must identify a reasonable accommodation that could have
been available].) The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained.  
 
Eighth Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
            Plaintiff
has agreed to dismiss her claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress. (Opp., 1, fn. 1.) The demurrer to this cause of action is moot.
 
Defendant Williams’s Joinder
 
            Plaintiff’s
opposition to Defendant Williams’s joinder on procedural grounds fails.
 
            As
a preliminary matter, none of the case authority cited by Plaintiff suggests
that a joinder on demurrer is improper. (See Opp., 1:15-26 [citing Decker v.
U.D. Registry, Inc. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1382 [discussing a joinder in
the context of anti-SLAPP motion]].)[2] Further, contrary
to the argument in the opposition, Defendant Williams’ joinder does seek
affirmative relief. (Joinder, pp. 2-3.) 
 
            Additionally,
while Defendant Williams did not meet and confer prior to joining Defendants’
demurrer, the Rules of Court are unclear that the statute applies under such circumstances.
Moreover, where Defendant Williams seeks only the relief sought in the demurrer
and motion to strike and the parties did properly meet and confer on these
motions, the Court finds that Defendant Williams substantially complied.  
 
            Thus,
Defendant Williams’s joinder is properly before this Court for consideration.
The demurrer is thus also granted as to the causes of action against Defendant
Williams well. 
 
Legal Standard for Motions to Strike
 
            “The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)
“Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include allegations not essential to the
claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds.
(b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants move
to strike from the FAC any allegations that occurred prior to November 1, 2021 (Paragraph
15(a)-(m)) on
the grounds that these allegations are untimely.
 
            Under FEHA,
there are effectively two limitations periods that must be satisfied. “Section
12960 provides that an employee bringing an FEHA claim must exhaust the
administrative remedy by filing an administrative complaint with the
[Department of Fair Employment and Housing (“DFEH”)] within one year after the
alleged unlawful action occurred.” (Acuna v. San Diego Gas & Elec. Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1412.) After the employee files an
administrative complaint, if the DFEH does not issue an accusation within a
specified period, it must issue a right-to-sue letter to the employee. (Id.
at 1413 [citing Gov. Code, § 12965].) The employee must bring a civil suit
within one year of the right-to-sue notice. (Id.)
 
            Filing a
new DFEH complaint does not revive expired claims. ((Acuna v. San Diego Gas
& Electric. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1417.)
 
            Here, Defendants
– relying on judicially noticeable documents – note that Plaintiff filed a
Complaint with California Civil Rights Department (CRD)[3] on
November 1, 2021. (RJN Ex. 4.) Thereafter, Plaintiff received an immediate
right-to-sue letter from the CRD on November 1, 2021. (RJN Ex. 5.) However,
Plaintiff failed to file a civil lawsuit within one year of receipt of her
right-to-sue letter. Thus, Defendants argue that any allegations within her
November 1, 2021 CRD Complaint are untimely in the present civil lawsuit.
 
            Thereafter,
Plaintiff filed another Complaint with the CRD on January 27, 2023. (Def.’s RJN
Ex. 6.) 
 
            Plaintiff,
in opposition, attempts to rely on the continuing violation doctrine. Under
this doctrine, Plaintiff argues that an employer can be held liable for actions
that take place outside the limitations period if the acts are sufficiently
linked to unlawful conduct within the limitations period. (Richards v. CH2M
Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 823.)
 
            However,
the continuing violation doctrine does not apply under all circumstances. 
 
In Richards, the California Supreme
Court held the continuing violations doctrine permitted a discrimination claim
directed to an employer's persistent failure to eliminate a hostile work environment
if the employer's unlawful actions “are (1) sufficiently similar in
kind-recognizing, as this case illustrates, that similar kinds of unlawful
employer conduct ... may take a number of different forms [citation]; (2) have
occurred with reasonable frequency; (3) and have not acquired a degree of
permanence. [Citation.]” (Richards, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 823.) That
is, for example, “when an employer engages in a continuing course of unlawful
conduct under the FEHA by refusing reasonable accommodation of a disabled
employee or engaging in disability harassment ... the statute of limitations
begins to run ... either when the course of conduct is brought to an
end, as by the employer's cessation of such conduct or by the employee's
resignation, or when the employee is on notice that further efforts to
end the unlawful conduct will be in vain.” (Richards, supra, 26
Cal.4th at 823–24.) 
 
When an employee claims unlawful
discrimination in an employer's adverse employment action, the one-year
statutory period for filing a DFEH claim accrues at the time of the discrete
adverse employment action. (See e.g., Romano v. Rockwell Int'l, Inc. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 479, 493 [one-year period accrues at the time employee is actually
terminated].) 


            Here, Plaintiff’s
application of the continuing violation doctrine is unclear from the FAC. For
example, as noted in the demurrer to the discrimination claim, the FAC is full
of various acts and incidents that appear to be “ ‘isolated employment
decisions’ ” in different circumstances made by different decision makers. (Morgan
v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 66-67.) These
acts cannot satisfy the continuing violation doctrine. 
 
Further, as noted in reply, Plaintiff
alleges five individuals engaged in inappropriate actions against her during
her employment with Defendant MTA; all the allegations involving Quincy Jackson
and Anthony Williams all occurred before November 1, 2021. (FAC ¶ 15 (a)-(l).) 


            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing that the continuing
violation doctrine applies to the allegations that occurred prior to November
1, 2021. Therefore, the motion to strike is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Demurrer is sustained as to the
first cause of action for discrimination based on race and disability, the
second cause of action for harassment based on race and disability, and the
fourth and fifth causes of action; the demurrer to the eighth cause of action
is moot based on Plaintiff’s dismissal. Based on the joinder, the demurrer is
also sustained as the causes of action alleged against Defendant Williams. The
Motion to Strike is granted. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend. An amended pleading
shall be filed and served no later than May 24, 2024. 
 
 


