  Case Number:  19STCV05943    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, October 03, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   19STCV05943
CASE NAME:                        Darryn Hammond, et al. v. Arena Football Legue, LLC, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Tennessee Arena
Football League, LLC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Robin Hammond, Sydney
Hammond, Darryl Todd Hammond, II, and Darryn Hammond
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motions for Terminating
Sanctions
OPPOSITION:                        19 September 2023
REPLY:                                  26
September 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant TAF’s motions for terminating
sanctions are denied. Defendant TAF’s motion for monetary sanctions in the
amount of $2,616.00 against Plaintiff Robin Hammon is granted and denied as to
the rest of the Plaintiffs.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
Plaintiffs Robin
Hammond, individually and as the parent of Sydney Hammond and Darryl Todd Hammond,
II, and as the successor in interest to Darryl Hammond, deceased and Darryn
Hammond (collectively “Plaintiffs”) sue Defendants Arena Football League, LLC;
Arena Football One, LLC; Tennessee Arena Football, LLC; Walt Disney Motion
Pictures Group, Inc.; Walt Disney Pictures Production, LLC; Walt Disney
Pictures; Paramount Pictures Corporation; Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.;
and Columbia Pictures Hybrid Productions, Inc. (collectively
“Defendants”).  Plaintiffs allege the late Darryl Hammond suffered from
head trauma caused by repetitive concussive head impacts while playing AFL
football games and/or practices and while filming “The Longest Yard” and
“Invincible.” 
 
On February 19,
2019, Plaintiffs commenced this action against Defendants. 
 
On June 24, 2020,
pursuant to the parties’ joint stipulation, the Court deemed Plaintiff’s Second
Amended Complaint as the operative complaint. The SAC alleges the following
causes of action: 
 
1)    
Negligence 
2)    
Negligent Misrepresentation 
3)    
Fraud 
4)    
Fraudulent Misrepresentation by
Concealment 
5)    
Fraudulent Misrepresentation by
Nondisclosure 
6)    
Wrongful Death 
7)    
Survival 
8)    
Loss of Consortium 
 
On September 15,
2020, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Walt Disney Motion Pictures Group, Inc.;
Walt Disney Pictures Production, LLC; and Walt Disney Pictures (collectively
“Disney”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Estate of Darryl
Hammond, deceased, by and through its successor in interest, Robin Hammond. On
September 10, 2021, dismissal of the cross-complaint with prejudice was entered
pursuant to Disney’s request. On August 30, 2021, Plaintiffs and Disney reached
a settlement. 
 
On September 25,
2023, a settlement was reached between Plaintiffs and d Defendants Paramount
Pictures Corp., Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc, and Columbia Pictures Hybrid
Productions, Inc. 
 
On January 31,
2022, Plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel was granted.
 
On May 3, 2023, Defendant
Tennessee Areena Football, LLC (“TAF”) filed four
separate Motions for Terminating Sanctions against
Plaintiffs Robin Hammond, Darryn Hammond, Sydney Hammond, and Darryl
T. Hammond, II. On May 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed Substitution of Attorney forms,
substituting attorney Ashley Valenzuela for Robin Hammond, Darryn Hammond, and
Sydney Hammond. 
 
The sanctions
motions came before the court on August 21, 2023.  The court continued the hearing to allow
Plaintiffs’ counsel the opportunity to comply with prior court orders and
oppose the motions. Plaintiffs filed opposing papers on September 19, 2023, and
further responses to the discovery at issue on September 20, 2023. TAF filed reply
briefs on September 26, 2023. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
CCP § 2023.030 permits the Court to impose
terminating sanctions for discovery misuses, which are defined by CCP § 2023.010
to include the failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery and the
failure to comply with a Court discovery order. The Discovery Act
defines misuse of discovery as including (1) a failure to respond or to submit
to an authorized method of discovery (CCP, § 2023.010(d)) and (2) disobedience
to a court order to provide discovery (CCP § 2023.010(g)).¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Under California law, a discovery order cannot go
further than is necessary to accomplish the purpose of discovery. (Newland
v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613.) The purpose of discovery
sanctions is to prevent abuse of the discovery process and correct the problem
presented.¿ (McGinty v. Superior Court (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 204, 210.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
In addition, an order imposing terminating
sanctions must be preceded by the disobedience of an order compelling a party
to do that which the party should have done in the first instance.¿ (Kravitz
v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1015, 1021.)¿ Accordingly, there
are grounds for terminating sanctions when a party fails to comply with
discovery and fails to comply with court orders regarding discovery.¿¿ 
 
II.        Motions for Terminating Sanctions
 
Defendant TAF brings four Motions
for terminating sanctions against Sanctions against Plaintiffs Robin
Hammond, Darryn Hammond, Sydney Hammond, and Darryl T. Hammond, II for (1)
failing to comply with the November 2, 2022 Order; (2) failing to appear at
court and obtain counsel in this matter; (3) failing to comply with the court
order compelling discovery responses; and (4) violating the court’s most recent
order to meet and confer prior to filing a case management statement. 
 
As a terminating sanction,
Defendant TAF is requesting that Plaintiffs’ SAC be dismissed as to TAF.
Defendant also seeks: (1) $2,616.00, in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
Sydney Hammon; (2) $2,776.00 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Darryl Todd
Hammond; (3) $2,488.00 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Darryn Hammond;
and (4) $5,569.00 against Plaintiff Robin Hammond. 
 
A.        Failing
to Comply with the Discovery Process and Failure to Comply with the November 2,
2022, Order
 
On
July 15, 2022, and July 18, 2022, TAF filed two Motions to Compel Plaintiffs to
provide further responses to TAF’s Special Interrogatories (“SROGS”), Set 1 and
Set 2. On November 2, 2022, the court ordered Plaintiffs to provide further
verified responses, without objection, to both sets of written discovery by
January 13, 2022. (Henning Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Defendant TAF asserts that
Plaintiffs willfully failed to comply with the court’s November 2, 2022, order.

 
Plaintiffs’
opposition argues that the Motion is moot because the Plaintiffs have now
provided verified responses to SROGS Set One and Two. Plaintiffs assert that
they provided their previous counsel with numerous original copies, but have
never gotten the original copies back, including handwritten notes and
documents from the Decedent. Plaintiffs assert that they do not currently hold
any documents that are relevant to Defendant TAF’s discovery request.
Plaintiffs assert that they have provided all the documents they could find
that were responsive to the discovery request and that Defendants failed to
present evidence that plaintiffs are in possession or in control of such
documents. 
Plaintiffs
admit that their former counsel may be in possession of responsive documents. In
responding to SROGS, Plaintiffs were required to identify the person and
location of the person who may have knowledge of any discoverable matter, “as well as of the existence,
description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any document,
electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”
(CCP, § 2017.010.) Plaintiffs ignored their discovery obligations, however, and
finally provided responses on September 30, 2023, almost a year after the
request for additional responses was made. Moreover, Plaintiffs discovery
responses remain incomplete. 
 
For example, on SROG No. 69, Plaintiffs
responded as follows: 
 
Plaintiff does not
hold in her possession any additional documents relevant to this question.
Subject to and without waiver of the foregoing objections, please see documents
Bates-labeled P-00001 through P-00005, P-00010 through P-00053, and P-00131
through P-00941, as well as all documents produced by Defendant Tennessee Arena
Football, LLC. Plaintiffs are continuing to search for potentially responsive
documents and will produce any additional responsive documents if located.
 
(Sep.
Stat. SROGS, Set 1 # 69.) Consequently, the court agrees with Defendant TAF
that Plaintiffs have not yet fully complied with the November 2, 2023, court
order as Plaintiff’s remain incomplete despite having more than a year to
comply. 
 
Plaintiffs’
objection states that Plaintiff Robin Hammond, individually and on behalf of
her three children, acted pro se and did the best she could given the fact that
she was in a different state and lacked any substantive or procedural
background, and for fifteen (15) months searched “endlessly for proper
representation, in addition to doing the best to comply with Defendant’s
requests.” (Opp. at p. 2:10-12.) In fact, three of Plaintiff Robin’s children
reached the age of majority and did not have legal counsel. Absent from the
Plaintiffs’ opposition are declarations from Robin Hammond attesting that she
was diligent in searching for an attorney and attempting to comply with
Defendant TAF’s discovery requests. 
 
            B.        Failure to Appear in Court and Obtain Counsel
 
Plaintiff
originally retained Rohnda H. Willis to represent them in this matter, but she
was relieved as counsel on January 31, 2022. Plaintiff did not obtain new
counsel until May 12, 2023. TAF asserts that until they filed the Motions for
Terminating Sanctions, Plaintiff failed to obtain new counsel, and Plaintiff
Robin Hammond, as the guardian ad litem, repeatedly refused to provide the name
of the new counsel while the other Plaintiffs failed to appear in court. 
 
Defendant
TAF asserts that this has caused delays in the action. 
 
C.        Failure
to Meet and Confer
 
Defendants
also assert that Plaintiffs failed to comply with the court rules, and failure
to comply with a court order to meet and confer before the May 4, 2023, Case
Management Conference. (Henning Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Defense
counsel asserts it tried to reach out to Plaintiff Robin Hammond, the only
contact they had, to attempt to meet and confer for the May 12, 2023, case
management conference on April 7, 2023, and April 11, 2023. (Henning Decl. ¶
9.) Defense counsel asserts that Robin Hammond willfully ignored Defendant’s
the meet and confer efforts. Furthermore, prior to filing the Motions for
Terminating Sanctions, Defense counsel attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiffs, but was again ignored. (Hemming Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
D.        Plaintiffs
Failed to Comply with Their Discovery Obligations
 
The
fact that Plaintiff Robin Hammond and her children were without representation
does not excuse her and the other Plaintiffs’ failure to comply with their
discovery obligations. “A party proceeding in
propria persona ‘is to be treated like any other party and is entitled to
the same, but no greater[,] consideration than other litigants and attorneys.’”
(Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 985.) Indeed, “‘the in
propria persona litigant is held to the same restrictive rules of procedure
as an attorney.’” [Citation.]” (First American Title Co. v. Mirzaian
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 956, 958, fn. 1; see also Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122
Cal.App.4th 1229, 1246-1247.)
 
As the Plaintiffs’ supplemental responses to SROGS Set 1 and 2
remain incomplete, the court agrees that sanctions are warranted. However, the
court finds is not persuaded that there are no other alternatives than to
dismiss Plaintiffs’ actions. 
 
Dismissal
is a proper sanction to punish the failure to comply with a rule or an order
only if the court's authority cannot be vindicated through the imposition of a
less severe alternative. For instance, when the rule or order violated concerns
discovery, the trial court may impose sanctions that ‘are suitable and
necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of
the discovery he [or she] seeks but the court may not impose sanctions
which are designed not to accomplish the objects of the discovery but to
impose punishment.’ [Citation.]  In other words, discovery sanctions
exist ‘not to provide a weapon for punishment for past violations or penalty
for past conduct but to secure compliance with orders of the court.’
[Citation].  
¿ 
(Electronic Funds Solutions, LLC v. Murphy (2005) 134
Cal.App.4th 1161, 1183 [italics original] [internal citation and quotation
marks omitted].) 
 
In Wilson v. Jefferson (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 952, the appellate
court overturned the trial court’s decision to strike the defendant’s answer
and enter default against the defendant for failing to comply with an order to
produce documents. (Id. at p. 958.) The appellate court reasoned
that:  
 
‘The
penalty should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that
which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery [so that a] sanction should not operate in such a fashion as to put
the prevailing party in a better position than he would have had if he had
obtained the discovery sought and it had been completely favorable to his
cause.’
 
(Id.)  
 
To dismiss Plaintiffs’ action would place
Defendant TAF in a better position than it would have had if the discovery
sought been obtained. Defendant TAF also fails to explain how the proposed
terminating sanctions are tailored to Plaintiff’s discovery abuse. The court
denies the Defendant’s request Plaintiffs’ SAC against TAF be dismissed in its
entirety. 
 
As to the Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions, the court
finds that because the minor Plaintiffs were without an attorney, it would be
unfair to impose monetary sanctions against them. 
 
However, the court finds that sanctions are warranted against
Plaintiff Robin Hammond in the amount of $2,616.00 for her willful failure to
comply with the November 2, 2022, order, failure to obtain counsel in a timely
manner, failure to comply with a court order compelling discovery, and
violating the court’s most recent order to
meet and confer prior to filing a case management statement.
 
Lastly, the court denies Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions. 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant TAF’s request for
terminating sanctions is denied. Defendant TAF’s request for monetary sanctions
in the amount of $2,616.00 against
Plaintiff Robin Hammond is granted and denied as to the rest of the Plaintiffs.
 
 
Dated: October __, 2023                                _______________________________
                                                                        Gail
Killefer
                                                                        Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 
 
 