 Case Number:  22STCV20904    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, October 10, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV20904
CASE NAME:                        Danny Silberstein v. MM Products, Inc., et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant MM Products, Inc. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Danny Silberstien  
TRIAL DATE:                         3/19/24
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages
OPPOSITION:                        19 September 2023
REPLY:                                  26
September 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On
June 27, 2022, Danny Silberstein (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint against MM
Products, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50. 
 
On
July 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging a single cause of action for strict product liability. 
 
On
July 25, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s FAC. Plaintiff
filed opposing papers on September 19, 2023. Defendant filed a reply on
September 26, 2023. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections  
 
Plaintiff
objects to the Declaration of Bob Mizimakoski filed in support of Defendant’s
motion to strike on the basis that Mr. Mizimakoski testified to matters about which
he failed to indicate he had experience or personal knowledge. 
 
Plaintiff’s objection to Paragraph
2, lines 1:26-2-3 is sustained. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1);
CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its
discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Where
the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of
cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a
chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of
San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Motion to Strike[1]
 
A.        Plaintiff’s
Opposition is Untimely
 
CCP
§ 1005(b) requires that opposing papers be served and filed at least nine court
days before the hearing. Plaintiff’s opposing papers were due on Friday,
September 15, 2023, but Plaintiff did not file and serve his opposition to this
Motion until Tuesday, September 19, 2023. 
 
Although
Plaintiff’s motion is untimely, Defendant has failed to state that it was
prejudiced by the delay and the court has the discretion to consider
Plaintiff’s untimely opposition. (CRC,
rule 3.1300 [the court may entertain untimely opposition “in its discretion”]; see Tate v. Superior Court (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 925,
930 [The court may treat the appearance of Defense counsel at the hearing and
her opposition to the motion on its merits as a waiver of defective notice of
the motion.].)
 
 
 
            B.        Defendant’s Request for Strike Punitive
Damages 
 
Defendant
moves to strike Plaintiff’s allegation for punitive damages in the FAC at Page
7, Paragraph 24 and at Page 9, Paragraph 7. Defendant asserts that the FAC
fails to plead sufficient facts to support a cause of action for punitive
damages. 
 
CCP
§ 3294 allows for recovery of punitive damages if, by clear and convincing
evidence, Plaintiff proves “defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.” Section 3294(c) provides the following definitions:  
 
(1)¿“Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.¿ 
 
(2)¿“Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.¿ 
 
(3)¿“Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.¿ 
 
Upon
motion, the court shall strike an allegation of punitive damages unless the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement of such relief have been pled by a
plaintiff. (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) To survive a
motion to strike, claims for punitive damages must provide facts showing the
defendant acted maliciously, with the intention or willful and conscious
disregard of her likelihood to cause harm. (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983)
148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.) Mere allegations concluding, for example, that
defendant’s conduct was intentional, willful, or fraudulent are insufficient. (Smith
v. Superior Court (1993) 10 Cal.App.4th, 1033, 1041-1042.) Specific facts
must be alleged in the pleadings supporting these contentions of law. (Id.) 
 
                        i.          Summary of Allegations in FAC
 
Here, the FAC alleges Defendant manufactured a
JoyJolt Declan Glass 16 oz. Coffee Mug (the “Product”) with sodalime glass,
which was safe to use for cold beverages, not hot beverages like coffee and
tea. (FAC ¶¶ 6-8.) The FAC alleges that sodalime glass is unable to withstand
thermal shock associated with temperature changes in going from hot to cold
liquid. (FAC ¶ 8.) Despite putting a warning on Amazon, Defendant did not do
the same on its JoyJolt website stating: “to wait 3 minutes before going from
hot to cold in the mug” and no warning was provided in the box shipped with
mugs, such that consumers who received the Product as a gift, such as
Plaintiff, had no warning. (FAC ¶ 8.)
 
The
FAC alleges that during the time the Product was manufactured from 2020 to
2021, Defendant received 400 notifications from consumers about the Product’s
failure, “including over 350 complaints that the base of the mugs was failing
allowing hot liquids to spill on to the users or otherwise causing injury.”
(FAC ¶ 9.) The FAC alleges that Defendants investigated and discovered that
reason for the Product’s failure was the sodalime glass, but nonetheless,
Defendants continued to sell the product despite knowing it was unsafe and
dangerous. (FAC ¶ 9.) In fact, Defendant developed “a newly designed mug that
was made with borosilicate glass” that was “able to withstand the internal
stresses associated with hot liquid.” (FAC ¶ 9.) “However, the original designed
mug was continued to be sold without any warning of the danger the bottoms
would separate from the mug.” (FAC ¶ 9.)
 
The
FAC alleges that Defendant’s Chief Executive Officer Mordechai Mittelman, knew
that the Product was failing and causing or potentially cause “serious burn or
laceration injuries,” but he and other corporate executives made the conscious
decision to not notify consumers of the defective Product and not issue a
recall or warning, putting profit over safety. (FAC ¶¶ 10, 11.) Defendant’s
CEO, Mordechai Mittelman, consciously refused not to notify the “Consumer
Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) about the danger, hazard, and unsafe defect
of the product because they did now want to expose themselves to a potential
recall “which would reduce defendant’s bottom line profits.” (FAC ¶ 12.) 
 
The
FAC further alleges that Defendant knew or should have known that sodalime
glass is not a proper material to use with coffee mugs and a conscious decision
to not provide a warning to consumers. (FAC ¶ 13.) Defendant also acted with
conscious disregard of public safety by advertising the product as safe for use
with hot liquids despite the Product being unsafe for its intended use. (FAC ¶
15.) This was done because sodalime glass is cheaper than borosilicate glass
and Defendant failed and refused to provide safe and proper instruction
regarding the proper use and hazards associated with the Product. (FAC ¶ 16.)
Said conduct was authorized and/or ratified by e corporate defendant’s
management, including its CEO Mordechai Mittelman. (FAC ¶ 17.) 
 
Based
on the allegations in the FAC, the court finds that Plaintiff has pled
sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages. 
 
            D.        Defendant’s Motion relies on Matters Outside of the Pleadings
 
“The grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (CCP, §
437.) Defendant refers and relies on matters outside of the pleadings,
including portions of the deposition transcript of Mordechai Mittelman and the
Declaration of Bob Mizimakoski, to challenge Plaintiff’s entitlement to
punitive damages.  Defendant asks the
court to deny Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages based on the fact that Mr.
Mittleman did not testify that sodalime glass is unsafe for hot beverages and
Plaintiff has not proven that sodalime glass is unsafe. (Mot. at p. 4: 19-28.)
Defendant further asserts that Plaintiff has not proven that a recall was
warranted. (Mot. at p. 5:18-22; see e.g., Mizmakoski Decl.)
 
At the pleading stage,
Plaintiff is not required to prove his claims but instead required to plead
facts sufficient “to put the defendant on notice about what the plaintiff is
complaining and what remedies are being sought.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011)
194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) The sufficiency of the Plaintiff’s evidence is
tested on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication after discovery
is complete, and not during a motion for strike. (See Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162–163 [“Thus, where the parties have had
sufficient opportunity adequately to develop their factual cases through
discovery and the defendant has made a sufficient showing to establish a prima
facie case in his or her favor, in order to avert summary judgment
the plaintiff must produce substantial responsive evidence sufficient to
establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the defendant's
showing.”].)
 
Defendant has failed
to show that a defect in the pleading exists on the face of the FAC. Moreover,
the court finds that Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is sufficiently
pled. Therefore, the Defendant’s Motion is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is
denied.
 
Dated: October __, 2023                                            _______________________________
                                                                                    Gail
Killefer
                                                                                    Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 
 
 


