  Case Number:  23STCV08305    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  73 11/26/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KENT TRAN v. UTOMO TANI, et al. (23STCV08305)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants/moving
party:  Sally Chan (West Themis Law, PC)
Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainant/
opposing party: T. Randolph Catanese (Catanese and Wells)
 
PLAINTIFF KENT TRAN’S MOTION FOR TRIAL
PREFERENCE (filed 10/02/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Setting Preference is
DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kent Tran
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendants Utomi Tani aka Jimmy Tani
(“Jimmy”); Yong Sook Kim; Jimmy Tani, Jr.; Lan Sam; Goodland Global Farm Inc.;
JT and KT Development LLC; Maie JT & KT Development LLC; True Garlic, Inc.;
Goodland Global Mining, Inc.; and nominal Defendant Golden Partner Global
Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (“collectively Defendants”). 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: 
1)     
Intentional misrepresentation/fraud 
2)     
Conversion/embezzlement
3)     
Declaratory relief
4)     
Partition by sale
5)     
Violation of Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15600 et seq – Financial Elder Abuse
6)     
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress
7)     
Breach
of fiduciary duty
8)     
Conspiracy
9)     
Fraudulent
transfer/constructive fraud
10)  Negligent misrepresentation/fraud
11)  Fraud by concealment 
12)  Breach of written contract
13)  Breach of oral contract
14)  Inspection of records 
15)  Accounting
16)  Unjust enrichment
17)  Involuntary dissolution of
corporations
18)  Fraudulent transfer
19)  CA Penal Code Section § 496(A)
20) 
Cancellation
of instrument pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
The Complaint alleges
the following. In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed several companies,
including Goodland Global Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), JT and KT Development LLC, and Maie JT and KT Development LLC. Plaintiff and Jimmy had
agreed to own the companies equally as partners. Plaintiff and Jimmy also
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei
Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in fraud and
falsely misrepresented to Plaintiff, among other things, that Plaintiff owned 50% of the
Companies when he actually did not, that the Companies were in need of loans
and not profitable in order to induce Plaintiff to obtain personal loans, for
Plaintiff to sign documents that were related to taking out loans in 2021, and
that Plaintiff needed to vacate and sell his home to save the Companies. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants (“Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and
Wai Hung Szeto (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).
 
Cross-Complainants filed a First
Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1)     
Equitable Indemnity and Contribution
2)     
Indemnity
3)     
Declaratory relief
 
Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendants and Plaintiff are shareholders of NBC Seafood Restaurant. The FACC
alleges that that any
liability held against them pertaining to Plaintiff’s allegations, is due to
the negligence, carelessness, acts, or omissions of Cross-Defendants. Cross-Complainants
are seeking indemnification and contribution for any loss suffered and damages
awarded to Plaintiff. Cross-Complainants also seek a declaration that Jimmy has
not violated the Bylaws of Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc., and that his
actions or omissions were ratified and consented to by Cross-Defendants.
 
On October 10, 2024, the Court granted Defendants and Cross-Complainants'
Motion to Continue the Trial and Related Deadlines. The Court continued the
trial date to May 5, 2025. 
 
On October 2,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Trial Setting Preference, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs
are requesting the Court set this action for trial within 120 days on the
following grounds: (1) Plaintiff is over the age of 70; (2) Plaintiff has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole; and (3) Plaintiff’s health is
such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing his interest in the
litigation. 
·      
Plaintiff filed a declaration in support.
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants' filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff has failed to establish his health requires an early
setting of trial 
·      
Other than general averments of a "major health
condition" Plaintiff never specifies what the condition is, why the
condition requires an earlier date for trial and why he is at high risk should
the trial proceed on the date now scheduled in the case
·      
Moreover, Plaintiff’s declaration is improper and not in
conformity with the rules related to declarations in that it contains what
appears to be a foreign language which is never identified by Plaintiff in the
declaration
 
Plaintiff filed a reply, maintaining that the facts entitle Plaintiff
to trial preference under CCP § 36(a).
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Legal
Standard 
 
CCP section
36(a) states that a preferential trial date is mandatory where the party is
over 70 years old; the party has a substantial interest in the action; and the
health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest.  (See Code Civ. Proc. sec. 36(a).) 
 
CCP section
36(c)(1) requires a motion for mandatory trial preference under CCP section
36(a) must be supported by a declaration that all essential parties have been
served with process or have appeared. (CCP § 36(c)(1); Weil & Brown, Civ.
Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2019) ¶12:273.) 
 
CCP section
36.5 provides that “[a]n affidavit submitted in support of a motion for
preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney
for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.  The affidavit is not admissible
for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of
Section 36.  
 
CCP section
36(e) states that, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the court may
in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing
that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by
granting this preference.”  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 36(e).)  
 

B.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to set this action for trial within 120
days on the following grounds:
(1)
Plaintiff is over the age of 70; (2) Plaintiff has a substantial interest in
the action as a whole; and (3) Plaintiff’s health is such that a preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing his interest in the litigation. 
 
First,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to support his motion with a
declaration that all essential parties have been served with process or have
appeared as required by CCP §
36(c)(1). Further, Plaintiff’s declaration submitted in support of his motion does
not conform with California Code of Civil Procedure Section 185 because it appears to include a foreign language. CCP § 185 provides
that “every written proceeding in a court of justice in this state shall
be in the English language, and judicial proceedings shall be conducted,
preserved and published in no other." The Court finds
that due to these procedural deficiencies, Plaintiff has not complied with CCP
§ 36(c)(1).
 
In addition
to these procedural deficiencies, the Court finds that while Plaintiff is over 70
years old and has a substantial interest in this action as a whole, Plaintiff
has not shown that his health is such that a preference is necessary to avoid
prejudicing his interest in the litigation. Plaintiff’s declaration states that
he is 71 years old and has a “major health condition.” (Tran Decl., ¶ 2.)
However, this statement does not state Plaintiff’s prognosis or give any
indication as to the possible duration of Plaintiff’s lifespan. Plaintiff’s
conclusory statements that at his age, he does not know if he will be in good
health or alive at the time of trial, is not sufficient to warrant a trial
preference under CCP § 36(a). (Tran
Decl., ¶ 3.) For example, the present facts are readily
distinguishable from those in Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529, where trial preference should have been granted to an
81-year-old with (1) stage IV mesothelioma which had metastasized to the femur,
clavicle, and spine, (2) asbestosis, (3) asbestos-related pleural disease, (4)
severe coronary artery disease, (5) anemia, (6) whole body aches and pain, (7)
severe abdominal and bowel complications, (8) nausea and vomiting, (9)
dehydration, (10) drowsiness, (11) extreme weakness and fatigue, (12)
chemotherapy-induced impairment to focus, concentration, and communication,
(13) an extremely weak immune system, and (14) worsening side effects of the
chemotherapy. (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 532.) Thus, Plaintiff
fails to meet his burden under CCP § 36(a) to show that Plaintiff’s health is
such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in this
action. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Setting Preference is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Trial Setting Preference is DENIED.