 Case Number:  24STCV09059    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  73 11/26/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
ONJ INVESTMENTS, LLC, et al. v. KAUR,
et al. (24STCV09059)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants/moving party: 
Kenneth Chung (Kring & Chung LLP) 
Counsel for
Defendants/Cross-Complainants/opposing party: 
Jay Chung (Lee Anav Chung White Kim Ruger & Richter LLP)
 
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE CROSS-complaint
(filed 8/26/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted and denied in part. 
 
The
Court DENIES Cross-Defendants’ request to strike Paragraph 120 of the
Cross-Complaint for punitive damages and Paragraphs 12 and 16-19 of the Cross-Complaint relating to alter ego
allegations. 
 
The Court
GRANTS the rest of Cross-Defendants’ motion to
strike with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiffs ONJ Investments, LLC (“ONJI”); James
McGee (“McGee”) and Osvaldo Santa Ana (“Santa Ana”) filed this action against
Defendants Manjeet Kaur (“Manjeet”); Jaspreet Kaur (“Jaspreet”); Ralph Santos
and Healthcare Biz Brokers. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 
1.     
Specific Performance
2.     
Mandatory Injunction
3.     
Rescission of Stock Purchase Agreement
4.     
Rescission of Note
5.     
Breach of Stock Purchase Agreement
6.     
Breach of Amendment to Promissory Note and Personal Guaranty
7.     
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing
8.     
Fraud – Concealment
9.     
Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
10.  Fraud –
Negligent Misrepresentation
11.  Unjust
Enrichment
12.  Violation of
Business & Professions Code Section 17500 (False Advertising)
13.  Violation of
Business & Professions Code Section 17200 et seq. (Unfair Competition)
14.  Express
Indemnity
15.  Implied
Indemnity
16.  Negligence
17.  Declaratory
Relief
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff ONJI purchased all
outstanding shares of common stock in Heralds Home Health Care (the
“Corporation”) from Defendants Manjeet and Jaspreet. On or about February 24,
2021, Defendants Manjeet and Jaspreet entered into a written Stock Purchase
Agreement, dated February 24, 2021 and Addendum to Stock Purchase Agreement,
dated April 12, 2021 (collectively, the “SPA”) wherein they agreed to sell
their shares of common stock in the Corporation to Plaintiff ONJI. Plaintiffs
allege that they thereafter discovered Defendants had materially misrepresented
the number of patients, income, profits, and other benefits advertised. This
discovery of information led to the failure of the sale and Plaintiffs demanded
that Manjeet and Jaspreet perform their
obligations under the SPA by preparing and submitting the Change of Ownership
form. However, Plaintiffs allege that Manjeet and Jaspreet have failed and
refused to perform their obligations to submit the Change of Ownership form.
 
On June 21, 2024, Defendant and Cross-Complainant Manjeet Kaur
filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Jaspreet Kaur; Sajanpreet
Singh; Heralds Hospice Care; ONJ Investments, LLC; James McGee; Osvaldo Santa
Ana; Ralph Santos and Healthcare Biz Brokers. 
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges the following causes of action:
1.     
Breach of Contract (Nonpayment of Note)
2.     
Breach of Guarantee
3.     
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
4.     
Breach of Contract (NPI)
5.     
Fraud (Concealment re NPI)
6.     
Inducing Breach of Contract
7.     
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
8.     
Fraud (Misrepresentation and Concealment re ERTC)
9.     
Breach of Addendum to Spa
10.  Conversion
11.  Unjust
Enrichment
12.  Judicial
Foreclosure 
13.  Declaratory
Relief (Note) 
14.  Declaratory
Relief (ERTC) 
15.  Declaratory
Relief (NPI) 
16.  Unfair
Competition (Section 17200)
17.  Implied
Indemnity
18.  Negligence
19.  Reformation
of Contract
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants conspired with
each other to convert, steal, misappropriate and use all shares in the
Corporation and other assets. Manjeet alleges that McGee and Santa Ana breached
a Promissory Note executed between the parties by failing to make payments due
under the note. Manjeet also alleges that Jaspreet forged her signature on an
Amendment to Promissory Note.
 
On August 26, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed the instant motion to
strike, arguing:
·       Cross-Complainant
fails to allege any specific facts to support any claim for punitive or
exemplary damages or alter ego claims as a matter of law. Moreover, this Motion
is made on the grounds that the portions and damages sought to be stricken are
irrelevant
·       Alter ego
liability
o  
All allegations of alter ego specifically those pled in ¶¶ 12,
16-19, regarding the ONJI Cross-Defendants must be stricken because they are
irrelevant, improper, and conclusionary and fail to plead facts to establish
any of the factors Courts consider when finding alter ego liability.
·       Punitive
Damages
o  
Cross-Complainant Fails Entirely to Plead Facts Establishing
Fraud, Oppression, Or Malice as Mandated Under Civil Code § 3294
o  
The Recovery of Punitive Damages for Unfair Competition Fail As a
Matter of Law
·       Declaratory
Relief
o  
Cross-Complainant improperly seeks a Judicial Determination and/or
Declaration from the Court against the ONJI Cross-Defendants in her Prayer for
Relief Paragraphs 1(a), 2(a), 3(a), 8(a), 10(a),
11(a), 12(a), 16(a), and 19(a) , in relation to her first, second, third,
eighth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and nineteenth causes of action,
none of which are Declaratory Relief Causes of Action, and only the First and
Second causes of action relate to a contract.
·       Costs of Suit
incurred and attorneys fees 
o  
Cross-Complainant repeatedly and improperly requests costs of suit
incurred in relation to causes of action in which are unavailable by law
o  
Prayers for Relief 2(c) and 2(d) in relation to the Second Cause
of Action for Breach of Guarantee requesting costs of suit incurred should be
stricken as there is no attorneys’ fees and costs provision contained in the
Guarantee
·       Benefit of
the bargain damages
o  
Cross-Complainant improperly seeks “Benefit of the Bargain”
Damages in ¶ 8(b) of her Prayer for Relief for her Eighth Cause of Action for
Fraud against the ONJI Defendants that must be stricken as these damages are
not available to parties that are not in a fiduciary relationship.
·       Benefit of
the bargain, compensatory and special damages are not recoverable for UCL
·       Constructive
trust must be stricken as it is an independent cause of action, not a remedy
·       Judicial
Foreclosure
o  
Prayer for Relief 12(b) must be stricken in its entirety on the
grounds that the allegations pled by Cross-Complaint in support of
Cross-Complainant’s Twelfth Cause of Action for Judicial Foreclosure do not
state facts sufficient to support claim that Cross-Complainant is entitled to a
“foreclosure to be set” as there is not real property at issue, rather it is
issuance of Stock.
 
Cross-Complainants filed an opposition, arguing:
·       The Motion Is
Untimely—the Deadline Was August 5, 2024, the Motion Was Filed on August 26,
2024
·       Entity
Cross-defendant and Individual Cross-defendants Are Alter Egos
o  
e Cross-complaint contains ample allegations of ultimate facts for
alter ego, including their use of ONJI as a mere shell, instrumentality, and
conduit through which they entered into the Stock Purchase Agreement.
·       No
Allegations Seeking Punitive Damages Should Be Stricken As the Cross-complaint
Sufficiently Pleads Conduct for “Malice,” “Oppression,” and “Fraud”
·       Cross-Defendants
Provide No Authority for Their Proposition That Declaratory Relief Cannot be
Requested
·       Cross-complaint
Relies on the NOTE and Code Civ. Proc. § 1033 to Support Its Request for Relief
for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs
·       Civil Code §
3343(a)(3) Provides for Damages outside of Out-of-Pocket Damages.
·       Miscellaneous
Arguments to Strike Out Portions of the Cross-Compliant Are Not Supported by
Authority
 
Cross-Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·       Motion is timely
o  
Counsel for ONJI properly filed CIV-141 Declaration of Demurring
or Moving Pary in Support of Automatic 30-day Extension on July 25, 2024. This
provided ONJI 30 additional days to file their responsive pleading which they
timely did when they filed their Motion to Strike.
·       Cross-Complainant’s
Alter Ego Allegations Can and Should be Stricken 
·       Cross-Complainant’s
Punitive Damages Requests Fail For Multiple Reasons
o  
Not Properly Pled
o  
Punitive Damages Are Not Legally Available For UCL Claims
·       Remedies for
Unfair Competition are Limited to Restitution and Injunctive Relief Only
·       Cross-Complainant
Is Not Entitled to Declaratory Relief As Pled 
o  
Declaratory Relief As Additional Relief for Other Causes of Action
is Improper and Must be Stricken
o  
A Declaratory Relief Cause of Action Does Not Permit Additional
Remedies
·       ONJI
Cross-Defendants Seek to Strike Improper Attorneys’ Fees and Costs for all
Contracts, EXCLUDING the Note, Without Attorneys’ Fees Provisions and When
Unavailable Under the Law
·       Cross-Defendant
is Not Entitled to Benefit of the Bargain Damages
·       Other Damages
Requested To Be Stricken
o  
Court Should Strike Erroneous Allegation of Oral Contract 
o  
Constructive Trust Is Not Proper Relief.
o  
Judicial Foreclosure Not Available as There is No Real Property At
Issue 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal
Standard
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
 
B.     
Timeliness
 
First,
Cross-Complainants argue that Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike is untimely. 
 
Cross-Complainants
assert that the Cross-Complaint
was served on June 20, 2024 and ultimately filed on June 21, 2024. (Xu Decl. ¶
6.) Thus, they contend that Cross-Defendants’
responsive pleading deadline was initially on July 22, 2024. Cross-Complainants
assert that after granting Cross-Defendants
an extension to respond, the responsive pleading deadline was August 5, 2024.
(Xu Decl. ¶ 5.) However,
the Motion to Strike was filed on August 26, 2024.
 
In
response, Cross-Defendants contend that the Motion is timely because they properly
filed a Declaration
of Demurring or Moving Party in Support of Automatic 30-day Extension on July
25, 2024. 
 
Since
Cross-Defendants had filed for a 30-day extension, the Motion to Strike deadline
was August 26, 2024. Thus, the Court finds the Motion to Strike is timely. 
 
C.     
Discussion
 
Cross-Defendants request the Court to
strike portions of the Cross-Complaint as follows:
1.     
Paragraph
12 in its entirety on the grounds that the allegations therein do not state
facts sufficient to support claim of all Cross-Defendants are alter egos of
each other; 
2.     
Paragraph
16 in its entirety on the grounds that the allegations therein do not state
facts sufficient to support claim that Cross-Defendants ONJI, McGee, and Santa
Ana are alter egos of each other; 
3.     
Paragraph
17 in its entirety on the grounds that the allegations therein do not state
facts sufficient to support claim that Cross-Defendants ONJI, McGee, and Santa
Ana are alter egos of each other; 
4.     
Paragraph
18 in its entirety on the grounds that the allegations therein do not state
facts sufficient to support claim that Cross-Defendants ONJI, McGee, and Santa
Ana are alter egos of each other; 
5.     
Paragraph
19 in its entirety on the grounds that the allegations therein do not state
facts sufficient to support claim that Cross-Defendants ONJI, McGee, and Santa
Ana are alter egos of each other; 
6.     
Paragraph
120 in its entirety on the grounds that the allegations therein do not state
facts sufficient to support claim for punitive damages against Cross-Defendants
ONJI, McGee, and Santa Ana;
7.     
Paragraph
174 in its entirety on the grounds that the allegations therein do not state
facts sufficient to support claim for punitive damages nor is a claim for
punitive damages for the Unfair Competition Cause of Action drawn in conformity
with the law; 
8.     
Prayer
for Relief number 1(a) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is
not entitled to Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a
Declaratory Relief Cause of Action specifying this requested Determination; 
9.     
Prayer
for Relief number 1(b) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is
not entitled to Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a
Declaratory Relief Cause of Action requesting this Determination; 
10.  Prayer for Relief number 2(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this Determination; 
11.  Prayer for Relief number 2(c) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to costs of suit
incurred as there is no such provision in the Guarantee (attached as Exhibit 4
to Cross-Complaint); 
12.  Prayer for Relief number 2(d) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to attorneys’
fees and costs under Civil Code § 1717 as there is no such attorneys’ fees
provision in the Guarantee (attached as Exhibit 4 to Cross-Complaint); 
13.  Prayer for Relief number 3(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this specific Determination; 
14.  Prayer for Relief number 3(c) in its
entirety on the grounds that costs of suit incurred are not recoverable for
Cross-Complainant’s Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing cause of
action; 
15.  Prayer for Relief number 3(d) in its
entirety on the grounds that attorneys’ fees and costs are not recoverable for
Cross-Complainant’s Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing cause of
action;
16.  Prayer for Relief number 8(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this Determination; 
17.  Prayer for Relief number 8(b) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled for “Benefit of
the Bargain” damages for Cross-Complainant’s Eighth Cause of Action for Fraud
against Cross-Defendants McGee and Santa Ana as they were not in a fiduciary
relationship; 
18.  Prayer for Relief number 8(d) in its
entirety on the grounds the allegations pled against Cross-Defendants McGee and
Santa Ana do not entitle Cross-Complainant to exemplary and/or punitive
damages; 
19.  Prayer for Relief number 8(c) [sic]
(should be 8(e)) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not
entitled to costs of suit incurred per law for Cross-Complainant’s Eighth Cause
of Action for Fraud; 
20.  Prayer for Relief number 8(d) [sic]
(should be 8(f)) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant, under
the relevant law, is not entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs for
Cross-Complainant’s Eighth Cause of Action for Fraud; 
21.  Prayer for Relief number 9(b) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to “Damages for
breach of oral contract” from the ONJI Cross-Defendants for Cross-Complainant’s
Ninth Cause of Action for Breach of Addendum of Spa (attached as Exhibit 2 to
the Cross-Complaint) as there are no allegations of an oral contract or its
terms pled by Cross-Complainant and further a breach of an oral contract is
barred by the Statute of Limitations; 
22.  Prayer for Relief number 9(c) on the
grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to costs of suit incurred as
there is no provision in the Addendum to the SPA (attached as Exhibit 2 to
Cross-Complaint), rather clause 8 on Page 17 of the Addendum to the SPA
specifically provides that the “Parties agree to pay their own costs and
expenses in connection with this Agreement”; 
23.  Prayer for Relief number 9(d) on the
grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs
under Civil Code § 1717 as there is no such provision in the Addendum to the
SPA (attached as Exhibit 2 to Cross-Complaint), and moreover clause 8 on Page
17 of the Addendum to the
SPA specifically provides that the “Parties agree to pay their own costs and
expenses in connection with this Agreement”;
24.  Prayer for Relief number 10(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this Determination; 
25.  Prayer for Relief number 10(b) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot seek relief for a
constructive trust for Cross-Complainant’s Tenth Cause of Action for Conversion
as a Constructive Trust is an independent cause of action; 
26.  Prayer for Relief number 10(c) [sic]
(should be 10(d)) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot
seek relief from the ONJI Cross-Defendants for costs of suit incurred for
Cross-Complainant’s Tenth Cause of Action for Conversion; 
27.  Prayer for Relief number 10(d) [sic]
(should be 10(e)) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot
obtain relief from the ONJI Cross-Defendants for attorneys’ fees and costs for
Cross-Complainant’s Tenth Cause of Action for Conversion; 
28.  Prayer for Relief number 11(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this specific Determination; 
29.  Prayer for Relief number 11(c) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to seek relief
from the ONJI Cross-Defendants for costs of suit incurred for Cross-Complainant’s
Eleventh Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment; 
30.  Prayer for Relief number 11(d) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot recover attorneys’ fees
and costs from the ONJI Cross-Defendants for Cross-Complainant’s Eleventh Cause
of Action for Unjust Enrichment; 
31.  Prayer for Relief number 12(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this specific Determination; 
32.  Prayer for Relief number 12(b) in its
entirety on the grounds that the allegations pled by Cross-Complaint in support
of Cross-Complainant’s Twelfth Cause of Action for Judicial Foreclosure do not
state facts sufficient to support claim that Cross-Complainant is entitled to a
“foreclosure to be set” as there is not real property at issue; 
33.  Prayer for Relief 13(b) in its
entirety on the basis that that Cross-Complainant is not legally entitled to a
Constructive Trust for the Thirteenth Cause of Action from the ONJI Cross-Defendants
for Declaratory Relief Regarding the Note as Constructive Trust is a separate
cause of action, not a remedy; 
34.  Prayer for Relief 14(b) in its
entirety on the basis that that Cross-Complainant is not legally entitled to a
Constructive Trust for the Thirteenth Cause of Action from the ONJI Cross-Defendants
for Declaratory Relief Regarding “ERTC” as Constructive Trust is a separate
cause of action, not a remedy;
35.  Prayer for Relief 16(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to this
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this specific Determination; 
36.  Prayer for Relief 16(b) in its
entirety based on the fact that Cross-Complainant cannot legally recover
“Benefit of the Bargain” damages against the ONJI Cross-Defendants for
Cross-Complainant’s Sixteenth Cause of Action for Unfair Competition as
remedies for this cause of action are limited to restitution and injunctive
relief only; 
37.  Prayer for Relief 16(c) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot legally recover
“compensatory and special damages” against the ONJI Cross-Defendants for Cross-Complainant’s
Sixteenth Cause of Action for Unfair Competition as remedies for this cause of
action are expressly limited to restitution and injunctive relief only; 
38.  Prayer for Relief 16(d) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot legally recover
“exemplary and/or punitive damages” against the ONJI Cross-Defendants for
Cross-Complainant’s Sixteenth Cause of Action for Unfair Competition as exemplary
and/or punitive damages are expressly prohibited under the relevant statute and
case law; 
39.  Prayer for Relief 16(c) [sic] (should
be 16(d)) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot legally
recover “for costs of suit incurred” against the ONJI Cross- Defendants
for Cross-Complainant’s Sixteenth Cause of Action for Unfair Competition as
remedies for this cause of action are expressly limited to restitution and
injunctive relief only; 
40.  Prayer for Relief 16(d) [sic] (should
be 16(e)) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot legally
recover “attorneys’ fees and costs” against the ONJI Cross-Defendants for
Cross-Complainant’s Sixteenth Cause of Action for Unfair Competition as
remedies for this cause of action are expressly limited to restitution and
injunctive relief only; 
41.  Prayer for Relief 19(a) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to this
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this specific Determination; 
42.  Prayer for Relief 19(b) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to this
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this specific Determination; 
43.  Prayer for Relief 19(c) in its
entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to this
Declaration/Determination from the Court without pleading a Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action requesting this specific Determination; 
44.  Prayer for Relief 19(c) [sic] (should
be 19(d)) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant cannot legally
recover “for costs of suit incurred” against the ONJI Cross-Defendants for
Cross-Complainant’s Nineteenth Cause of Action for Reformation of Contract as
Reformation itself is a remedy, not a separate cause of action; and
45. 
Prayer
for Relief 19(d) [sic] (should be 19(e)) in its entirety on the grounds that
Cross-Complainant cannot legally recover “attorneys’ fees and costs” against
the ONJI Cross-Defendants for Cross-Complainant’s Nineteenth Cause of Action
for Reformation of Contract as Reformation itself is a remedy, not a separate
cause of action.
 
a.      
Alter Ego
allegations
 
Cross-Defendants
argue that all allegations of alter ego, specifically those pled in ¶¶ 12,
16-19, regarding the ONJI Cross-Defendants must be stricken because they are
irrelevant, improper, and conclusionary and fail to plead facts to establish
alter ego liability.
 
The
Cross-Complaint alleges that “Cross-Defendants and each of them, were the
agents or employees of each of their co-Cross Defendants, and in doing the
things mentioned or in failing to act as mentioned herein, were acting as such
agents and employees with the permission, consent, and/or ratification of the
co-Cross-defendants.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 12.) The Cross-Complaint further
alleges, among other things, that “there existed a unity of interest and
ownership between ONJI, on the one hand, and MCGEE and SANTA ANA, on the other
hand, that any individuality or separateness have ceased”, that ONJI “was, a
mere shell, instrumentality, and conduit through which MCGEE and SANTA ANA
carried on business in the name of ONJI, its business and assets”, that “ONJI
is, and at all times herein mentioned was, so inadequately capitalized that its
capitalizations were illusory and trifling”, and that “these Cross-Defendants
were commingling assets in a manner that allowed them to utilize and freely
transfer those assets amongst themselves.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 16-19.)
 
The
Court finds these allegations sufficient to establish an alter ego relationship
between ONJI, McGee and Santa Ana. In Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del
Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the court
stated, there is
not a heightened pleading standard for alter ego theory; it is adequate for a
plaintiff to allege “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts” and that “less
particularity [of pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to
possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that
possessed by the plaintiff, which certainly is the case” when analyzing alter
ego theory at the pleading stage. 
 
Therefore,
the Court DENIES Cross-Defendants request to strike these alter ego
allegations. 
 
b.     
Punitive Damages

 
Cross-Defendants
argue that Cross-Complainants’ claims for punitive damages, specifically ¶¶ 120 and 174 of the Cross-Complaint must be stricken. 
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
                                                              
i.     
Paragraph 120
 
Paragraph 120 of the Cross-Complaint states “JASPREET and SINGH’s actions
were intentional, malicious, and oppressive and M.KAUR seeks punitive damages
against JASPREET, ONJI, MCGEE and SANTA ANA in an appropriate amount, according
to proof at trial.” (Cross-Complaint,
¶ 120.)
 
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainants fail to plead that Cross-Defendants
have been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. 
 
However, the Court disagrees. The Cross-Complaint contains the following allegations
of fraud.
 
“On
or about July 14, 2022, JASPREET, MCGEE, and SANTA ANA, without M.KAUR’s
knowledge, consent and participation, executed a fraudulent Amendment to
Promissory Note and Personal Guaranty (“AMENDMENT”). M.KAUR did not know about
the AMENDMENT and had never seen it until before the filing of this Cross-Complaint.
A true and correct copy of the AMENDMENT is attached hereto as Exhibit “5” and
incorporated hereat by this reference. The fraudulent AMENDMENT, among other
things, states, “the parties hereto agree to amend the Note and Personal
Guaranty as follows, effective July 14, 2022 (the effective date): The
Promissory Amount including interest is hereby amended to state, ‘Zero Balance
– Paid in Full’.” This is false. M.KAUR never agreed to, consented to, or
authorized the AMENDMENT. Cross-complainant is informed and believes and
thereon alleges that JASPREET forged M.KAUR’s signature on the AMENDMENT. She
also created a fake email address for M.KAUR and then provided a false phone
number that does not belong to M.KAUR to ensure that the AMENDMENT and any
information about the AMENDMENT do not reach M.KAUR. Cross-complainant is
informed and believes that Cross-defendants and each of them were aware of the
fraudulent scheme related to the AMENDMENT and either directly participated in
the scheme and/or conspired together with the other Cross- defendants
to execute the fraudulent AMENDMENT.” (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 32-35.) 
 
“JASPREET,
MCGEE and SANTA ANA intentionally failed to disclose to M.KAUR that they were
falsely applying for the ERTC funds for the relevant time period during which
M.KAUR was the owner of Heralds Home Health and would not be transferring the
ERTC funds covering 2020 and 2021 to M.KAUR. This false representation and
concealment wrongfully deprived M.KAUR of the benefits of the ERTC. 53.
Cross-complainant is informed and believes that Cross-defendants and each of
them were aware of the fraudulent scheme related to the ERTC and either
directly participated in the scheme and/or conspired together with the other
Cross-defendants to apply for the ERTC and prevent M.KAUR from doing so.” (Cross-Complaint
¶¶ 51-52.)
 
Thus, the Court finds these allegations of fraud against all
Cross-Defendants are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. The
Court notes that any argument that the Cross-Complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a fraud cause of action would be proper grounds for
demurrer as opposed to a motion to strike. (Warren v. Atchison, T. & S.
F. Ry. Co. (1971) 19 Cal. App. 3d 24, 41.)
 
Therefore, the
Court DENIES Cross-Defendants’ request to strike Paragraph 120 of the
Cross-Complaint.
 
                                                            
ii.     
Paragraph 174
 
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant also seeks improper
exemplary and/or punitive damages against Cross-Defendants for her Sixteenth
Cause of Action for Unfair Competition § 17200 which must be stricken as they
are not recoverable as a matter of law.
 
Neither nonrestitutionary nor punitive damages are an available form of
remedy under California Business and Professions Code § 17200. (Korea Supply
Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal. 4th 1134, 1152.) Remedies under the California Unfair
Competition Law (UCL) are limited to restitution and injunctive relief, and do
not include damages. (Id. at 1146-1149.)
 
Cross-Complainant does not address this argument in her opposition. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Paragraph 174 of the Cross-Complaint
and the corresponding Prayer for Relief ¶ 16(d) must be stricken as these
damages are not recoverable. 
 
In sum, Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages
in Paragraph 120 of the
Cross-Complaint is DENIED. Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike Paragraph 174 of the Cross-Complaint and the corresponding
Prayer for Relief ¶ 16(d) is GRANTED. 
 
a.      
Declaratory
Relief
 
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant improperly seeks a Judicial Determination and/or
Declaration from the Court against the Cross-Defendants in her Prayer for
Relief Paragraphs 1(a), 2(a), 3(a), 8(a), 10(a), 11(a), 12(a), 16(a), and 19(a), in relation
to her first, second, third, eighth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and
nineteenth causes of action, none of which are Declaratory Relief Causes of
Action.
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, cleaned up.)  
 
A
cause of action for declaratory relief should not be used as a second cause of
action for the determination of identical issues raised in another cause of
action. (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d
465, 470.) “The availability of another form of relief that is adequate will
usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief.” (California Insurance
Guarantee Association v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624.) Further,
“there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.”
(Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation marks omitted.)
 
A proceeding for declaratory relief can only be
properly invoked to “declare rights and not to determine or try issues.” (Loomis
Fruit Growers’ Assoc. v. California Fruit Exch. (1932) 128 Cal. App. 265,
28.) The purpose of a judicial declaration is so that parties may ascertain
their rights and act accordingly so as to avoid committing torts and engaging
in unnecessary litigation. (Babb v. Superior Court (Huntington) (1971) 3
Cal. 3d 841, 848; see Kessloff v. Pearson (1951) 37 Cal. 2d 609, 613. It
does not provide for damages or other remedies of relief. (Ludgate Ins. Co.
v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 592, 606.)
 
The Court
finds that Cross-Complainant’s requests
for a Judicial Determination and/or Declaration to her first, second, third,
eighth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, sixteenth and nineteenth causes of action is
improper. Cross-Complainant seeks other forms of relief as to each of these
causes of action. 
 
Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike these allegations of declaratory relief
in Prayer for Relief Paragraphs 1(a), 2(a), 3(a), 8(a), 10(a), 11(a), 12(a), 16(a), and 19(a) is GRANTED.
 
b.     
Attorneys’
Fees and Costs
 
Cross-Defendants also move to strike the requests for
attorneys’ fees and costs of suit in relation to causes of action in which
are unavailable by law. Specifically, Cross-Defendants seek to strike requests
for costs of suit in the Prayer for Relief: 2(c), 3(c), 8(c) [sic] (should be
8(e)), 9(c), 10(c) [sic] (should be 10(d)), 11(c), 16(c) [sic] (should be
16(d)), and 19(c) [sic] (should be 19(d)); and attorneys fees in the Prayer for
Relief: 2(d), 3(d), 8(d) [sic] (should be 8(f)), 9(d), 10(d) [sic] (should be
10(e)), 11(d), 16(d) [sic] (should be 16(e)), and 19(d) [sic] (should be
19(e)).
 
Cross-Defendants assert the underlying
contracts do not contain an attorneys’ fees and costs provision, nor does it
have a prevailing party clause, thus attorneys’ fees and costs are not proper.
In addition, Prayers for Relief 3(c) and 3(d) in relation to the Third Cause of
Action of Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing must be
stricken as costs of suit incurred and attorneys’ fees and costs are not
recoverable as damages for the breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing are limited to damages which might reasonably be foreseen by the
parties and exclude punitive damages, pain and suffering and/or medical
damages. (Quigley v. Pet (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 877.) Further,
Cross-Defendants argue attorneys’ fees and costs in relation to the Tenth Cause
of Action for Conversion are not authorized by statute and are thus
unrecoverable as a matter of law. Cross-Defendants argue for the same reasons
Prayers for Relief 11(c) and 11(d) must be stricken as attorneys’ fees and
costs are not recoverable under the Eleventh Cause of Action for Unjust
Enrichment, nor are the recovery such available for Cross-Complainant’s
Sixteenth Cause of Action for Unfair Competition thus Prayers for Relief 16(c)
[sic] (should be 16(d)) and 16(d) [sic] (should be 16(e)) are also subject to
be stricken. Cross-Defendants argue, again, Cross-Complainant seeks attorney’s
fees and costs for the Nineteenth Cause of Action for Reformation of Contract
which is a remedy, not a cause of action and does not authorize attorney’s fees
and costs and thus 19(c) [sic] (should be 19(d)) and 19(d) [sic] (should be
19(e)) must be stricken as a matter of law.
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainant
argues that a provision of the Note provides for attorneys fees and costs.
 
However, in reply, Cross-Defendants
assert that relief for the Note is not at issue in the Motion to Strike.
Instead, Cross-Defendants move to strike improper attorneys’ fees and costs
from the other attached Exhibit Contracts.
 
Therefore, the Court does not find
that Cross-Complainant has established a basis for its requests for attorneys
fees and/or costs. 
 
As such, the Court GRANTS Cross-Defendants’ request to strike the following from the Prayer for Relief: 2(c), 3(c), 8(c)
[sic] (should be 8(e)), 9(c), 10(c) [sic] (should be 10(d)), 11(c), 16(c) [sic]
(should be 16(d)), and 19(c) [sic] (should be 19(d)); and attorneys fees in the
Prayer for Relief: 2(d), 3(d), 8(d) [sic] (should be 8(f)), 9(d), 10(d) [sic]
(should be 10(e)), 11(d), 16(d) [sic] (should be 16(e)), and 19(d) [sic]
(should be 19(e)).
 
c.      
Benefit of
the Bargain Damages
 
Cross-Defendants
argue that Cross-Complainant is not entitled to benefit of the bargain damages for
her eighth Cause of Action for Fraud (Misrepresentations and Concealment Re
ERTC).
 
Cross-Defendants
assert these damages are not available to parties that are not in a fiduciary
relationship and that the Cross-Complaint does not allege a fiduciary
relationship. (Alliance Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226,
1240 (“It is well settled that in a nonfiduciary relationship, damages are
limited to the out-of-pocket measure, even if the misrepresentation is
intentional.”) 
 
In
opposition, Cross-Complaint does not address this argument, but asserts that Civil
Code section 3343(a)(3) provides for other damages, stating “Where the
defrauded party has been induced by reason of the fraud to sell or otherwise
part with the property in question, an amount which will compensate him for
profits or other gains which might reasonably have been earned by use of the
property had he retained it.” (Civil Code § 3343(a)(3).)
 
However, “[i]n
fraud cases involving the ‘purchase, sale or exchange of property,’ the
Legislature has expressly provided that the ‘out-of-pocket’ rather than the
‘benefit-of-the-bargain’ measure of damages should apply. Civil Code section 3343
provides the exclusive measure of damages for fraud in such cases.” (Fragale
v. Faulkner (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 229, 236.)
 
Based on the foregoing,
Cross-Complainant fails to establish that benefit of the bargain damages should
apply. The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendants’
request to strike Prayer for
Relief 8(b).
 
d.     
Oral Contract
allegation
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike Prayer
for Relief number 9(b) in its entirety on the grounds that Cross-Complainant is
not entitled to “Damages for breach of oral contract” for Cross-Complainant’s
Ninth Cause of Action for Breach of Addendum of Spa (attached as Exhibit 2 to
the Cross-Complaint) as there are no allegations of an oral contract or its
terms pled by Cross-Complainant. The Court agrees. Cross-Complaint does not address this in her opposition. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Cross-Defendants’
request to strike Prayer for Relief 9(b). 
 
e.     
Constructive
Trust
 
Cross-Defendants
move to strike Prayers for Relief 10(b), 13(b) and 14(b) seeking Constructive
Trust as a remedy for the Tenth Cause of Action for Conversion, the Thirteenth
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief Re the Note and the Fourteenth Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief Re: ERTC. Cross-Defendants argue these must be
stricken in their entirety as a Constructive Trust is an independent cause of
action. The Court agrees. “The
imposition of a constructive trust requires: (1) the existence of res (property
or some interest in property); (2) the right of the complaining party to that
res; and (3) some wrongful acquisition or detention of the res by another party
who is not entitled to it.”  (Burlesci
v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1069.) Cross-Complainant
does not establish in her opposition that Constructive Trust can be pled as a
remedy to her Conversion and Declaratory Relief causes of action. 
 
Thus, the
Court GRANTS Cross-Defendants’
request to strike Prayers for Relief 10(b), 13(b) and 14(b).
 
f.       
Judicial
Foreclosure
 
Finally, Cross-Defendants move to strike Prayer for Relief
Paragraph12(b) for foreclosure sale for the Twelfth Cause of Action for
Judicial Foreclosure as judicial foreclosure is only available on real
property, which the subject property is not. Cross-Defendants assert that judicial
foreclosure is rarely used with deeds of trust due to its lengthy and expensive
nature and is governed by the California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 725a to
730.5. Cross-Complainant’s opposition does not establish or cite to any
authority supporting their position that judicial foreclosure is available on
stocks. 
 
As such, the Court GRANTS Cross-Defendants’ request to strike Prayer
for Relief 12(b).
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike is granted and denied in part. 
 
The Court DENIES Cross-Defendants’ request to strike Paragraph 120
of the Cross-Complaint for punitive damages and Paragraphs 12 and 16-19
of the Cross-Complaint relating to alter ego allegations. 
 
The Court GRANTS the rest of Cross-Defendants’ motion to
strike with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
 