 Case Number:  24STCV14965    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion
to Compel Binding Arbitration 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America moves to
compel arbitration of this action by plaintiff Ashley Davenport.
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes two objections to
the declaration of Ali Ameripour in support of defendant’s motion.  Both objections are overruled.
Discussion
Defendant
relies on two arbitration provisions: one in the “owner’s handbook &
warranty information” (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3), and a second in the “Bluelink
connected services agreement” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2).  As discussed below, the court finds defendant
is entitled to compel arbitration under owner’s handbook.  The court therefore need not and does not
address the parties’ arguments about the Bluelink agreement.  
As
to the owner’s handbook, plaintiff opposes the motion on five grounds. 
1.
Admissibility of Owner’s Handbook
            Plaintiff contends defendant does
not meet its burden of authenticating the owner’s handbook.  The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the
parties.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  A motion to compel arbitration is “a summary
proceeding.”  (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1057 (Espejo).) 
The moving party can meet the “initial burden to show an agreement to
arbitrate by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement.”  (Id. at p. 1060.)  For this initial burden, “ ‘it is not
necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1058 [discussing
authentication of electronic signatures].) 
Only after the opposing party challenges the evidence, the moving party
must present must the moving party “establish by a preponderance of the
evidence that the signature [or agreement] was authentic.”  (Ibid.) 

Challenging
the authenticity of the moving party’s evidence generally requires a
declaration by the plaintiff stating it is not authentic, such as by stating he
or she did not sign the agreement or does not recall signing it.  (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p.
1054; Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
836, 846 [when plaintiff did not “recall signing the 2011 agreement,
(defendant) had the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
the electronic signature was authentic”].) 

Plaintiff’s
declaration does not adequately challenge the authenticity of the owner’s
handbook.  She states she “was never
given notice … that a subsequent enforceable Arbitration Provision existed
inside an Owner’s manual that was presumably delivered to me around the time
the Subject Vehicle was delivered to me.” 
(Davenport Decl., ¶ 5.)  “I was
completely oblivious to the post-sale ‘Arbitration Agreement’ that is buried
within the Owner’s Manual’s approximately 50 plus pages.”  (Ibid.)  She does not state she never received a copy
of the manual and instead acknowledges she “presumably” got a copy.  Moreover, the complaint alleges plaintiff “received
express written warranties” when she bought the vehicle.  (Comp., ¶ 11.)  The “owner’s handbook and warranty
information” contains that express warranty. 

2.
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act
            Plaintiff contends that Song-Beverly
Act adopts the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (MMWA), which purportedly prohibits binding
arbitration of warranty disputes.  Plaintiff
does not allege a cause of action under the MMWA.  Assuming that law (and regulations
interpreting it) applies, the court rejects the argument that the MMWA
prohibits arbitration.  Persuasive
authority has held, “[W]ritten warranty claims arising under the Magnuson–Moss
Warranty Act may be subject to valid binding arbitration agreements.”  (Davis v. Southern Energy Homes, Inc.
(11th Cir. 2002) 305 F.3d 1268, 1280; accord Walton v. Rose Mobile Homes LLC
(5th Cir. 2002) 298 F.3d 470, 479 [“We hold that the MMWA does not preclude
binding arbitration of claims pursuant to a valid binding arbitration agreement”];
 In re Apple iPhone 3G Products
Liability Litigation (N.D. Cal. 2012) 859 F.Supp.2d 1084, 1091 [“because
Plaintiffs may be compelled to arbitrate their state law warranty claims, it
follows that Plaintiffs may also be compelled to arbitrate their MMWA claim”].)
            Plaintiff’s reliance on 16 C.R.R. §
703.5(j) is unpersuasive.  That
regulation does not state that a MMWA claim cannot be subject to arbitration.
            The court concludes the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act does not prohibit defendant from compelling
arbitration of this action.
3.
Civil Code § 1790.1
            Plaintiff argues the Song-Beverly
Act’s anti-waiver provision prohibits any agreement that would waive the right
to bring an action under Civil Code section 1794.  Section 1790.1 provides, “Any waiver by the
buyer of consumer goods of the provisions of this chapter, except as expressly
provided in this chapter, shall be deemed contrary to public policy and shall
be unenforceable and void.”  This
provision prohibits waiving “substantive rights under the Act.”  (Rheinhart v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1016, 1021 (Rheinhart).)  “The Act’s antiwaiver provision is extremely
broad; it is not limited to warranties or any particular time frame during the
purchase process, but encompasses all mandated remedies afforded to
buyers.”  (Id. at p. 1034, italics
added.)  Plaintiff provides no authority
that this statute prohibits waiving procedural rights, such as an agreement to
resolve disputes via arbitration instead of in court.
            Even if the Song-Beverly Act’s anti-waiver
provision otherwise applied to arbitration agreements, the Federal Arbitration
Act would preempt it.  Plaintiff contends
the agreement does not “in fact” involve interstate commerce.  “The FAA applies even ‘ “in individual cases
without showing any specific effect upon interstate commerce” if in the
aggregate the economic activity in question would represent “a general practice
... subject to federal control.” ’ ”  (Evenskaas
v. California Transit, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 285, 294.)  In Evenskass, the court noted, “Even
when providing only local transportation services, California Transit drivers
are almost certain to use highways, one of the ‘instrumentalities of interstate
commerce.’ ”  (Id. at p. 295.)  
The
owner’s handbook concerns an automobile. 
Selling cars and providing warranties for them is a general practice
subject to extensive federal control. 
Plaintiff herself seeks to invoke federal law as discussed above.  The FAA therefore applies and preempts any
provision in the Song-Beverly Act that would prohibit arbitration.  (See Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 924 [holding FAA preempted Consumer Legal Remedies Act’s
anti-waiver provision].)
4.
Acceptance of Agreement in Owner’s Handbook
            Plaintiff contends the owner’s
handbook and warranty information does not bind plaintiff because she did not agree
to it.  “In California, ‘[g]eneral
principles of contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding
agreement to arbitrate.’ ”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)  Generally, “silence
or inaction does not constitute acceptance of an offer”, but “[a]cceptance of
an offer may be inferred from … retention of the benefit offered.”  (Golden Eagle Ins. Co. v. Foremost Ins.
Co. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1372, 1385–1386.) 
Similarly, “a
nonsignatory ‘is estopped from avoiding arbitration if it knowingly seeks the
benefits of the contract containing the arbitration clause.’ ”  (Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old
Colony Ins. Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1070.)  
            The
owner’s handbook and warranty information provides: “If
you purchased or leased your vehicle in California, your warranty is made
subject to the terms of this binding arbitration provision.  By using the vehicle, or requesting or
accepting benefits under this warranty, including having any repairs performed
under warranty, you agree to be bound by these terms.  If you do not agree with these terms, please
contact us at opt-out@hmausa.com within thirty (30) days of your purchase or
lease to opt-out of this arbitration provision.”  (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3, p. 14.)  Plaintiff’s action seeks the benefits of the express written
warranty which contains that provision.
            Plaintiff’s reliance on Norcia v.
Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 845 F.3d 1279 (Norcia)
is misplaced.  The court reasoned that an
arbitration provision in a warranty information brochure did not require
binding arbitration of non-warranty claims. 
The plaintiff alleged Samsung made fraudulent misrepresentations about a
product that “constituted common law fraud and violated California’s Consumers
Legal Remedies Act [citation], California’s Unfair Competition Law [citation], and
California’s False Advertising Law.”  (Id.
at p. 1283.)  Samsung moved to compel
arbitration based on “the arbitration provision in the Product Safety &
Warranty Information brochure,” which was included in the product’s box.  (Ibid.)
            The court stated the rule discussed
above that “[a]n offeree’s silence may also be treated as consent to a contract
when the party retains the benefit offered.” 
(Norcia, supra, 845 F.3d at p. 1285.)  The court held that rule did not apply in
part because “[a] warranty generally does not impose any independent obligation on the
buyer outside of the context of enforcing the seller’s promises.”  (Id. at p. 1288.)  That is the context here.  Plaintiff’s suit seeks to enforce the
promises in defendant’s warranty via the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  Norcia also stated, “Nor
would a reasonable person understand that receiving the seller’s warranty and
failing to opt out of an arbitration provision contained within the warranty
constituted assent to a provision requiring arbitration of all claims against
the seller, including claims not involving the warranty.”  (Id. at p. 1290, italics added.)  Here, plaintiff’s complaint expressly seeks
to enforce obligations arising from defendant’s warranty.  
            Norcia is distinguishable
from this case.  (See Guaschino v.
Hyundai Motor America (2023 C.D. Cal.) 2023 WL 8126846, * 4; Ford v.
Hyundai Motor America (C.D. Cal. 2021) 2021 WL 7448507, * 7.)
5.
Unconscionability
            Finally, plaintiff argues the
agreement is unconscionable.  “Both procedural and
substantive unconscionability must be shown for the defense to be established,
but ‘they need not be present in the same degree.’ ”  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 125 (OTO).)  “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon
the party asserting it.”  (Id. at
p. 126.)  Plaintiff shows moderate
procedural unconscionability but no substantive unconscionability.  She contends the agreement is substantively
unconscionable for two reasons.
First, plaintiff argues the agreement unfairly
limits discovery.  “[P]arties to an
arbitration clause can agree ‘to something less than the full panoply of
discovery provided’ in the Code of Civil Procedure.”  (Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc.
(2024) 16 Cal.5th 478, 504 (Ramirez).) 
“[T]he absence of” provisions for discovery do “not automatically
render” a claim inarbitrable.  (Ibid.)  “ ‘[W]hen parties agree to arbitrate
statutory claims, they also implicitly agree, absent express language to the
contrary, to such procedures as are necessary to vindicate that claim.’
”  (Ibid.)  
“The assessment of whether a discovery clause is
unconscionable should focus on general factors that can be examined without
relying on subsequent developments,” including: “the types of claims covered by
the agreement, the amount of discovery allowed, the degree to which that amount
may differ from the amount available in conventional litigation, any
asymmetries between the parties with regard to discovery, and the arbitrator’s
authority to order additional discovery.” 
(Ramirez, supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 506.)  “Allowing the arbitrator to deviate from
agreed-upon default discovery limits ensures that neither party will be
unfairly hampered in pursuing a statutory claim based on circumstances that
arise post-formation.”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff does not show that the arbitration
agreement unfairly limits discovery.  The
owner’s handbook provides that “binding arbitration shall be administered by
and through JAMS Mediation, Arbitration and ADR Services (JAMS) under its
Streamlined Arbitration Rules & Procedures, or the American Arbitration
Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.”  (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3, p. 12.)  
The record does not include a full copy of either
set of rules.  Plaintiff submitted only
the introduction to AAA’s Consumer Arbitration Rules (Grigoryan Decl., Ex. 1)
and Rule 17 of JAMS’s Streamlined Arbitration Rules (id., Ex. 2).  Neither exhibit includes any provision
limiting discovery.  Plaintiff’s counsel
states, “Arbitrators have personally advised me that depositions can sometimes
be disallowed.”  (Grigoryan Decl., ¶
6.)  Assuming that statement is
admissible, that arbitrators “sometimes” prohibit depositions also means they
sometimes allow depositions.  JAMS Rule
17(e) indicates that parties may take depositions: “The Arbitrator shall
receive and consider relevant deposition testimony recorded by transcript or
videotape.”  (Grigoryan Decl., Ex. 2.)
Courts “assume that the arbitrator will operate in a
reasonable manner in conformity with the law.” 
(Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 984.)  Plaintiff gives no reason to conclude the
applicable rules or the arbitrator would not allow adequate discovery.    
Second, plaintiff relies on the “repeat player”
effect.  California courts have
recognized the repeat player effect as a legitimate concern but held it is not
itself “enough to render an arbitration agreement unconscionable.”  (Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 167, 179; accord Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 985-986.)  Plaintiff relies
on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s analysis of the American
Arbitration Association.  (Opp., p.
16.)  But there is no evidence defendant
has repeatedly appeared before AAA or any one arbitrator.  There is a “strong public policy in favor of
arbitration.”  (Bigler v. Harker
School (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 727, 735.) 
Plaintiff’s concerns about unfairness do not suffice to make the
agreement substantively unconscionable.
Disposition
            Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted.  Plaintiff Ashley
Davenport is ordered to arbitrate this action against defendant Hyundai Motor America.  The court hereby stays the entire action
pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.