 Case Number:  24STCV21363    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s
Demurrer to Complaint
Defendant BMW of
North America, LLC demurs to all five causes of action alleged in the complaint
by plaintiffs Joshua De Paz and Milvia Ramos.
Summary of Complaint
Plaintiffs allege five causes of action: (1)
violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(d); (2) violation of section 1793.2(b);
(3) violation of section 1793.2(a)(3); (4) breach of express written warranty;
and (5) breach of implied warranty of merchantability.  Each cause of action arises from alleged
defects in the subject vehicle, “a 2019 BMW 530 E,” which plaintiffs purchased
in April 2023.  (Comp., ¶ 5.)
Discussion
Plaintiffs do
not allege sufficient facts to constitute any of their five causes of action
against defendant.  Each cause of action
alleges a violation of a provision of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(the Act).  The Act “distinguishes
between new and used products and calibrates manufacturers’ and sellers’
obligations accordingly.”  (Rodriguez
v. FCA US LLC (2024) 17 Cal.5th 189, 200 (Rodriguez).)  Most provisions of the Act apply to “consumer
goods (i.e., new products).”  (Ibid.)  Other provisions apply to “new motor
vehicles,” which the California Supreme Court held does not include “a motor
vehicle purchased with an unexpired manufacturer’s new car warranty …  unless the new car warranty was issued with
the sale.”  (Id. at p. 196.)  
Rodriguez further elaborated on the Act’s distinctions
between new and used products: “Separate from the[] provisions concerning new
products, the Act includes a distinct section addressing used products.”  (Rodriguez, supra, at p. 200.)  “[T]he basic framework of the Song-Beverly
Act distinguishes between new and used products and ‘provides similar remedies
in the context of the sale of used goods, except that the manufacturer is
generally off the hook.’ ”  (Id.
at p. 201 [italics added]; see also Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 385, 399 [“only distributors or sellers of used goods—not
manufacturers of new goods—have implied warranty obligations in the sale
of used goods”].)
As discussed
above, plaintiffs allege they purchased a 2019 BMW vehicle in 2023.  They do not allege the vehicle was new, that
defendant BMW of North America, LLC issued a new vehicle warranty with the
sale, or sold the subject vehicle to plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs’ opposition primarily makes generic
arguments based on the legal standard for demurrers.  It does not cite Rodriguez and does
not adequately address the basis of defendant’s demurrer.  
Disposition
            Defendant BMW of North America,
LLC’s demurrer to plaintiffs Joshua De
Paz and Milvia Ramos’s complaint is sustained
with leave to amend.  Plaintiffs shall have 20 days to file a first
amended complaint.