  Case Number:  23TRCV00942    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                             Wednesday, November 15, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 13   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ashley
Strauss, et al. v. North Oak Real Estate Inv, Inc., et al.    
23TRCV00942
1.     
North Oak Real
Estate Inv, Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint
2.     
North Oak Real
Estate Inv, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

North Oak Real Estate Inv, Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and overruled, in part.
 
North Oak Real Estate Inv, Inc.’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Complaint is moot, in part, and granted with 20 days leave to
amend, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on March 29, 2023.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs were tenants in a building
owned, managed, or controlled by Defendant North Oak Real Estate Inv, Inc. The
property, located at 604 Venice Way #4, Inglewood, CA 90302, suffered from
numerous problems including mold, as well as rodent and termite infestation.
Plaintiffs also allege sexual battery from a worker hired by Defendant.
Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: (1) breach of the implied
warranty of habitability, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) violation
of California Civil Code Section 1708.5 (sexual battery) as to Plaintiff
Evelyn, (4) constructive eviction, (5) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP 435.5.
(Decls., Patrick J. Tornsey, ¶¶ 1-2.) 
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendant demurs to
the third, fifth, and sixth causes for failure to state sufficient facts.
Third Cause of Action for
Violation of Civil Code 1708.5 Sexual Battery
Defendant’s demurrer
to the third cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against demurring Defendant.
First, Defendant argues that it
cannot be liable because it is not a “person.” However, Under the doctrine of
respondeat superior, an employer may, under certain circumstances, be liable
for an assault or an assault and battery committed by an employee in the scope
of his or her employment.
 Civ. Code, § 1708.5(a) states:  
“(a) A person commits a sexual battery
who does any of the following: 
(1) Acts with the intent to cause a
harmful or offensive contact with an intimate part of another, and a sexually
offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results.
(2) Acts with the intent to cause a
harmful or offensive contact with another by use of his or her intimate part,
and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly
results.
(3) Acts to cause an imminent
apprehension of the conduct described in paragraph (1) or (2), and a sexually
offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results.”
 
            Plaintiff
Evelyn Carney alleges that a “worker” named “William” sexually battered her.
First, and foremost, Plaintiff has not alleged facts to demonstrating that
“William” is an employee or agent of Defendant. The reference to him as a
“worker” is vague. Second, even assuming arguendo an agency relationship, Plaintiff
has not alleged facts to demonstrate that the act allegedly committed by “William”
was within the course and scope of his employment with Defendant. An employer
may be held vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the
course and scope of employment.  See, Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Mem.
Hosp. (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296.  However, an “employer will not be held liable
for an assault or other intentional tort that did not have a causal nexus to
the employee's work.”  Id. at 297.  Here, Plaintiff has failed to allege any
facts to establish that the sexual battery was engendered by “William’s”
employment. “[A] sexual tort will not be considered engendered by the
employment unless its motivating emotions were fairly attributable to
work-related events or conditions.”  Id. at 301.  Here, there are no facts alleged that would
establish that the assault was triggered by any aspect of William’s employment.  
 
Another potential
basis for liability against Defendant would be based on a theory that Defendant
ratified the conduct of William. Fisher
v. San Pedro Peninsula Hosp. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 621.  Here, however, Plaintiff has not alleged
facts to show that Defendant ratified the conduct of William. “Ratification ...
may be established by any circumstantial or direct evidence demonstrating
adoption or approval of the employee's actions by the corporate agent.
[Citations.] Such ratification may be inferred from the fact that the employer,
after being informed of the employee's actions, does not fully investigate and
fails to repudiate the employee's conduct by redressing the harm done and
punishing or discharging the employee.” Fisher
v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 621. 
 
The demurrer to the
third cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Fifth Cause of Action for IIED
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action.
“A cause of action for IIED requires proof of: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's
extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.” Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007. 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy
for breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from
suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if the
landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” Id.
Here, however, Plaintiffs have failed
to set forth facts to support the elements of extreme and outrageous conduct,
intent or reckless disregard, and proximate causation. Plaintiffs allege that they
discovered numerous problems with the property including water leaks, mold,
vermin, and that attempts to repair the property were inordinately slow and
delayed. Plaintiffs also set forth numerous health issues that resulted to them
such as colds and skin irritations. 
These allegations are not
sufficient to show that Defendant abused a position of power, or, that
Defendant knew that Plaintiff was susceptible to injuries through emotional
distress, or, that Defendants acted intentionally or unreasonably knowing that
it would likely cause emotional distress. Importantly here, there are no facts
which show that Defendant had any knowledge of the Plaintiffs’ susceptibility
to emotional distress and that it acted unreasonably knowing that emotional
distress would occur from Defendant’s actions. 
Therefore, the demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
            Sixth
Cause of Action for NIED
Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state sufficient facts to state a
cause of action for Negligence. 
Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress is not an independent cause of action.  Instead, emotional distress is a component of
damages that may be recoverable in a Negligence cause of action.  See,
Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric Med. Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d
583, 588. Thus, because no separate cause of action for Negligence has been
asserted, the Court will treat this cause of action as a cause of action for
Negligence. 
The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are duty, breach, causation, and damages. Johnson v. Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
74, 78. The factual allegations of paragraphs 1 to 75, which have been
incorporated within this cause of action, satisfies the familiar elements of
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. 
Thus, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
overruled.
Motion to
Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendant moves to strike the following:

“1. From Paragraph 52, p. 9, lines 2-4 for
“punitive damages” sought in the cause of action for Breach of the Covenant of
Quiet Enjoyment 2. From Paragraph 59, p. 9, lines 23-25 for “punitive damages”
sought in the cause of action for Violation of California Civil Code 1708.5
(Sexual Battery) 3. From Paragraph 75, p. 11, lines 17-19 “punitive damages”
sought in the cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
4. From the prayer, paragraph 4, p. 12, lines 13-14, in their entirety.”
(Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 6-11).
 
As to Items 2 and 3, the motion is moot
upon the sustaining of the demurrer to the third and fifth causes of action.
 
As to Items 1 and 4, the motion is granted
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Plaintiffs set forth conclusory
allegations that Defendant acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally, and/or
recklessly to try to support Plaintiffs’ allegations and prayer for punitive
damages. A Complaint’s “conclusory characterization of defendant's conduct as
intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied, within the meaning of section
3294.” Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872. 
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is moot,
in part, and granted, in part, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of
this ruling. 