 Case Number:  23STCP04632    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  26  
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION
(CCP § 1008, et seq.)
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Respondent Tracy
Fonenette’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On December 27, 2023, Petitioner Ava, Inc. (“Petitioner”)
filed the instant Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award against Respondent
Tracy Fontenette (“Respondent”). Respondent filed an opposition on April 29,
2024. The Petition came for hearing on May 1, 2024 at which time Respondent
appeared and argued. (Minute Order, 05/01/24.) Following Respondent’s oral
argument, the Court granted the Petition and ordered Petitioner to file and
serve a proposed judgment within 20 days. On May 22, 2024, the Court entered
judgment in favor of Petitioner and against Respondent. 
 
Respondent filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration on
May 13, 2024. No opposition has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
The Motion
is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a),
which states in relevant part:
 
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or
to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(a).) The Court lacks the jurisdiction to reconsider a prior ruling, on motion
of a party, where the motion does not comply with the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (e); Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1106.) Additionally, there is a
diligence requirement: “Courts have construed section 1008 to require a party
filing an application for reconsideration or a renewed application to show
diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not having presented the new or
different information earlier.” (Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling,
Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 839.)
 
Respondent brings the Motion for
Reconsideration on two grounds. First, that if the Petition is granted, it will
be unduly prejudicial to Respondent. Second, Petitioner failed to comply fully
with the Arbitration Act to give this Court jurisdiction. Neither of these
grounds constitutes new or different facts, circumstances, or law. The Motion
does not explain and there appears to be no reason why, these arguments could
not have been raised in Respondent’s opposition to the Petition or at oral
argument. Therefore, the Court lacks jurisdiction to reconsider its prior
ruling on the Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award. 
 
Conclusion
 
Respondent Tracy
Fonenette’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 