 Case Number:  24STCV04323    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JASTON ARCHIE, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
TRACFONE WIRELESS, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV04323
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 9, 2025
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendant Tracfone Wireless Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to set
aside the default entered against it on November 19, 2024.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion and vacates the default.
The Court ORDERS that Defendant’s previously-filed Answer be treated as validly
filed.
 
The Court assesses a penalty of $1,000.00 against
Defendant’s law firm under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision
(c)(1). Defendant’s law firm shall pay this amount to Plaintiff within 10 days.
 
Plaintiff is entitled to costs. Plaintiff expended $21.37 in
filing fees seeking entry of default and estimates that the cost of filing his
opposition will be around $27.00. The Court therefore awards an additional
$48.37 in costs.  Defendant’s law firm
shall pay this amount to Plaintiff within 10 days.  
 
Background
 
This case concerns Defendant’s alleged theft of Plaintiff’s
debit card information, money, and other private information when Plaintiff
called Defendant, a cellular service provider, to activate a cellular phone on
December 21, 2023.
 
Defendant then allegedly used the information that it
obtained from Plaintiff to fraudulently withdraw funds from Plaintiff’s bank
account through a hacking technique called “skimming.”
 
Plaintiff filed this action on February 21, 2024. The
operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises
claims for (1) negligence; (2) violations of California Consumer Privacy Act
(Civ. Code, § 1798.100, et seq.); and (3) unjust enrichment.
 
Default was entered against Defendant on March 27, 2024.
 
Defendant moved to compel arbitration on April 2, 2024.
 
On April 25, 2024, the Court relieved Defendant from default
and ordered that Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration would serve as its
response to the Complaint. The arbitration motion was then briefed by both
parties.
 
On June 6, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration.
 
Although Defendant continued to participate in this case
over the months that followed, including opposing an ex parte application
brought by Plaintiff, Defendant did not file an answer for over five months.
 
On November 19, 2024, default was entered against Defendant,
for a second time, pursuant to Plaintiff’s request.
 
On November 25, 2024, Defendant filed an answer.
 
On November 27, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to set
aside default. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Permissive Relief Under Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b) 
 
The trial court has discretion to “relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).)  Such an application shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed in replacement of the
pleading being set aside and shall be made within six months after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or other pleading for which dismissal is being
sought. (Ibid.) 
 
Mandatory Relief under Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b) 
 
Where a defendant in default moves for relief from default,
judgment, or other dismissal against them entered as the result of her
attorney’s mistake and “no more than six months” have passed since the entry of
judgment, the court shall grant such relief as is requested, provided
the motion satisfies all procedural requirements and the court does not find
that the entry of default was caused by something other than the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).)
 
Discussion
 
Relief from Default
 
            Defendant
has provided an attorney affidavit of fault. Defendant waived notice at the
hearing when the Court denied the arbitration motion. Kristel Robinson, defense
counsel, declares that, as an inadvertent result, the law firm did not receive
a copy of the order, which would ordinarily trigger their calendaring
associated with the order. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 6.) As a result, no deadline to
file an answer was calendared. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 6.) Robinson declared that she
had completed a final draft of the answer by June 11, 2024, but did not file it
when it was finalized. (Robinson Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant defaulted for the improper purpose of increasing
Plaintiff’s litigation costs. In support of this claim, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant stated that it intended to appeal the order denying arbitration
following the hearing. However, this statement does not provide clear evidence
that Defendant intended to default in order to increase Plaintiff’s litigation
costs.
 
            The
Court therefore grants Defendant’s motion to set aside default.
 
 
Attorney’s Fees and Costs
 
“The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff requests an award of attorney’s fees and costs.
 
Self-represented parties cannot generally obtain an award of
attorney’s fees to compensate them for their time spent on the litigation. (Atherton
v. Board of Supervisors (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 433, 436.)
 
Plaintiff is entitled to recover his costs.
 
Plaintiff expended $21.37 in filing fees seeking entry of
default and estimates that the cost of filing his opposition will be around
$27.00. The Court deems these amounts reasonable.  
 
“Whenever the court grants relief from a default, default
judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this section, the
court may do any of the following:
 
(A) Impose a penalty
of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or
party.
 
(B) Direct that an
offending attorney pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000)
to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
 
(C) Grant other relief as is appropriate.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(c)(1).)
 
            Plaintiff
requests a $1,000.00 penalty under section 473(c)(1).
 
            Here,
the second default appears to have resulted from the faulty procedures of
Defendant’s law firm. The Court therefore determines that a penalty is
appropriate and assesses a $1,000.00 penalty against Defendant’s law firm.