  Case Number:  23STCV19938    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JUAN MORALES, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
KIA AMERICA, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV19938
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 9, 2025
 Calendar Number:  2



 
Plaintiff Jocelyn Munoz (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel further
responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Special Interrogatories and seeks
sanctions of $3,345.  The Court DENIES
the motion.  The special interrogatories
at issue ask overbroad questions about the practices of Kia America, Inc.
(“Defendant”) in evaluating all Song-Beverly Act claims from 2019 to the
present.  Such interrogatories seek
irrelevant information and are at a minimum overbroad and unduly burdensome.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatory 15.1. and seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,355.  The Court GRANTS the motion. Defendant has
not defended its response, which fails to state the grounds separately for each
affirmative defense Defendant asserted. 
Defendant shall provide a further verified response to Form
Interrogatory 15.1 within 30 days. 
Defendant shall pay Plaintiff’s counsel $1,000 in attorney’s fees within
30 days.
 
The Court admonishes Attorneys Roger Kirnos and Phil A.
Thomas, and their law firm Knight Law Group LLP, for their inappropriate and
unacceptable legal advocacy.  Their reply
brief includes the following line: 
“Defendant’s counsel appears to be either too lazy or too incompetent to
bother reading the law he cited in Defendant’s opposition papers.”  Such personal attacks on opposing counsel are
reprehensible. They violate norms of civility. They place the legal profession
into disrepute. The Court will not tolerate such arguments. If Plaintiff’s
counsel repeats arguments of this nature in the future, Attorneys Kirnos and
Thomas may be subject to sanctions along with their law firm. Moreover, such
tactics may be grounds for a lower award of attorney’s fees for Plaintiff’s
counsel if fees are appropriate in this case. (See Karton v. Ari Design
& Construction, Inc. (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 734.)