 Case Number:  22STCV34138    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 24, 2022, Plaintiff Kamal Rashad Hawkins (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”), County of Los Angeles
(“County”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
March 28, 2024, Metro filed an answer. 
On
May 10, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Jonathan
Valdez-Perez as Doe 1 (“Valdez-Perez”). 
On August 16, 2024, Valdez-Perez filed an answer. 
On
August 9, 2024, Metro filed a motion for leave to file a first amended
answer.  The motion was set for hearing
on September 17, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 4, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Metro
asks for leave to file a first amended answer. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Leave to amend 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.[Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“Courts
usually display great liberality in allowing amendments to answers because ‘a
defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a defense.’ ”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 6:643, p. 6-192 (Cal.
Practice Guide), quoting Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, p. 6-192.) 
In
addition, “it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the
opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:656,
p. 6-195.) 
B.   Civil Code section 3333.4 
Civil
Code section 3333.4 provides:  
“(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c), in any
action to recover damages arising out of the operation or use of a motor
vehicle, a person shall not recover non-economic losses to compensate for pain,
suffering, inconvenience, physical impairment, disfigurement, and other
nonpecuniary damages if any of the following applies: 
“(1) The injured person was at the time of the
accident operating the vehicle in violation of Section 23152 or 23153 of the
Vehicle Code, and was convicted of that offense. 
“(2) The injured person was the owner of a vehicle
involved in the accident and the vehicle was not insured as required by the
financial responsibility laws of this state. 
“(3) The injured person was the operator of a vehicle
involved in the accident and the operator can not establish his or her
financial responsibility as required by the financial responsibility laws of
this state. 
“(b) Except as provided in subdivision (c), an insurer
shall not be liable, directly or indirectly, under a policy of liability or
uninsured motorist insurance to indemnify for non-economic losses of a person
injured as described in subdivision (a). 
“(c) In the event a person described in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (a) was injured by a motorist who at the time of the accident
was operating his or her vehicle in violation of Section 23152 or 23153 of the
Vehicle Code, and was convicted of that offense, the injured person shall not
be barred from recovering non-economic losses to compensate for pain,
suffering, inconvenience, physical impairment, disfigurement, and other
nonpecuniary damages.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3333.4.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.   The complaintThe
complaint alleges that on December 27, 2021, Defendants negligently, carelessly, and unlawfully
drove, operated, entrusted, and maintained their vehicle, causing it to collide
with Plaintiff’s vehicle, injuring Plaintiff and damaging Plaintiff’s property.   A.  
The answer Metro’s answer filed on March 28,
2024, denies the complaint’s allegations and asserts
affirmative defenses. B.   Motion to file amended answer Metro
asks for leave to file an amended answer raising an affirmative defense based
on Civil Code section 3333.4.  Metro
asserts that it did not previously include this affirmative defense in its answer
because it only recently discovered that Plaintiff was uninsured at the time of
the accident on which the complaint is based.  Metro has submitted a proposed first amended answer. 
Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition.  The Court
is not aware of any prejudice that will result from granting Metro’s
motion.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion for leave to file an amended answer.  The Court orders Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority to file and serve a first amended answer within 10 days of the
hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.