 Case Number:  22STCV04191    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
February 2, 2022, Plaintiff Jimmie Khuu (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Roberto Hernandez (“Hernandez”) and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence. 
On
February 4, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Luis
Espinoza as Doe 1 (“Espinoza”). 
On
August 16, 2022, the Court granted Hernandez’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
punitive damages claim with leave to amend. 
On
September 12, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Hernandez
and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence. 
On
January 25, 2023, the Court granted in part Hernandez’s motion to strike
portions of the first amended complaint and struck the punitive damages
allegations with leave to amend. 
On
April 3, 2023, Hernandez filed an answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
January 24, 2024, based on the parties’ stipulation, the Court continued the
trial from February 21, 2024 to November 21, 2024 and ordered that all related
dates would be based on the new trial date. 
On
June 21, 2024, Plaintiff amended the first amended complaint to include
Espinoza as Doe 1. 
On
August 5, 2024, Hernandez filed and electronically served on Plaintiff a motion
for summary judgment.  The motion was set
for hearing on March 21, 2025. 
On
August 14, 2024, Hernandez filed a motion to continue the trial and related
dates or, in the alternative, to advance the hearing of the motion for summary
judgment.  The motion was set for hearing
on September 17, 2024.  No opposition has
been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 21, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Hernandez
asks the Court to continue the trial until after the hearing on the summary
judgment motion or, in the alternative, advance the hearing on the summary
judgment motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
Hernandez
asks the Court to continue the trial until after the March 21, 2025 hearing on his
pending motion for summary judgment.  In the alternative, Hernandez asks the Court to advance the summary judgment hearing. 
Hernandez
timely filed and electronically served the summary judgment motion on Plaintiff
on August 5, 2024.  Due to the Court’s
impacted calendar, the first available date for a hearing on the summary
judgment motion was after the November 21, 2024 trial date. 
“A
trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the
time limits of section 437c. [Citation.]  Local rules and practices may not be
applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion. [Citation.].”  (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.)  When a party
files his motion for summary judgment within the time limits set by Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, he has a right to have its motion heard before
the start of trial.  (See Cole v.
Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.) 
The Court grants Hernandez’s motion to continue the trial until after the
hearing on Hernandez’s motion for summary judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Roberto Hernandez’s motion to continue the trial and related dates.  The Court continues the trial to May 1, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Court continues
the Final Status Conference to April 17, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28
of the Spring Street Courthouse.  All
discovery and related dates will be based on the new trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.