 Case Number:  23STCV26956    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Greg Parker, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV26956




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
California FAIR Plan Association, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Approve Good Faith Settlement
Moving Party: Defendant California FAIR Plan
Association
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     THE MOTION TO
APPROVE GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
 
Any party to an action in which it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement between the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided in CCP § 1005(b).  (CCP § 877.6(a)(1).)  A determination by the court that the
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6 (c).)  The party contesting the settlement bears the
burden of proving that the settlement is in bad faith.  (CCP § 877.6 (d).)  
 
Defendant California FAIR Plan
Association applies for approval of good faith settlement with Plaintiffs in
the amount of $922,284.65. This action arises from insurance claims for damage
caused by a gas line explosion. The parties reached a settlement after
arms-length negotiations. Defendant does not admit fault. There is no
opposition to the application. The Court finds that the settlement is in good
faith.
 
The motion for approval of good faith
settlement is GRANTED.