  Case Number:  23STCV09536    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
California Credits Group, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09536




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Foster Poultry Farms, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint;
Motion for Leave to Amend Answer
Moving Party: Defendants Foster Poultry Farms, LLC
and Foster Farms, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff California Credits Group,
LLC
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS' MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A
CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN
AMENDED ANSWER IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff California
Credits Group, LLC filed a complaint against Defendants Foster Poultry Farms,
LLC and Foster Farms, LLC, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of
contract; and (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith. 
 
Plaintiff is a provider of tax credit
services with a primary focus on California “Enterprise Zone” credits. As part
of the services offered to its clients, CCG identifies available tax credits
based on the location of the business in areas designated as “Enterprise
Zones.” CCG then determines which employees are eligible to qualify to generate
credit (“qualifying employees”), submits the required documentation to the
appropriate agencies, and takes other necessary steps to facilitate the
clients’ qualification for Enterprise Zone credits. Once qualified, credits may
be utilized by the clients to directly offset or reduce their tax liabilities.
 
After CCG completes the qualification
process, clients utilize the Enterprise Zone tax credits in the years they may
be applied based on the applicable California Franchise tax rules. Clients may
benefit from credits associated with a qualifying employee for a period of
several years after the employee has been qualified. CCG charges its clients a
fee equal to a fixed percentage of all the credits (and interest) ultimately
generated from employees qualified by CCG. Unused credits are carried over to
next year.
 
A provision in CCG’s contracts with
Defendants states, “Any reorganization by the Company that results in the
suspension or elimination of Credits identified by CCG will be treated as being
utilized by the Company at such time of reorganization.” CCG alleges that the
Foster Defendants “reorganized” in a series of transactions in June 2022 that
included a change in ownership over the Foster companies, and that through this
reorganization, EZ credits became unusable. CCG alleges that it is entitled to
compensation for the unused credits under this provision.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Motion for
Leave to File Cross-Complaint
“A party who fails to plead a cause of
action. . . whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action.  The court,
after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just
to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to
assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.  This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)  
 
Defendants move for leave to file a cross-complaint
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s CEO, John Simpson. Defendants assert that
they have learned in discovery that Plaintiff has been falsely advertising
their services by stating Plaintiff does not get paid unless the client gets
paid. Defendants also assert that that Plaintiff has engaged in a fraudulent
scheme to cash out client’s credits after any purported “reorganization.” In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts Defendants have known of these facts for almost
two years and make this motion in bad faith.
 
As the cross claims arise from the same
series of transactions and events as the complaint, leave to file the
cross-complaint is mandatory. Delay in making this motion alone is insufficient
to show bad faith.
 
The motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint is GRANTED.
 
B. Motion for
Leave to Amend Answer
The Court may allow, in furtherance of
justice, and “upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars….”  (CCP
§ 473(a)(1).)  A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that
specifies (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  (CRC Rule 3.1324(b).)
It is not an abuse of discretion of the court
to grant the motion unless there is a “showing that actual unfairness or
obvious prejudice has resulted from the allowance of such an amendment”.  (Posz v. Burchell (1962) 209
Cal.App.2d 324, 334.)  “Counsel on the
firing line in an actual trial must be prepared for surprises, including
requests for amendments of pleading.”  (Ibid.)  Absent a showing of prejudice, delay alone is
insufficient grounds for denial.  (See
Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 558, 564–65.)
Defendants
move for leave to file an amended answer to add facts to the answer, modify
some affirmative defenses, add certain affirmative defenses, and make other
minor amendments. Defendants assert that they have learned the facts necessary
to the amendments in discovery. Plaintiff does not oppose this motion.
The
motion for leave to file an amended answer is GRANTED.


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
California Credits Group, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09536




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Foster Poultry Farms, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Seal
Moving Party: Defendants Foster Poultry Farms, LLC
and Foster Farms, LLC
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     THE MOTION TO SEAL IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.  
 
“The court may order that a record be
filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (CRC Rule 2.550(d).)  “The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.”  (CRC Rule
2.551(b)(1).)
 
Defendants move to seal certain items
filed in connection to Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment. Defendants assert that the sealed content includes private financial
and proprietary information of Defendants that would be detrimental to the Defendants
if it were to be made public. This is sufficient to show an overriding interest
justifying the sealing of these records. The Court finds that the factors in CRC
Rule 2.550(d) have been established. The motion to seal is GRANTED.