 Case Number:  24TRCV01106    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
COLEMAN
  JENNINGS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01106




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TESLA
  MOTORS, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November
12, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None 
Motion
to Compel Binding Arbitration
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED and the action is STAYED. 
BACKGROUND
On April 2, 2024, Coleman Jennings filed
a complaint against Tesla Motors, Inc. for violations under Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . . with a
third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.
requests that the Court compel arbitration and to stay the case.
The complaint alleges that on September
30, 2022, plaintiff purchased a 2022 Model Y. 
Complaint, ¶5.  After plaintiff
took possession of the vehicle and during the warranty period, the vehicle
contained defects that substantially impair the use, safety, and/or value of
the vehicle.  Id., ¶10.  Plaintiff provided defendant with sufficient
opportunity to service or repair the vehicle. 
Id., ¶13.  Defendant was unable
and/or failed to service or repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of
attempts.  Id., ¶14.
            Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant Tesla presents evidence
that on November 28, 2021, upon initially placing the order for the subject
vehicle, plaintiff electronically accepted the terms and conditions of the
Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“MVOA”).  Defendant
asserts that the MVOA contains an arbitration provision, which states, in
part:  “Please carefully read this
provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its
affiliates. . . . [Y]ou agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to
any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a
judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered
by the [AAA] under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. . . .”  The provision contains an opt out clause and
that if “you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any
different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement
in a lease or finance contract.”  Raymond
Kim decl., Exh. 1.
Plaintiff did not file an
opposition. 
The Court finds that an arbitration
agreement exists between plaintiff and defendant Tesla (both the manufacturer
and seller of the vehicle) and that plaintiff did not opt-out.  
            Scope
of agreement 
Defendant argues that plaintiff’s
claims against it fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration provision
as they arise directly out of the relationship between plaintiff as
purchaser/consumer and Tesla as the manufacturer/retailer/warrantor/repair
facility. 
The Court finds that the scope of
the arbitration provision covers plaintiff’s claims against Tesla as they
relate to the relationship between plaintiff and Tesla, including manufacture,
sale, warranty, and repairs to the vehicle.
Enforceability
                        Unconscionable?
“Courts analyze the
unconscionability standard in Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of
procedural and substantive unconscionability. 
The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract
is one of adhesion.  Procedural
unconscionability focuses on whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an
inequality of bargaining power or ‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a
complex printed form.  The substantive
element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.  An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied.  However, Armendariz
held, ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Armendariz,
at 114).”  McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 76, 87
(citations omitted).
Defendant argues that the
arbitration provision is enforceable, citing to California Supreme Court case Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding, Co., LLC, which “upheld the entirety of a
substantially similar arbitration provision against a wide array of
unconscionability challenges.”
Plaintiff did not file an
opposition and has made no argument that the arbitration provisions are
unconscionable. 
The Court finds that even if the
arbitration provision is an adhesion contract, when there is no other
indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the
degree of procedural unconscionability is low. 
Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.
App. 4th 695, 704.  Further,
plaintiff had the ability to opt out of the arbitration provision.  Moreover, as in Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 931, “there is no
reason in this case to conclude that plaintiff lacked power to bargain.  In general, nothing prevents purchasers of .
. . vehicles from bargaining with dealers, even though dealers use form
contracts, and nothing in the record shows that plaintiff could not bargain in
this case.”  The Court further finds
little to no substantive unconscionability as the arbitration provisions do not
lack mutuality.
It is reasonable to presume that
Plaintiff agrees with Defendant that this case is properly ordered to
arbitration, as Plaintiff decided not to oppose this motion.  A simple stipulation is suggested to
Plaintiff when, in the future, counsel determines that a case is properly
subject to arbitration.
The motion is thus GRANTED. 
ORDER
The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED.
The action is STAYED. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.