 Case Number:  24TRCV01439    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DONALD
  L. CRAWFORD SR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01439




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
VERIZON
  COMMUNICATIONS, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 12,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Donald L.
Crawford Sr. 
Responding Party:                  Defendant Cellco Partnership
dba Verizon Wireless (joinder by Walmart Inc.)
Motion to Compel
Arbitration or to Show Cause Why Case Should Not Be Returned to Civil Active
List
 
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers. 
RULING
            The motion is DENIED.  
BACKGROUND
            On April 30, 2024, plaintiff Donald
L. Crawford Sr. (self-represented) filed a complaint against defendants Verizon
Communications, Inc., Walmart, Inc., and Samsung Electronics of America, Inc.
for breach of contract, products liability, and intentional tort. 
            On July 10, 2024, the Court granted
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and stayed the case.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §1284.3 states:  “(a) No neutral arbitrator or private
arbitration company shall administer a consumer arbitration under any agreement
or rule requiring that a consumer who is a party to the arbitration pay the
fees and costs incurred by an opposing party if the consumer does not prevail
in the arbitration, including, but not limited to, the fees and costs of the
arbitrator, provider organization, attorney, or witnesses.
(b)(1) All fees and costs charged
to or assessed upon a consumer party by a private arbitration company in a
consumer arbitration, exclusive of arbitrator fees, shall be waived for an
indigent consumer.  For the purposes of
this section, “indigent consumer” means a person having a gross monthly income
that is less than 300 percent of the federal poverty guidelines. Nothing in
this section shall affect the ability of a private arbitration company to shift
fees that would otherwise be charged or assessed upon a consumer party to a
nonconsumer party.
(2) Prior to requesting or
obtaining any fee, a private arbitration company shall provide written notice
of the right to obtain a waiver of fees to a consumer or prospective consumer
in a manner calculated to bring the matter to the attention of a reasonable
consumer, including, but not limited to, prominently placing a notice in its
first written communication to the consumer and in any invoice, bill,
submission form, fee schedule, rules, or code of procedure.
(3) Any consumer requesting a
waiver of fees or costs may establish his or her eligibility by making a
declaration under oath on a form provided to the consumer by the private
arbitration company for signature stating his or her monthly income and the number
of persons living in his or her household. No private arbitration company may
require a consumer to provide any further statement or evidence of indigence. .
. .
(c) This section applies to all
consumer arbitration agreements subject to this article, and to all consumer
arbitration proceedings conducted in California.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Crawford requests that the
Court compel defendants to submit to arbitration as ordered by the Court on
July 10, 2024, and to pay the cost of said arbitration as set forth under CCP §1284.3(b)(1).
            Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration
proceeding is “stalled,” and that plaintiff has made contact with defendants’
attorneys “asking them to set up and pay for said arbitration,” but that they
have refused stating that it is plaintiff’s responsibility to set up the
arbitration.  Plaintiff contends that
defendants also purportedly said that they will not pay for the arbitration
despite plaintiff filing a fee waiver and is considered indigent.
            In opposition, defendants argue that
the motion fails because plaintiff improperly noticed a different hearing date
and the case is stayed.  Defendants also
argue that the motion is meritless because it is plaintiff who refuses to
initiate arbitration before the AAA as required by his customer agreement.  Defendants contend that plaintiff must either
assert or relinquish his purported claims and that defendants cannot be
compelled to initiate an arbitration against itself on plaintiff’s behalf.  Defendants also point out that plaintiff’s
excuse for not initiating arbitration—that defendants decline to pay for
arbitration fees—is a “red herring” because both the AAA Consumer Rules and the
parties’ customer agreement provide for Verizon Wireless to pay all fees
associated with the arbitration, and that the AAA requires no payment
whatsoever from a pro se plaintiff, aside from a $225 initiation fee, which
will also be waived if plaintiff files an affidavit that his income is below
300% of the federal poverty line.  Defendants
also note that after receiving the motion, defense counsel sent plaintiff an
email explaining the AAA procedure for initiating arbitration and providing
plaintiff a link to the arbitration demand form and also confirming that
Verizon Wireless will reimburse plaintiff for any initiation fee he may incur.  See Pavel Ekmekchyan decl.
            The motion is DENIED.  As for the improperly noticed hearing date,
defendants were able to file a substantive opposition and were not
prejudiced.  In any event, there is no
authority for the Court to compel defendants to initiate the arbitration, as
that is plaintiff’s responsibility. 
Further, as both parties agree, defendants are obligated to pay for the
arbitration fees and costs, pursuant to CCP §1284.3.
 
ORDER
            The motion is DENIED.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.