  Case Number:  24TRCV00744    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
FILIBERTA
  MARTINEZ, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00744




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         November 12,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Filiberta Martinez and Ciro Martinez Santiago
Demurrer to Second
Amended Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer to the first, second,
third, and fourth causes of action in the SAC is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
BACKGROUND
            On March 1, 2024, Filiberta Martinez
and Ciro Martinez Santiago filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. for (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b),
(3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3), and (4) breach of implied warranty
of merchantability.
            On April 30, 2024, plaintiffs filed
a FAC.
            On August 9, 2024, the Court sustained
with leave to amend the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action in
the FAC.
            On August 28, plaintiffs filed a
SAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant American Honda demurs to
each of the causes of action in the SAC on the ground that they fail to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The SAC alleges that on July 30,
2017, plaintiffs entered into a warranty contract with Honda, regarding a 2017
Honda Pilot.  SAC, ¶6.  The warranty contract contained various
warranties, including bumper-bumper, powertrain, and emission.  The bumper-to-bumper warranty includes
3-years/36,000 miles and the powertrain warranty for 5-years/60,000 miles.  The warranty contract is attached as Exhibit
A to the SAC.  Id., ¶7.  Defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including
engine defects, electrical defects, and transmission defects.  Id., ¶11. 
Defendant has failed to either promptly replace the subject vehicle or to
promptly make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.  Id., ¶15.
The SAC further alleges that on November
10, 2017, with approximately 1,878 miles on the odometer, plaintiffs presented
the subject vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with various
concerns, including engine, transmission, and/or electrical concerns, with the
vehicle making a squeaking noise when coming to a stop.  The repair facility performed warranty
repairs, including brake pads, caliper, pin lube, road tested, and represented
that the vehicle had been repaired.  Id.,
¶22.  On March 7, 2022, with 37,748
miles, plaintiffs presented the vehicle to authorized repair facility with
various concerns, including with the transmission system problem light
illuminated and D light flashing.  The
repair facility performed repairs, including verifying the cause as the torque
converter, found diagnostic trouble code (“DTC”) P0741 (torque converter
circuit performance or stuck off), performed diagnostics and found bad torque
converter.  The repair facility removed
and replaced the bad torque converter, cleared the DTCs, and represented to
plaintiffs that the vehicle had been repaired. 
Id., ¶23.  On May 2, 2022, with
39,826 miles, plaintiffs presented the vehicle to an authorized repair facility
with engine, transmission, and/or electrical concerns with the check engine
light illuminated.  The repair facility
performed repairs, including verifying the check engine light on, found DTC
P0430 (catalyst efficiency below threshold), performed Service Bulletin 17-036,
updated the PCM, and represented to plaintiffs that the vehicle had been
repaired.  Id., ¶24.  Thereafter, plaintiffs continued to
experience symptoms of the defects despite defendant’s representation that the
various defects were repaired.  Id., ¶25.
Statute of limitations
The SAC alleges that to the extent
there are any statutes of limitations applicable to plaintiffs’ claims, the
running of the limitations periods have been tolled by the following doctrines
or rules:  equitable tolling, the
discovery rule, the fraudulent concealment rule, equitable estoppel, the repair
doctrine, and/or class action tolling. 
Id., ¶27.  Plaintiffs discovered
defendant’s wrongful conduct alleged herein shortly before filing the complaint
when plaintiffs’ subject vehicle continued to exhibit symptoms of defects
following defendant's unsuccessful attempts to repair them.  Plaintiffs presented the vehicle to defendant
on multiple separate occasions to repair the vehicle of the defects, including
November 10, 2017 at 1878 miles and May 2, 2022 at 39,826 miles, both within
defendant’s powertrain warranty of 5 years/60,000 miles.  SAC, ¶29. 
As to class action tolling, plaintiff alleges the filing of Conti v.
American Honda Motor Co., U.S. District Court for the Central District of
California, on March 22, 2019.  Id., ¶27.  Under discovery rule tolling, plaintiffs
allege that they had no way of knowing about defendant’s deception with respect
to the defects until the defect manifested itself and defendant was unable to
repair it after a reasonable number of repair attempts.  Id., ¶33. Within the time period of any
applicable statutes of limitations, plaintiff could not have discovered through
the exercise of reasonable diligence that defendant was concealing the defect
and conduct complained of herein and concealing the company’s true position
with respect to the defects.  Id., ¶34.  Plaintiffs did not discover, and did not know
of, facts that could have caused a reasonable person to suspect that defendants
had concealed information about the defects in defendant’s vehicles prior to
and at the time of sale and thereafter, which was discovered by plaintiffs
shortly prior to filing of the complaint. 
After each repair visit, plaintiffs’ vehicle was presented as
repaired.  Id., ¶36.  Making it even more difficult to discover
that the vehicle suffered from a safety defect was defendant’s issuance of
various TSBs and recalls purporting to be able to fix the symptoms of the
defects and/or that such symptoms were not the result of a defect.  Id., ¶37. 
Under the repair doctrine, the SAC alleges that the statute of
limitations is tolled by various unsuccessful attempts to repair the
vehicle.  Id., ¶38.  Additionally, the limitations period for warranty
claims is tolled against a defendant whenever that defendant claims that the
defect is susceptible to repair and attempts to repair the defect.  Id., ¶39. 
Here, defendant and its dealership undertook to perform various repairs
and issued various repair measures. 
During the time in which defendant presented to plaintiffs that the
vehicle was fixable and attempted to fix it, the warranty period may have thus
been tolled.  Id., ¶40.
Defendant argues that the first,
second, and third causes of action are barred by the four-year statute of
limitations under Commercial Code §2725(2) and accrues when the breach occurs,
regardless of the “aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach” and that
the breach occurs “when tender of delivery” is made, which is July 30, 2017.  See SAC, ¶6. 
Defendant further contends that the SAC does not add sufficient factual
detail to support any tolling or estoppel theories.  Rather, defendant points out, the SAC removes
two repair visits and adds two new repairs that now establish that plaintiffs
were on notice of the purported engine, transmission, and/or electrical
concerns by no later than November 10, 2017. 
SAC, ¶22.  Then, defendant
asserts, in contradiction of the allegation, the SAC alleges that plaintiffs
discovered defendant’s wrongful conduct shortly before filing the
complaint.  SAC, ¶29.  Defendant argues that plaintiffs “adding and
revising of the same conclusory tolling allegations is not sufficient to
overcome the deficiencies in” plaintiffs’ claims.  Further, defendant contends, plaintiffs
continue to allege that their claims are tolled under a class action tolling
theory, which directly undermines their alleged delayed discovery theory by
alleging that they were members of a class action on March 22, 2019.  
Defendant also argues that
plaintiffs’ class action tolling theories remain insufficiently pled as they do
not allege that they were members of the class action, what causes of action
are alleged, and fail to detail how that other lawsuit’s pendency bears on the
allegations of this case.   Moreover, as to the second and third causes of
action, defendant asserts that the allegations are insufficient to show the
later accrual of these causes of action in lieu of the statutory accrual from
date of tender of delivery and fail to identify when those claims actually
accrued, or when defendant purportedly breached its duty.  As to the fourth cause of action, defendant
argues that plaintiffs again fail to show that the limitations period was
tolled as plaintiffs have not alleged facts as to the time and manner of
discovery and the reason why plaintiffs could not have discovered the alleged
defects with due diligence.  
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that the SAC does not affirmatively show a statute of limitations defense.  Plaintiffs dispute that the first through
third causes of action accrued and ran from the date of sale of the vehicle;
rather they arose when the issues related to the engine, transmission, and/or
electrical system continued to manifest, which was shortly before plaintiffs
filed the complaint.  Further, plaintiffs
argue that they sufficiently alleged that their claims are tolled under the
repair doctrine.  As to the fourth cause
of action, plaintiffs argue that the statute of limitations runs at discovery of
the defect and is not limited to time of delivery. 
In reply, defendant contends that
plaintiffs misunderstood defendant’s statute of limitations arguments and the
Court’s previous order sustaining the demurrer to the FAC.  Defendant asserts that it does not dispute that
the accrual of a party’s claims under Song-Beverly Act can be tolled; rather,
it argues that the SAC does not allege facts sufficient to support a tolling
theory.
The Court finds that the first,
second, and third causes of action are barred by the four-year statute of
limitations and that the fourth cause of action is barred by the one-year
statute of limitations, or at the latest by the four-year statute of
limitations if defect is latent.  Civil
Code §1791.1(c) extends that time in which an implied warranty exists to be
breached by no more than one year beyond the date of sale.  Comm. Code §2725(2) states:  “A cause of action accrues when the breach
occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach.  A breach of warranty occurs when tender of
delivery is made, except that where a warranty explicitly extends to future
performance of the goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of
such performance the cause of action accrues when the breach is or should have
been discovered.”
 Plaintiffs allege that the sale occurred on
July 30, 2017.  The claims must have
accrued on or before July 30, 2018, and the four-year statute of limitations
under Comm. Code §2725 expired no later than July 30, 2021.  The complaint was filed on March 1, 2024.
As for allegations of tolling under
class action, delayed discovery, and repair doctrine, the Court finds them to
be conclusory and insufficient.  As to
class action tolling, in their opposition, plaintiffs do not address
defendant’s arguments that the allegations are insufficient.  The SAC alleges a class action filed in 2019
but does not provide any specifics as to how that class action is related to
the herein action.  The Court construes
plaintiffs’ lack of argument as a concession that class action tolling does not
apply.  
As to delayed discovery, the
discovery rule “postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff
discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.”  Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807.  “Under the
discovery rule, the statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff
suspects or should suspect that [their] injury was caused by wrongdoing, that
someone has done something wrong to [them].” 
Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal. 3d 1103, 1110.  Plaintiffs do not allege that after three
separate attempts (the first one in 2017 and the second and third ones in 2022)
how and why plaintiffs were still unsuspecting that a defect was caused by
wrongdoing or why there was a two-year gap between the last repair attempt and
the filing of the complaint.  Further, plaintiffs
have not alleged the time and manner of discovery and the inability to have
made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.  The allegation that they discovered that the
vehicle was not conformed to warranty “shortly before” plaintiffs filed the
complaint “when the issues related to the engine, transmission, and/or
electrical system continued to manifest” is conclusory.  As defendant points out, plaintiffs do not
allege what happened between May 2022 (the last repair visit) and the filing of
the lawsuit two years later.  They do not
allege what occurred “shortly before” the complaint was filed or the date and
circumstances of the claimed belated discovery. 
Moreover, as defendant argues, plaintiffs’ allegations that they were
members of a class action dating back to March 22, 2019 contradict their
delayed discovery argument.
As to the “repair doctrine” tolling
the fourth cause of action, plaintiffs cite to Aced v. Hobbs-Sesack Plumbing
Co. (1961) 55 Cal. 2d 573, 587, which stated that, “[t]he statute of
limitations is tolled where one who has breached a warranty claims that the
defect can be repaired and attempts to make repairs.”  The Aced Court held that if a warranty
relates to a future event, where the defect cannot be discovered by the
exercise of reasonable diligence then the statute of limitations does not run
until the discovery of the defect.  Id.
at 584.  Plaintiffs also cite to A
& B Painting & Drywall, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th
349, 354, which stated that the statute of limitations is tolled “during the
time 'the seller [defendant] honestly endeavors to make repairs to enable the
product to fit the warranty or at least until such time as it becomes
reasonably apparent to the owner that the warranty cannot be met.’”  These cases predate the Song-Beverly Act and
plaintiffs have not cited to any authority that a breach of implied warranty
claim under Song-Beverly Act filed more than four years after purchase of the
vehicle is actionable.  In any event, under
the discovery rule above, plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged that after
three attempts at requesting defendant to repair the vehicle, plaintiffs
remained unsuspecting.  See Jolly,
supra.  Further, plaintiffs have not
alleged when it became apparent to plaintiffs that the vehicle could not be
repaired as there is only an allegation of a third repair attempt in May 2022
and the conclusory allegation that plaintiffs could not have discovered the
defects.
The Court finds that the four
causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations.
 
First cause of action for violation
of Civil Code §1793.2(d)
Civil Code §1793.2(d) states, “Except
as provided in paragraph (2), if the manufacturer or its representative in this
state does not service or repair the goods to conform to the applicable express
warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either
replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an amount equal to the purchase
price paid by the buyer, less that amount directly attributable to use by the
buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity.”
The SAC alleges defendant and its
representatives in this state have been unable to service or repair the vehicle
to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
opportunities.  Despite this fact, defendant
failed to promptly replace the vehicle or 
make
restitution to plaintiffs as required by Civil Code §1793.2(d) and Civil Code §1793.1(a)(2).  SAC, ¶42.
Defendant argues that the SAC still
only vaguely describes three repair attempts commencing almost seven years
before the complaint was file and do not identify the specific express warranty
that was not conformed with, or any other defects pertaining to the vehicle, or
any other repair attempts.  
In the opposition, plaintiffs do
not address.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient that the vehicle was not conformed to the
“applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
opportunities.”  Rather, the allegations
are conclusory and vague. “Simply parroting the language of [a statute] in the
complaint is insufficient to state a cause of action under the statute.”  Hawkins v. TACA Internat. Airlines, S.A.
(2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 466, 478.  “[S]tatutory
causes of action must be pleaded with particularity.”  Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.  Plaintiffs
were given leave to amend to address the deficiencies.  Plaintiffs added no new allegations.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Second cause of action for
violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b)
Under Civil Code §1793.2(b), “[w]here
those service and repair facilities are maintained in this state and service or
repair of the goods is necessary because they do not conform with the
applicable express warranties, service and repair shall be commenced within a
reasonable time by the manufacturer or its representative in this state.  Unless the buyer agrees in writing to the
contrary, the goods shall be serviced or repaired so as to conform to the
applicable warranties within 30 days.  Delay
caused by conditions beyond the control of the manufacturer or its
representatives shall serve to extend this 30-day requirement.  Where delay arises, conforming goods shall be
tendered as soon as possible following termination of the condition giving rise
to the delay.”
The SAC alleges that although plaintiffs
presented the vehicle to defendant’s representative in this state, defendant
and its representative failed to commence the service or repairs within a
reasonable time and failed to service or repair the vehicle to conform to the
applicable warranties within 30 days, in violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b).  Plaintiffs did not extend the time for
completion of repairs beyond the 30-day requirement.  SAC, ¶48.
Defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient because the SAC identifies only three repair
attempts from over five years and fails to identify the number of days it took
to repair the vehicle at that visit or any other repair visit.  Defendant contends that plaintiffs do not
identify the specific express warranty that was not conformed within thirty
days and the number of days the vehicle was under repair.
In the opposition, plaintiffs do
not address.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to show that defendant “failed to commence the
service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service the vehicle
to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days.”  Further, the allegations are conclusory and
not plead with the required specificity. 
Plaintiffs were given leave to amend to address the deficiencies.  Plaintiffs added no new allegations.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Third cause of action for violation
of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(2)
            Under Civil Code §1793.2(a)(2),
“[e]very manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state and for which the
manufacturer has made an express warranty shall:  In the event of a failure to comply with
paragraph (1) of this subdivision, be subject to Section 1793.5.”  
            The SAC alleges that in violation of
Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3), defendant failed 
to
make available to its authorized service and repair facilities sufficient
service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express
warranty period.  Plaintiffs have been
damaged by defendant’s failure to comply with its obligations pursuant to Civil
Code §1793.2(a)(3), and therefore brings this cause of action pursuant to Civil
Code §1794.  SAC, ¶53.
Defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient because the SAC fails to identify the authorized
service and repair facilities that did not have sufficient service literature
and replacement parts, the express warranty applicable to this cause of action,
what alleged defect was not addressed by defendant’s authorized repair
facilities to necessitate further service literature and replacement parts, or
what service literature and replacement parts were necessary so as to repair
the alleged nonconformities with the subject vehicle and that were not provided
by or to Honda’s authorized repair facility that was visited by
plaintiffs.  
In the opposition, plaintiffs do
not address. 
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as they are conclusory and not plead with the
required specificity for the reasons argued by defendant, including identifying
the service and repair facilities, the applicable express warranty, what service
literature and/or replacement parts were necessary.  Plaintiffs were given leave to amend to
address the deficiencies.  Plaintiffs
added no new allegations.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Fourth cause of action for breach
of implied warranty of merchantability
The SAC alleges that at the time of
sale, the subject vehicle contained one or more latent defect(s) set forth
above.  The existence of the said
defect(s) constitutes a breach of the implied warranty because the vehicle (1)
does not pass without objection in the trade under the contract 
description,
(2) is not fit for the ordinary purposes for which such goods are used, (3) is
not 
adequately
contained, packaged, and labelled, and (4) does not conform to the promises or 
affirmations
of fact made on the container or label.  SAC,
¶58.
Defendant argues that the SAC fails
to plead specific facts to support the allegation that the vehicle was not
merchantable, as defined under Civil Code §1792.1, at the time of purchase or
within one year thereafter.  
            In the opposition, plaintiffs do not
address. 
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient.  They are conclusory
and not plead with the required specificity. 
Plaintiffs were given leave to amend to address the deficiencies.  Plaintiffs added no new allegations.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER

            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action in the SAC.
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.