 Case Number:  22STCV33876    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants
Manjit Singh and Sunny Latino Market, Inc.’s Motion for Attorney Fees is
GRANTED in the amount of $18592.50.
 
Defendants to provide notice.
 
I.               
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES
“Except as
attorney's fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode
of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or proceedings are
entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1021.) 
 
“In any action on a
contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and
costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to
one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined
to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party
specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's
fees in addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).) “[T]he party
prevailing on the contract shall be the party who recovered a greater relief in
the action on the contract.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
In determining the proper amount of fees to award, courts use the
lodestar method.  The lodestar figure is
calculated by multiplying the total number of reasonable hours expended by the
reasonable hourly rate.  “Fundamental to
its determination . . . [is] a careful compilation of the time spent and
reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney . . . in the presentation of
the case.”  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48 (Serrano III).)  A reasonable
hourly rate must reflect the skill and experience of the attorney.  (Id.
at p. 49.)  “Prevailing parties are compensated for hours reasonably spent on
fee-related issues.  A fee request that
appears unreasonably inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial
court to reduce the award or deny one altogether.”  (Serrano
v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635 (Serrano
IV).)  The Court in Serrano IV also stated that fees
associated with preparing the motion to recover attorneys’ fees are
recoverable.  (See id. at p. 624.)
Defendants Manjit Singh and Sunny Latino Market Inc. (Defendants) seek
$18,592.50 in attorney fees, per a provision in the contract with Plaintiff
Worldwide ATM, Inc. (Plaintiff). This contract states: “If suit or action is
instated to enforce or interpret any of the terms of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover from the other party, in addition
to costs, its reasonable attorney’s fees, irrespective of the Premises, the
jurisdiction and venue for legal proceedings shall be the Central Courthouse of
Los Angeles County.” (Motion Exh. 1.) Defendants having obtained summary
judgment in their favor are the prevailing parties in this action.
The motion is supported by the declaration of Defendants’ counsel,
Stephen J. Chonoles, who presents billing records supporting the amount of fees
sought. (Chonoles Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 3.) Chonoles’ rate is $400 per hour, and he
presents work performed by his law clerk at $175 per hour, and his paralegals
bill at $150 per hour. (Chonoles Decl. ¶¶ 5–7.) No opposition to the motion has
been filed.
The motion is therefore GRANTED in the amount of $18,592.50.