  Case Number:  23STCV25898    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MORGAN BOTTEHSAZAN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
RAMIN ZAKARYA, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV25898
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 12, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
On May 9, 2024, the Court set an order to show cause on the
issue of whether California is an inconvenient forum for this action. The Court
requested briefing on this issue from Defendants Ramin Zakarya (“Ramin” [the
Court uses first names only for clarity, and means no disrespect]), Elizabeth
Zakarya (“Elizabeth”), Fred Yazdanpanah, and Empire State Commercial Properties
Corp. (“Empire”) (collectively, (“Defendants”) and from Plaintiff Morgan
Bottehsazan (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court finds that California is the proper forum for this
action.
 
Background
 
This case relates to a real estate transaction. The
following facts are taken from the allegations of the Complaint.
 
In 2016, Plaintiff was procuring a purchaser for the real
property located at 218-220 East 27th Street, New York, New York (the
“Property”). Plaintiff and Defendants reached a deal to co-broker and sell the
premises. The parties, negotiating in California, reached an oral agreement
that the fee or commission to be received from any purchaser would be 6 percent
of the purchase price. The parties agreed that Plaintiff would receive one half
of the proceeds and Defendants would receive the other half.
 
A purchaser was found, and a closing took place on the
Property. The purchaser agreed to pay the requested permission of 6 percent. At
closing, the purchaser paid a price of $13,100,000.00 for the Property.
However, the purchaser refused to pay the full commission to the parties, which
would have totaled $786,000.00, and instead placed only $100,000.00 in escrow.
 
Litigation ensued in the New York Supreme Court for the
payment of the entire commission (the “New York Action”). Plaintiff drafted and
authored the complaint in the New York Action. In the New York Action, Ramin
and Yazdanpanah testified under oath that the Defendants had entered into an
oral agreement with Plaintiff to share the commission with Plaintiff, with
Plaintiff receiving one half and Defendants collectively receiving the other
half.
 
During the course of the New York Action, Yazdanpanah testified
under oath that he had received a sum of $25,000.00 from the purchases as
commission. Plaintiff was never notified of this payment.
 
In May 2023, Defendants reached a settlement with the
purchasers without Plaintiff’s knowledge, agreeing to receive a reduced
commission. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants intentionally concealed this
information from Plaintiff and received all of the settlement funds, including
the $25,000.00 previously paid to Yazdanpanah, without Plaintiff’s knowledge or
consent.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on October 23, 2023, raising
claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) fraudulent misrepresentation; (3)
negligent misrepresentation; (4) breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; and (5) breach of fiduciary duty.
 
On February 8, 2024, each Defendant filed a separate answer.
 
On April 9, 2024, Defendants moved for judgment on the
pleadings. Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendants did not file a reply.
 
In Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings, they
argued, inter alia, that this action should be dismissed on the basis of the
forum non conveniens doctrine. The Court rejected this argument on the basis
that it was not timely raised. The Court granted the motion for judgment on the
pleadings in part with leave to amend. The Court set an order to show cause on
the issue of forum non conveniens and requested briefing from the parties.
 
Plaintiff filed a brief on July 3, 2024. Defendants did not
file a brief.
 
Legal Standard
 
Either prior to trial, but after the time to answer or demur
has passed, or at the trial, the plaintiff or the defendant may move for
judgment on the pleadings and that the appropriate ground for such a motion is
the same as that arguable by general demurrer, namely, the failure to state a
cause of action or defense. (Dobbins v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d
787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583,
586 [The non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings can be made at any
time, even during trial, since the grounds for a general demurrer are never
waived.], see also Code Civ. Proc., §438(f).)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g.,
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998)
§§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Both a demurrer
and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of
which a court may take judicial notice. (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v.
Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex
Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
The motion may be made only after one of the following
conditions has occurred: (1) If the moving party is a plaintiff, and the defendant
has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for the
plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired; (2) If the moving party is a
defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the
complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f).) The motion provided for in Code of Civil Procedure
section 438 may be made even though either of the following conditions
exist:  (1) The moving party has already demurred to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section and the demurrer has been overruled, provided that
there has been a material change in applicable case law or statute since the
ruling on the demurrer; (2) The moving party did not demur to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(g).) No motion may be
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438 if a pretrial conference
order has been entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).)   
 
Discussion
 
Forum Non Conveniens
 
 
“When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds
that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a
forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole
or in part on any conditions that may be just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30,
subd. (a).)
 
“Forum non conveniens is an equitable doctrine invoking the
discretionary power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has
over a transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more
appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.” (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc.
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.)
 
The defendant bears the burden of proof, meaning defendant
must provide the trial court with sufficient evidence to enable it to carry out
its weighing and balancing analysis. (National Football League v. Fireman's
Fund Ins. Co. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 902, 926-927, 933.) 
 
A plaintiff’s choice of forum will not be disturbed unless
the court is convinced that: (1) a “suitable” alternative forum exists; and (2)
the balance of private and public interest factors makes it “just” that the
litigation proceed in the alternative forum. (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d
752.)
 
“The private interest factors are those that make trial and
the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively
inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of
obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process
for attendance of unwilling witnesses. The public interest factors include
avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars, protecting
the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon to decide cases
in which the local community has¿little concern, and weighing the competing
interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the litigation. (Stangvik
v. Shiley Inc., supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 751.)
 
The doctrine “has typically been applied, however, to
provide relief to a nonresident defendant in an action brought by a nonresident
plaintiff, where the forum state has little or no connection with the matter in
litigation.” (Hadler v. Western Greyhound Racing Circuit (1973) 34
Cal.App.3d 1, 5.) “Where the plaintiff is a California resident, as the
plaintiff herein is, the doctrine has extremely limited application.” (Ibid.)
“’Suit in . . . [California] may involve hardship to the defendant, but the
obvious convenience to the plaintiff in bringing suit there, together with the
clear interest of this state in plaintiff's welfare will make this state an
appropriate forum except in unusual circumstances.’” (Thomson v. Continental
Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 745, quoting Rest.2d Conflict of Laws (Ten.
Draft No. 4) § 117e, com. f.)
 
The Property whose sale gives rise to this action is located
in New York. Defendants live in New York. The New York Action which gives rise
to some of Plaintiff’s fraud claims, occurred in New York. Plaintiff lived and lives
in California. The purchase agreement for the Property was negotiated in
California.
 
Defendants argued in their motion for judgment on the
pleadings that California is not the proper forum because the controversy in
this case did not arise in California and because none of the Defendants reside
in California. Defendants have not supplemented this argument with further
briefing. “The instant case does not present such unusual circumstances. It is
a typical suit on a contract -- a transitory action.” (Thomson v.
Continental Ins. Co., supra, 66 Cal.2d at p. 745.) Defendants have
not met their burden to show otherwise.
 
The Court therefore finds that California is a proper forum
for this action.