 Case Number:  23TRCV02581    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    December 4, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02581
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Cruz
Mirtala Flores; Manuel Flores v. General Motors LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs,
Cruz Mirtala Flores and Manuel Flores  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
General Motors, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           August 7, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Compel GM’s
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One    
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
GM’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One    
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) DISCUSS.  
                                                (2) DISCUSS
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiffs, Cruz Mirtala Flores and
Manuel Flores (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant,
General Motors, LLC and DOES 1 through 50 (“GM”). The complaint alleges causes
of action for: (1) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of
Civil Code section 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3);
(4) Breach of Express Written Warranty – Civil Code section 1791.2(a); 1794;
and (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability – Civil Code section
891.1; 1794. 
 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs propounded Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One on GM.
GM served written responses to Plaintiffs’ first set of discovery on August 14,
2024. The parties have attempted to meet and confer regarding the disputed
discovery, but Plaintiffs state GM indicated it does not intend to
substantively comply with the discovery requests that are the subject of this
motion without an order from this court. As such, Plaintiffs have brought these
motions to compel GM’s further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
On October 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed these
Motions to Compel GM’s further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One. On November 19, 2024,
GM filed opposition briefs. To date, no reply brief has been filed.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.)
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.    Discussion 
 
                                  
i.         
Meet and Confer 
 
On September 17, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel states he sent
a meet and confer letter to Defense counsel. (Declaration of Andrew J. Dickson
(“Dickson Decl.”), ¶ 8.) Dickson contends that on September 23, 2024, the
parties entered into a stipulated protective order in this matter . (Dickson
Decl., ¶ 9, Exhibit 7.) Dickson also states the parties continued to meet and
confer about their discovery dispute since that time, but ultimately determined
that some of the issues could not be resolved without recourse to this court. (Dickson
Decl., ¶ 10, Exhibit 8.) 
 
GM’s opposition briefs argue that Plaintiffs did not
meet and confer in good faith as their communications did not provide
substantive reasoning or analysis, declared Plaintiffs’ requests valid, and
declared GM’s objections invalid, and demanded that GM produce all manner of
documents that had nothing to do with this case. However, the meet and confer
efforts appear to be in good faith. Defendant does not identify any specific
issue with these efforts besides maybe the fact that Defense Counsel’s
declaration stating that “instead of continuing in a good faith attempt to
resolve this dispute, Plaintiffs filed the present Motion to Compel on October
1, 2024.” (Declaration of Natalie Keshishian (“Keshishian Decl.”), ¶ 8.) The
court finds this stance to be curious, specifically because Defense Counsel
admits to Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s September 27, 2024 communication requesting an
additional two weeks to file this motion past the October 1, 2024 deadline but
fails to state whether this request was granted or even acknowledged by Defense
Counsel at the time. (Keshishian Decl., ¶ 7.) As such, Defense Counsel should
not be surprised that Plaintiffs Counsel filed the motion on its deadline when
there is no indication of a grant of the requested two-week extension. 
 
The court finds that Plaintiffs’ meet and confer
efforts were sufficient prior to filing this motion. 
 
                                 
ii.         
Motion to Compel Further
Requests for Production of Documents
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel GM’s
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Plaintiff
seeks further responses to RFP Nos. 25-28, 30, 31, and 36-45. The court rules
on each as follows: 
 
RFP
No. 25: DISCUSS. Although the court agrees that the applicable warranty
policy and procedure manual published by defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the year the
lawsuit was filed would be relevant, this is not what is asked by RFP No. 25. As
asked, the request seeks documents which evidence a GM program or system to
identify vehicles (generally) that have been presented to its authorized repair
facilities on more than one occasion. Is there any such system or program applicable
to California vehicles?  Does GM have a
program in its warranty reimbursement system to “flag” vehicles that have multiple
repair visits for the same symptom or complaint?  A verified written response stating that
there is or is not such a program or system would resolve the discovery
dispute, but that is not what GM provided here. 
 
 
RFP
Nos. 26-28: DISCUSS.  RFP 26 expands
RFP 25’s request to include a system or program in place for GM to identify vehicles
subject to a manufacturer’s affirmative obligation to buy back a vehicle.  The scope of the RFP seems overly broad, in
that it is not limited to vehicles sold or leased in California, or limited in time
to the period before this lawsuit was filed, but GM’s response does not
indicate whether there is or is not any such system or program even with these
limitations.  RFP 27 seeks documents indicating
GM’s compliance with the Song-Beverly Act, but it does not narrow its scope to a
written guideline to decision makers in California, or a policy statement that
GM acknowledges or directs employees to affirmative offer a refund or replacement
when certain parameters are met.  As
drafted, the RFP seems overly broad but the general concept appears to warrant
a verified response of ability or inability to comply with the production of some
policy statement.     As for
RFP 28, how can a party produce a document that evidences an unwritten
policy?  Plaintiff should clarify this in
oral argument.  
 
RFP
Nos. 30-31: DISCUSS.  Although RFP 30
includes a time period of documents for which it seeks, the time period should be
limited to the time before this lawsuit was filed.  RFP 30 appears to the Court to seek any guidelines,
policy statement, or protocol for how in general GM evaluates a customer
request for a buyback, i.e., steps GM is to take to evaluate and respond to a consumer’s
telephonic or emailed, or written request for a Song-Beverly buy-back.  That seems to the Court to be a reasonable
topic as to which GM either does or does not have a responsive document.   RFP 31
seem to seek a warranty policies and procedures manual, not as to any specific
repair complaint but in general.  Such documents
should be identified and produced in a further response.  
 
1.     RFP Nos. 36-37, 39, 41, 43, 45: DISCUSS.  RFP 36 seeks “investigation” documents as to
a customer complaint of a temperature gauge fluctuation, i.e., internal,
technical literature reflecting an evaluation of such a complaint.  Responsive documents might reasonably include
a repair procedure, diagnostic trouble-shooting guide, ro similar documents as
to the same make, model, and model year as Plaintiff’s vehicle.  A TSC or ISB on the subject if one exists should
be identified and produced.  RFP 37 seeks
document identifying other customers whose same make, model, and model year
vehicle who made a complaint about temperature gauge fluctuations either by a warranty
complaint, lawsuit, or buy-back request. 
Other customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects
claimed by plaintiff, limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same
year, make and model of the subject Model year 2018 Chevy Colorado vehicle are
discoverable, such as from GM’s warranty reimbursement system.  The Court typically discusses with counsel
the type of documents that may be required and the format for a production of
documents such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or
summary of much more voluminous documents. 
The spreadsheet typically would contain the repair date, the VIN last 6
of the other customers’ vehicle, the servicing dealer by name, location and/or
dealer code, a description of the customer’s complaint as listed in the
warranty claim submission (i.e., fluctuation of the temperature gauge), the
determined cause if any of that complaint or whether no problem or cause was
found, and the correction, repair, or replacement performed if any.
a.      The
Court intends to narrow the scope of permissible discovery of other MY 2018 Chevy
Colorado vehicles’ customer complaints as noted above.  Thus, the volume of customer repair files to
be reviewed will be only the MY 2018 Chevy Colorado’s sold or leased in
California, a much smaller and less burdensome amount than the national total
of all MY 2018 Chevy Colorado vehicles distributed in the United States.  The Court will NOT order GM to identify the
other customers by name, address, telephone number or any other PII.  Any such compilation will be subject to a
Discovery Protective Order in this case, and the custodian or other person who
generates the compilation may need to be identified if the parties cannot
stipulate to the use and admissibility of the chart.
b.     The
Court will not order production of ESI as to other California customers’
complaints of repair issues that occurred on a single occasion in the
plaintiff’s repair history.  Merely
because the Plaintiff experienced a repair issue does not make discovery of
every other California customer’s records for that repair issue reasonable when
considering the needs of the litigation, the importance of that issue to the
issues disputed in this litigation, the amount in controversy, and the costs of
providing the broader scope of discovery sought by Plaintiff.  
 
RFP Nos. 38, 40, 42, 44: DISCUSS. Although the court typically finds relevant, any internal
analysis and/or investigation regarding the primary or other recurring alleged
defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same year,
make and model of the subject vehicle. The requests are not limited as such.
Instead, the request fails to limit request to the 2018 Chevy Colorado
only.  If GM has a TSB or an ISB that
mentions fluctuation of the temperature gauge applicable to a model year 2028
Colorado, such documents must be identified and produced.
 
                               
iii.         
Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
 
SROG Nos. 12-14: GRANT.
Even though Plaintiffs have not brought forth a class action lawsuit, SROG 12
simply seeks a number, i.e., the sale or lease figures for 2018 Chevy Colorado
vehicles sold in California.  That is not
a burdensome request.  As to whether GM
has repurchased a California-sold 2018 Colorado because of a recurring
complaint about fluctuation of a temperature gauge, the Court finds such an
interrogatory to be reasonably calculated. 
However, as phrased, SROGs13 and 14 are limited to the temperature gauge
issue as the only basis for a buy-back, i.e., not a temperature gauge plus
other repair complaint.   
 
SROG Nos. 15-28:
DISCUSS in light of the Court’s rulings on SROGs 13-14. The Court will likely
order the parties to meet and confer and return in 45 days for a contained
hearing if the matters cannot be resolved informally.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 