 Case Number:  24TRCV02401    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 4, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV02401
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        8731 Belford Fee Owner LLC v. Be
Meticulous, LLC, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants,
Be Meticulous, LLC and Meticulous Services, LLC
                                                (2) Plaintiff, 8731
Belford Fee Owner, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff,
8731 Belford Fee Owner LLC
                                                (2) Defendants, Be Meticulous, LLC and Meticulous
Services, LLC (No Opposition)
 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants, Be Meticulous, LLC and
Meticulous Services, LLC’s  Motion for Protective Order
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (3) Plaintiff’s
Request for Monetary Sanctions 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1) DENIED.
                                                (2) GRANTED in part
and requires oral argument in part. 
                                                (3) GRANTED in part,
with the total amount to be based on oral argument provided at the hearing. 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff, 8731 Belford Fee Owner LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Be Meticulous, LLC, Meticulous
Services, LLC, and DOES 1 through 25. On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Unlawful
Detainer (Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(1) – No Possessory Interest); (2) Unlawful
Detainer (Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(1) – Lawful Termination of Tenancy at Will);
(3) Unlawful Detainer (Code Civ. Proc. § 1161(4) – Use of Premises for Unlawful
Purpose). 
 
Defendants filed a motion for protective order to limit the
discovery requested by Plaintiff which was previously heard and continued to
this hearing date. 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff has brought a Motion to Compel
Further Responses from Defendants regarding Form and Special Interrogatories,
Set One. 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 14, 2024, Defendants filed this
Motion for Protective Order. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition
brief. On August 28, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief. This motion was
previously heard on October 28, 2024, and subsequently continued to this
hearing date. The court ordered the parties to submit a joint or separate
statement if counsel could not agree to a joint statement “…of
what documents categories at issue in this UD Action have not already h[a]d
responsive documents produced in the Civil Action, and what RFPs remain at
issue as to which of the 15 subject properties in this UD Action where none or
insufficient documents have been produced already in the Civil Action.” On
November 27, 2024, Defendants filed the joint statement.
 
Also,
on November 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to
Compel Further Responses from Defendants regarding Form and Special
Interrogatories, Set One. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Michaelangelo Tatone: 
Sustain: 1-5
Overrule: none.
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A protective order may issue
under Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2017.020, 2025.420, 2030.090, 2031.060, and 2033.080.
In each case, a protective order should be issued for good cause, such as to
prevent unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and
expense. Additionally, prior to making such a motion the moving party must
attempt to informally resolve the issue and attach a declaration pursuant to
CCP § 2016.040. 
 
A monetary sanction shall be
imposed upon any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes
a motion for protective order unless the court finds that the sanctioned party
acted with substantial justification, or that the circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (h).) 
 
“ ‘[T]he
issuance and formulation of protective orders are to a large extent
discretionary”’ and a ruling on such motions will not be disturbed absent abuse
of discretion. (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 316-17.)  
 
The burden
is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for the order
sought. (Id. at p. 318.)  
 
B.   
Protective
Order 
 
At the previous October 28, 2024 hearing, this court continued
this motion and ordered the parties to file a joint or separate statement
detailing which documents categories at issue in this UD Action
have not already had responsive documents produced in the Civil Action, and
what RFPs remain at issue as to which of the 15 subject properties in this UD
Action where none or insufficient documents have been produced already in the
Civil Action. The parties have now filed a joint statement detailing the following:

 
Defendants
maintain that the currently pending civil action concerns forty-three (43)
properties, fifteen (15) of which are the same properties involved in this UD
action. In that civil action, Defendants state they have produced 48,816 pages
of documents, 493 of which consist of their prior production. Defendants also
contend that the 48,816 pages of documents do not even take into account
imbedded and downloadable files consisting of maintenance requests, text
messages, and email communications, which account for approximately 2,420
pages. Defendants produce their post recent supplemental response as Exhibit D
to the joint statement. Defendants argue that the Plaintiff in this UD action has
served discovery, including RFPs of documents 
against both Defendants, which consist of similar, and in many cases,
identical requests for documents which have been produced in the civil action. 
 
In
Plaintiff’s portion of the joint statement, Plaintiff asserts that at the time
Defendants filed this Motion for Protective Order, they had only produced
approximately 500 pages of documents in the civil action, and represented to
Judge Fujie in the civil action, that they had produced all responsive
documents. However, about a month after maintaining they had produced all
responsive documents, Defendants produced the approximately 50,000 pages of
additional responsive documents, many of which were the same documents counsel
for Defendants represented did not exist. Thus, Plaintiff questions Defense
Counsel’s unsupported and unsworn claims by counsel concerning the purported
completeness of Defendants’ document production. 
 
Plaintiff
concedes the October 2024 production appears to produce some responsive
documents to most of the UD Plaintiff’s RFP. However, despite this, Plaintiff
argues that there are substantial omissions, specifically relating to financial
records. For example, Plaintiff points to the bank statements that have been
produced in the civil action (METICULOUS-048508 through METICULOUS-048816) and
contends that they are heavily redacted. Plaintiff asserts that because of said
redaction, the Defendants have not fully complied with the landlord’s requests.
Moreover, Plaintiff also states the redacted bank statements appear to
reference transfers from other accounts held by Defendants (accounts for which
statements have not been produced. Based on this, Plaintiff suggests there is
substantial reason to believe Defendants have selectively withheld subsets of
responsive documents. 
 
Next,
Plaintiff argues that it has run into issues related to the highly irregular
form of Defendants production, which appears to impede the location and review
of documents. For example, Plaintiff states that Defendants, rather than
producing documents as they are kept in the ordinary course of business, has
been inserting documents into and between documents that have already been
Bates-Stamped, making them effectively hidden from view. Plaintiff also asserts
that Defendants have been repeatedly re-producing the same documents, thereby
forcing the propounding party to review every document each time to ascertain
whether any documents have been added, altered, or removed. As such, Plaintiff
is concerned that Defendants are selectively withholding damaging documents and
seeking to avoid providing a verified statement of compliance. 
 
Based
on the above, Plaintiff argues that given Defendants’ repeated representations
of “[f]ull compliance,” there are no possible grounds for any protective order,
and Defendants motion should be denied as moot. Further, Plaintiff requests
that Defendants should be ordered to serve code-compliant supplemental
responses to the Request for Production of Documents no later than three (3)
days from the date of the Court’s order on the motion. Plaintiff further
concedes that any documents previously produced to undersigned counsel in
either action do not need to be re-produced. 
 
Here,
the court requests oral argument as to why Defendants’ Counsel has been
reluctant to provide a statement of compliance pursuant to the California Code
of Civil Procedure. Moreover, the detailed review of the alleged responsive
documents produced versus “Landlord’s response” provide that much of the
production is not per se responsive to the specific request. Defendants are
required to provide oral argument as to each of these issues. The court also requires
oral argument on why the subsequent production of almost 50,000 pages of
documents does not moot Defendants’ Motion for Protective Order. As production
in the civil action appears to overturn more responsive documents, the court is
reluctant to grant a protective order in this action. 
 
C.   
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories,
Set One
 
In addition to the issues
regarding the continued hearing on protective order above, Plaintiff has also
filed a Motion to Compel Defendants’ Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
and Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
                         
i.         
Legal Standard 
 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.)
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
                       
ii.         
Form Interrogatories – Unlawful Detainer
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks
Defendants’ further responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 70.13, 71.3, and
72.3. 
 
Form Interrogatory No. 70.13: GRANTED. Subsection
(a) of this request asks for the name, address, telephone number, and birthdate
of the human beings currently occupying the Premises, Meticulous identified the
two named defendants in this action. However, the two Meticulous entities are
limited liability companies and not capable of “occupying” a residential
apartment. This response does not answer the posited question in subsection
(a). The court overrules the objections as to overbreadth based on timing, as
the request does not ask for such information for an unspecified amount of
time. As framed, the interrogatory seeks current occupants. In fact, the only
objection that may be relevant to this interrogatory is that of privacy of
third parties, however, if this were the case, Defendants would be required to
file a protective order outlining that said information was protected. However,
because this case involves the potential and alleged illegal home-sharing
business, information regarding tenants is presumptively relevant in proving or
disproving whether Defendants were engaged in said business on Plaintiff’s
property. 
 
Form Interrogatory No. 71.3: AGRUE.
The
information sought in this interrogatory would aid in proving or disproving
Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants were engaged in the illegal
home-sharing business. Again, the objections asserted are unmeritorious. For
example, Defendants object on the grounds that the request is “overly broad,
indefinite as to time and without reasonable limitation in scope,” despite the
request clearly requesting information for the 12 months leading up to the
notice to quit. Rent payments from Defendants would be particularly relevant in
understanding the alleged “oral periodic lease agreement” Defendant claim to
have had with the former owner in or about 2020. 
 
            However, the court observes that Defendants produced rent
payments made by Defendants to owner as well as payments received by
Defendants. As such, the court seeks oral argument from Plaintiff on what it
perceives to be missing from this production. 
 
Form Interrogatory 72.3,
subsection (a): GRANTED. Like with Form Interrogatory No. 70.13, this interrogatory requests
the “name of the person who received” the Notice to Quit. Meticulous states
that “occupants of the rental units and representatives of Meticulous Services,
LLC received the notices” but does not identify those occupants and
representatives. The court again does not find the majority of the objections
to be meritorious and overrules them. For the same reasons as Form
Interrogatory No. 70.13, the court GRANTS this request. 
 
                     
iii.         
Special Interrogatories 
 
As to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, set one, Plaintiff seeks an order from this court compelling
further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 7 and 8. Plaintiff argues
that further responses are required to be provided to both of these interrogatories
on three grounds: (1) First, Plaintiff asserts the responses do not include
verified statements attesting that the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.230 have been met; (2) Second, Plaintiff contends the Defendants
have not identified documents from which it can ascertain the requesting
information, including but not limited to, the identity or identities of the
actual or intended recipients of the payments – making the responses unclear
and confusing. Like with the above issue regarding the protective order and
RFPs, Plaintiff argues the documents Defendants identify do not contain the
requested information; and (3) Lastly, Plaintiff states Defendant have not
fully produced the underlying financial records from which its summary document
was prepared – which would include the full, unredacted bank records, wire
transfer receipts, and check receipts, among other things. Because this court
is requiring Defense Counsel – in connection with the protective order and RFPs
at issue – to present oral argument, the court will also get a clearer picture
as to its ruling on this motion after said oral argument. 
 
                      
iv.         
Sanctions 
 
In connection with
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form and Special
Interrogatories, Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions as imposed against
Defendants in the amount of $3,240. This amount is based on Plaintiff’s
Counsel, Daniel E. French’s declaration (“French Decl.”) which states his
hourly rate is $540, and that he spent no less than 6 hours preparing the
motion and supporting documents. The court will decide sanctions after hearing
oral argument in connection with the issues identified by this court in its
analysis above. However, the court does acknowledge that the claimed $540
hourly rate requires more foundation such as years of practice, expertise in this
area of the law, etc.  Also, six (6)
hours spent on a general discovery motion with only five interrogatories at
issue appears to be excessive. As such, if the court grants sanctions, it will
be in a lowered amount. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’
Motion for Protective Order is tentatively DENIED as the court is reluctant to
grant a protective order limiting discovery in this UD action when Defendants’
counsel has maintained full compliance prior to subsequently turning over
50,000 pages of documents.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Form and Special Interrogatories is Granted in part and requires
oral argument in part. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.¿¿¿¿