 Case Number:  22STCV05186    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
February 10, 2022, Plaintiff Martin Castro Vela (“Vela”) filed this action
against Defendants State of California (“State”), County of Los Angeles
(“County”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), Vesta Housing Solutions, LLC
(“Vesta”), and Does 1-20 for (“Vesta”) for general negligence and premises
liability. 
On
June 27, 2022, Vesta filed an answer. On June 30, 2022, Vesta filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100 for implied
indemnity, comparative contribution, total equitable indemnity, and declaratory
relief. 
On
August 1, 2022, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Vela’s
request. On August 18, 2022, the Court dismissed the County and the State
without prejudice at Vela’s request. 
On
September 6, 2022, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant Bernards Bros. Inc. dba Bernards as Doe 1
(“Bernards”). On
October 12, 2022, Bernards filed an answer. 
On
September 11, 2023, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant TMP
Services, Inc. as Doe 2 (“TMP”). 
On
November 7, 2023, TMP filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Bernard Bros. Inc., Vesta, and Moes 1-20 for indemnity,
contribution, comparative partial indemnity, and declaratory relief—apportionment
of fault.  On November 28, 2023, Bernards
and Vesta filed an answer to TMP’s cross-complaint. 
On
December 18, 2023, TMP amended its cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Preferred
Modular Structures, Inc. as Moe 1 (“Preferred”). 
On
January 25, 2024, the Court dismissed Bernard Bros. Inc. and Vesta from TMP’s
cross-complaint without prejudice at TMP’s request. 
On
February 16, 2024, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant Preferred as
Doe 3. 
On April 22, 2024, Preferred filed an answer to Vela’s complaint. 
On
April 22, 2024, Preferred filed an answer to TMP’s cross-complaint and filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Vela, State, County, City, Vesta, Bernards, TMP, and
Zoes 1-50 for indemnification, contribution, declaratory relief—apportionment
of fault, and comparative partial indemnity. 
On
May 17, 2024, Bernards and Vesta filed an answer to Preferred’s cross-complaint. 
B.   This motion 
On
March 5, 2024, Bernards and Vesta (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion for good
faith settlement determination to be heard on March 27, 2024. The Court
continued the hearing on the motion to June 6, 2024.  On May 20, 2024, Preferred filed an
opposition.  On May 23, 2024, TMP filed
an opposition.  On May 29, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed a reply to TMP’s opposition. 
On May 30, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply to Preferred’s
opposition. 
Trial
is currently set for August 1, 2023. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to find that their settlement with Vela is in good
faith. 
Preferred
and TMP ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6 provides in part: 
“(a) (1) Any party to an action in which it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of
the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or
before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has
commenced. 
“(2) In the alternative, a settling party may give
notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing
of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal
service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good
faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion
within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or
within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. The
notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the manner provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 1005. However, this paragraph shall not apply to
settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into
regarding the case or the terms of the settlement. 
“(b) The issue of the good faith of a settlement may
be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served with the notice of
hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its
discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing. 
“(c) A determination by the court that the settlement
was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault. 
“(d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall
have the burden of proof on that issue. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).) 
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts must
consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6:
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.   The complaint and cross-complaints 
1.    Vela’s complaint 
Vela’s
complaint alleges that on or about February 10, 2021, at 1060 N. Vignes Street
in Los Angeles (“premises”), Defendants State, County, City, Vesta, and Does 1-20
and their agents/employees negligently owned, controlled, supervised, managed,
designed, constructed, maintained and/or operated the premises, causing and/or
allowing a dangerous condition to exist on the property which proximately
caused Plaintiff to fall from a platform while performing services on
Defendants' property, injuring Plaintiff. 
2.    Vesta’s cross-complaint 
Vesta’s
cross-complaint alleges that if Vela sustained injuries as alleged in his
complaint, the injuries were the result of the negligent, intentional, and/or
reckless acts of Cross-Defendants Roes
1-100. 
3.    TMP’s cross-complaint 
TMP’s
cross-complaint alleges that if it is found liable to Vela or any other party
for negligence, indemnity or any other reason arising out of or relating to the
damages allegedly sustained by Vela, then Bernard
Bros. Inc., Vesta, and Moes 1-20 “were also negligent and otherwise at fault in
causing [Vela’s] injuries, if any” and their actions caused Vela’s injuries and
damages. 
4.    Preferred’s cross-complaint 
Preferred’s
cross-complaint alleges that it is not liable for the events described in
Vela’s complaint and that Vela, State, County, City, Vesta, Bernards, TMP, and
Zoes 1-50 were legally responsible for any
damages Vela suffered. 
B.   Moving Defendants’ motion 
1.    Background 
Moving
Defendants were general contractors for a construction project at the Vignes
Street location.  (Motion p. 2.)  Alternatively, Bernards was the general contractor,
Vesta was the contractor, and A&D Fire Sprinklers (“A&D”) was the subcontractor.  (Motion pp. 3-4.) 
Plaintiff
was working at the site as an alarm technician for A&D when he fell off a
platform, suffering injuries.  (Motion p.
3.) 
2.    Settlement terms 
Moving
Defendants have settled with Vela for $943,159.  Zurich Insurance will pay the entire policy limits of
$943,159 (which represents the policy limits of $1,000,000 less diminishing
defense costs). In exchange, Plaintiff
will file a request for dismissal with prejudice of his claims against Moving Defendants.  Plaintiff agrees to
set aside $120,000 of the settlement amount to negotiate the outstanding workers’
compensation lien, which is currently $81,934.32.  American Zurich reserves its rights to assert
its future credit rights against Plaintiff under Labor Code sections 3858 and
3861. The Release does not reduce
American Zurich’s rights to future credit in the workers compensation claim.
The settling parties will bear their own costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees. 
3.    Tech-Bilt factors 
a.   
Moving
Defendants’ proportionate liability 
Citing
Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (Privette), Moving
Defendants argue that Bernards is not liable as the general contractor because Bernards
had no control over the A&D’s work and exercised no supervisory control
over the site work.  In Privette,
our Supreme Court considered whether a landowner could be liable for injuries
sustained when an independent contractor's employee fell off a ladder while
carrying hot tar up to a roof during a roof installation. (See Gonzalez v.
Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 41 (Gonzalez), citing Privette, supra,
5 Cal.4th at pp. 691-692.)  The Court
held that “the doctrine of peculiar risk — which provides that landowners are
vicariously liable for injuries to third parties resulting from the negligence
of independent contractors in performing inherently dangerous work on the
landowners’ property — does not apply to injuries sustained by the contractor's
own employees.” (Ibid., citing Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th
at pp. 691-692.) 
Moving
Defendants also contend that Vesta complied with all workplace safety
guidelines to ensure a safe working environment.  (Motion p. 5.)  Moving Defendants point to the conclusion of
their safety expert John Martinet (“Martinet”), who found that the distance
between the platforms and the ground was 30-36 inches or almost 3 feet.  Martinet concluded that guardrails were not
required because Cal OSHA requires guardrails at a height of 7½ feet and the
federal standard requires guardrails at a height of 6 feet.  Martinet opined that Moving Defendants had
complied with the Cal OSHA standards and Plaintiff was not watching where he
was going.  (Motion p. 4.) 
Last,
Moving Defendants argue the allegedly unsafe condition was open and obvious.  According to Moving Defendants, Plaintiff
was well aware of the construction site and the open nature of the platforms
and was not watching where he was going. 
(Motion p. 5.) 
b.   
Plaintiff’s
damages 
Plaintiff
has incurred $267,998.22 in past medical
expenses.  Plaintiff claims $130,000 in
past lost earnings and over $350,000.00 in future lost earnings.  Although Plaintiff apparently claims future
medical expenses, Moving Defendants have not specified a cost. 
c.   Allocation
of settlement  
Plaintiff
will receive the entire settlement subject to applicable liens. 
d.   Financial
considerations   
Moving
Defendants state that, under the contract between A&D and Vesta and the
prime contract between Vesta and Bernards, A&D is contractually obligated
to provide a defense and indemnity as a subcontractor and to hold the two general contractor harmless. Therefore, when Bernards and Vesta tendered
their defense and requested indemnity from A&D, A&D’s insurer Zurich
accepted the tender. 
Moving
Defendants clarify that the subcontract between Vesta and A&D requires
A&D to indemnify and hold harmless Bernards and Vesta from bodily injury
claims/damages/losses arising out of A&D’s work under the subcontract only
to extent caused by negligent acts of A&D or their employees.  (Motion pp. 4-5.) 
Moving
Defendants have not provided a copy of the subcontract or a copy of Zurich’s
letter accepting Moving Defendant’s tender. 
The Court does not know if Zurich’s acceptance of the tender included any
conditions or limitations. 
 Zurich will pay its entire policy
limits of $943,159 (which represents the policy limits of $1,000,000 less
diminishing defense costs).  (Motion pp. 3,
7.) 
e.   Collusion
or fraud  
Moving
Defendants assert that the settlement is a result of arms-length negotiations
and there is no evidence of fraud or collusion.   (Motion p. 11.) 
C.   Preferred’s opposition 
In
its opposition to Moving Defendants’ motion, Preferred asserts that it did not
appear in the case until April 22, 2024. 
Preferred asks the Court to take the motion off calendar or continue the
hearing at least 120 days to give Preferred time to conduct its investigation. 
In
addition, based on its counsel’s preliminary investigation, Preferred believes
that Moving Defendants have far more insurance than the Zurich policy.  Preferred has attached a “Certificate of
Liability Insurance” for Bernards dated September 7, 2022.  The first page of the certificate lists three
“insurer(s) affording coverage.”  The
first two commercial general liability policies listed have per occurrence limits
of $2 million.  The third policy, which
provides excess liability coverage, has per occurrence and aggregate limits of
$8 million. 
The
second page of the certificate lists three additional policies: (1) excess and umbrella
#2, per occurrence and aggregate limits of $10 million, (2) excess #3, per occurrence and aggregate limits of $10 million,
and (3) excess #4, per occurrence and aggregate limits of $20 million. 
Preferred
also asserts that Plaintiff has hundreds of thousands of dollars in medical
specials and is projected to have even more in the future. 
D.   TMP’s opposition 
Like
Preferred, TMP argues that Moving Defendants have insurance coverage beyond the Zurich policy limits of $943,159.  TMP has provided Moving Defendants’ form interrogatory responses and a certificate of
insurance to support its argument.  TMP contends
that while it is possible that the Zurich policy must be exhausted before the other
policies can be reached, this does not mean that the other policies are not available. 
E.   Moving Defendants’ replies 
In
their replies, Moving Defendants argue that only the Zurich policy is at issue
because A&D and TMP are required to indemnify Moving Defendants under their
subcontracts. 
F.    Analysis 
The
Court takes the motion for good faith settlement determination off calendar.  On December 5, 2023, Moving Defendants settled
the case for $943,159.  On December 29, 2023, Moving Defendants reserved their motion
for good faith settlement for March 27, 2024. 
On February 18, 2024, Moving Defendants served the summons and complaint on Preferred.  Sixteen days later, on March 5, 2024, Moving Defendants
filed their motion for a good faith settlement determination.  Based on this chronology, Preferred has not
had time to conduct a reasonable investigation of the settlement’s good faith. 
Moving
Defendants contend that they are justified in limiting the settlement amount to
the limits of Zurich’s policy because Zurich’s insured, A&D, is
contractually required to indemnify Moving Defendants.  But Moving Defendants have not shown that, aside
from Moving Defendants’ potential liability based on the negligent acts of
A&D or its employees (which Zurich’s policy evidently would cover), they are
not exposed to liability to Plaintiff based on their own negligence.  Moving Defendants’ brief reference to the Privette
line of cases does not resolve this issue. 
For example, Moving Defendants appear to argue that, under Privette,
Bernards is shielded from liability. 
Vesta, on the other hand, faces no liability (according to Moving Defendants)
because Vesta complied with all workplace
safety guidelines to ensure a safe working environment.  If Preferred had received sufficient time to
conduct a reasonable investigation, Preferred might have addressed these
arguments. 
The motion
is off calendar. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court takes off calendar the motion for good faith settlement determination
filed by Defendants Vesta Housing Solutions, LLC, and Bernards Bros. Inc. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.