


[1]
RCALA submits the declaration of its counsel, Matthew S. O’Brien (“O’Brien”),
to demonstrate compliance with statutory meet and confer requirements. O’Brien attests
that on May 10, 2023, he conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel, Chelsea Mikula,
telephonically after he sent a letter outlining the premise for the instant
demurrer. (O’Brien Decl. ¶7.) The O’Brien Declaration is sufficient for
purposes of CCP §
430.41. 

HEARING DATE:                 July
19, 2023
 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCP02927

 
CASE
NAME:                        Allenco Energy, Inc. v. Uduak-Joe Ntuk, et
al.   
 
MOVING
PARTY:                 Defendant, City of
Los Angeles 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:        Plaintiff, Allenco Energy,
Inc. 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        TBD
 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK
                                                                                                                                                            
 
MOTION:                               Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Second Amended Petition 
 
OPPOSITION:                        June 16, 2023 
 
REPLY:                                  July 12, 2023
                                                                                                                                                            
 
TENTATIVE:                          Defendant’s
demurrer is overruled in part and sustained in part.    Defendant is to give notice. 
                                                                                                                                                            
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff Allenco Energy, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) formerly
operated a facility of oil and gas production in the University Park community
of Los Angeles, starting in September 2009, pursuant to an assignment of leases
with the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (“RCALA”), which owns the
property. The facility comprises of 21 oil and gas production wells. Because
three of the 21 wells extended into property owned by the City of Los Angeles
(“City Wells”), these wells are subjected to a separate Lease with the City of
Los Angeles (“City”), which was also assigned to Plaintiff in 2009. Two of the
three City Wells were considered the highest-producing wells. Plaintiff
operated the facility for four years until November 2013 when the surrounding
community raised odor and health concerns, prompting a response from regulators
and public officials. 
 
In 2019, the City advised Plaintiff that the assigned lease
had expired in 2014 because of Plaintiff’s inactivity, and the correspondence
was sent by Respondent and Defendant Uduak-Joe Ntuk (“Ntuk”), who was Defendant’s
then-Petroleum Administrator and is currently the State Oil and Gas Supervisor
in charge of California’s Geologic Energy Management Division (“CalGEM”). 
 
Plaintiff claims that this termination frustrated the
purpose of the lease with Archbishop by making it impossible and financially
infeasible for Plaintiff to operate the subject facility. Thus, Plaintiff
alleges that both leases were terminated simultaneously. As a result of the
termination of both leases, Plaintiff asserts that it is not the current operator
of the subject facility, as defined by Public Resources Code § 3009. Instead, RCALA and the City became the de facto operators pursuant to Public
Resources Code § 3016. However, Plaintiff asserts
that it became a “captive holdover tenant” because both RCALA and City refused
to comply with their obligations as owners/operators of the subject facility. 
 
On April 14, 2021, Plaintiff informed RCALA of its intention
of abandoning the subject facility and ceasing any further maintenance. The
parties contested the issue of who was the proper operator of the subject
facility based on the termination of the subsurface leases. To date, CalGEM
treats Plaintiff as the current operator of the subject lease, requiring Plaintiff
to abide by inspection demands and to maintain the subject facility. 
 
On September 3, 2021, Plaintiff filed a petition against RCALA
and the City.  On September 14, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Petition (“SAP”) alleging ten
causes of action: (1) writ of mandate; (2) declaratory relief; (3) breach of
contract; (4) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
intentional interference with contract and conspiracy to interfere with
contract; (6) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage and
conspiracy to interfere with prospective economic advantage; (7) negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage; (8) inverse condemnation and
violation of the Takings Clause of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the
United States Constitution and Article 1, Section 19 of the California
Constitution; (9) unfair competition in violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200; and (10) unjust enrichment.   
 
Defendant City now demurs to the second, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and tenth causes of action for failure to state
a claim and for uncertainty. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following in
support: 
 
1.    
May 26, 2023 Amended Order to Plug and Abandon
Wells, Decommission Attendant Facilities, and Restore Well Site, No. 1174A
(“Order 1174A”), issued by CalGEM.
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
(Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (c).)
 
Discussion[1]
 
I.               
Legal Authority
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice.  (CCP
§ 430.30 (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose
of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising
questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. . . .”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
518, 525 (Berkley).)  “In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”  (CCP., § 452; see also Stevens v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.)  “When a court evaluates a complaint, the
plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.”  (Duval
v. Board of Trustees (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.)  
The general rule is that the
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts.  (Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)  “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a
matter of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint
set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.) 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are granted only if the
pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.”  (Mahan
v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3,
citing Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regulatory
Auth. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
In addition, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
courts strictly construe a demurrer for uncertainty “because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  
Demurrers do not lie as to
only parts of causes of action where some valid claim is alleged but “must
dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
II.            
Analysis
 
A.    Second Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief 
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for
declaratory relief for failure to state a claim on the ground that in seeking
to have Defendant deemed the operator of the abandoned wells and responsible
for maintaining them, Plaintiff relies on a mistaken interpretation of the
Public Resources Code (“PRC”) that contradicts the explicit language of PRC § 3016.
(Demurrer, 11.) Defendant also demurs on the ground that it cannot act as an
operator because its charter expressly prevents it from engaging in industrial
or commercial enterprise. (Demurrer, 12.) 


Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of action
where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire cause of
action to be sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  
 
Here, because Plaintiff seeks six declarations for relief
regarding Defendant, not just the one about being deemed the operator of the wells
and responsible for maintaining them, the court cannot sustain the demurrer as
to this cause of action. (SAP ¶
176.) 
 
Thus, the court overrules the demurrer on this ground.
 
B.    Third and Fourth Causes of Action:  Breach of Contract and Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
 
Defendant also
demurs to the third and fourth causes of action for failure to state a claim.
 
To state a cause
of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.)  A¿written¿contract must be pled verbatim in the body of the
complaint, be attached to the complaint, and incorporated by reference, or be
pled according to its legal effect.¿¿(Bowden v. Robinson¿(1977) 67
Cal.App.3d 705, 718.)¿¿An allegation of an oral agreement must “set[] forth the
substance of its relative terms.”¿ (Gautier v. General Tel. Co.¿(1965)
234 Cal.App.2d 302, 305.)¿¿¿ 
 
“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it
has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken
judgment.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a
mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the
same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of
action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is
actually stated … [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id.
at pp. 1394-1395.)
 
Defendant City states that in paragraphs 203 and 205
of the SAP, Plaintiff idled its facility and kept the wells inactive since
November 2013 in direct violation of the City lease agreement while Paragraph
15 of the City lease agreement contains a limited excuse for idleness relating
to acts of G-d and the like, or actual “orders…of a governmental agency.” (Demurrer,
12.) 
 
(SAP ¶ 204.)
 
According to the SAP, Paragraph 15 of the 1963
subsurface lease excuses performance: 
 
“[I]n part or in whole, by
strikes, lockouts, labor disturbances, acts of God, unavoidable accidents,
laws, ordinances, restrictions, rules, regulations or orders of any Federal,
State, municipal or other governmental agency including, but not limited to,
failure or refusal to grant land use or operating licenses or permits, or to
designate or approve production units, acts of war or conditions arising out of
or attributable to war, shortage of necessary material, equipment or labor, or
restrictions in or limitations upon the use thereof, delays in transportation
or other matters beyond the control of Lessee, whether similar to the matters
herein specifically enumerated or not . . . . This lease shall remain in full
force and effect during any such suspension of any of Lessee’s obligation, and
for a reasonable time thereafter, provided that after the removal of the cause
or causes preventing or hindering the performance of such obligation, Lessee
subject to the other provisions of this lease, diligently commences or resumes
the performance of such obligation.
 
(SAP ¶ 204.)
 
Defendant City argues that the SAP alleges only that Plaintiff
idled the wells in response to general “complaints” and alleged “requests” by
regulators and public officials and neither of these general complaints or
regulatory requests meet the limited exceptions of Paragraph 15 as quoted in
the SAP. Defendant argues that there was no excuse for Plaintiff’s failure to
operate the wells from November 2013 to May 31, 2016, and Plaintiff breached
the lease. (Demurrer, 12.) 
 
The SAP alleges that on January 7, 2014, the city
sought a permanent injunction to prevent Plaintiff from operating the Facility
(the “Civil Action”). (SAP ¶ 70.) The case was settled on May 31, 2016, and
Plaintiff agreed to no resume operations until the Facility complied with all
health and safety regulations. (SAP ¶ 72.) Plaintiff also agreed not to resume
operations until it achieved compliance with all health and safety regulations.
(Id.) Therefore, a triable issue of fact exists as to whether the Civil
Action allowed Plaintiff to idle the wells while the Civil Action was pending as
permitted by Paragraph 15 of the 1963 subsurface lease. The SAP sufficiently
alleges that contrary to Paragraph 15 of the lease, Defendant City breached the
lease by terminating the lease despite the lease remaining in full force and
effect during the periods of suspension. (SAP ¶ 206.) Moreover, whether the
Civil Action excused Plaintiff’s performance remains a factual dispute not
subject to demurrer. 
 
Thus, the court
overrules the demurrer as to this cause of action. 
 
Because the breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing cause of action do not go beyond the statement
of contract breach, the court also overrules the demurrer as to that cause of
action. 
 
 
 
C.    Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Tenth Causes of Action: Intentional
Interference with Contract and Conspiracy to Interfere with Contract,
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage and Conspiracy to
Interfere with Prospective Economic Advantage, Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage, and Unjust Enrichment
 
Defendant
also demurs to the fifth, sixth, seventh, and tenth causes of action for
failure to state a claim. Defendant argues that the SAP improperly asserts tort
causes of action against it in violation of the Tort Claims Act and its
immunities. (Demurrer, 13.) 
 
The law states all government
tort liability must be based on statute. Gov. Code § 815 provides:
“Except as otherwise provided by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for
an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public
entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a).)

 
To state a cause of action every
fact essential to the existence of statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty. (Susman v. City
of Los Angeles (1969) 269 Cal.App.2d 803, 809.) Duty cannot be alleged
simply by stating “defendant had a duty under the law”; that is a conclusion of
law, not an allegation of fact. The facts showing the existence of the claimed
duty must be alleged. (Id.; see also Rubinow v. County of San
Bernardino (1959) 169 Cal.App.2d 67, 71.) Since the duty of a governmental
agency can only be created by statute or “enactment,” the statute or
“enactment” claimed to establish the duty must at the very least be identified.
 
Defendant
City argues that Plaintiff did not allege any mandatory duty to act and that
its employees are immune by their discretionary acts. (Demurrer, 14, 15.) In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that its tort claims do not center on a duty to
act by Plaintiff. (Opposition, 12.) Plaintiff further argues that by virtue of
its status as the owner and de facto operator of the City Wells, Plaintiff had
a duty to assume its statutory obligations to maintain those wells in
compliance with the requirements of PRC. (Opposition, 12-13.) 
 
As the SAP
does not allege the existence of a statutory duty regarding its tort claims
against Defendant City, the court sustains the demurrer to the fifth, sixth,
and seventh causes of action.   
 
The court notes that the tenth
cause of action, unjust enrichment, is not a tort or cause of action.  “[T]here is no cause of action in California
for unjust enrichment.  The phrase ‘Unjust
Enrichment’ does not describe a theory of recovery, but an effect: the result
of a failure to make restitution under circumstances where it is equitable to
do so. [Citation.] Unjust enrichment is a ‘general principle, underlying
various legal doctrines and remedies, rather than a remedy itself.’
[Citation.]  It is synonymous with restitution.”  (Melchior v. New Line Cinema (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [internal quotations omitted].)  “As a matter of law, an unjust enrichment
claim does not lie where the parties have an enforceable express contract.” (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370.).
 
As the
SAP states that an express contract existed between Defendant City and RCALA
regarding operations of the wells, Plaintiff cannot maintain a claim for unjust
enrichment as a matter of law. (SAP ¶ 62.) 
The demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained without leave to
amend.  
 
D.   
Eighth
Cause of Action: Inverse Condemnation and Violation of the Takings Clause of
the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution and Article 1,
Section 19 of the California Constitution
 
Defendant demurs to the eighth
cause of action for failure to state a claim. 
 
1.    
Inverse
Condemnation 
 
The elements of inverse condemnation are (1) Plaintiff owned
the real property; (2) the property was taken or damaged; (3) the cause was a
public project; and (4) damage to private property substantially caused by an
inherent risk presented by the deliberate design, construction, or maintenance
of the public improvement. (Cal. State Automobile Assn. v. City of Palo Alto
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 474, 480.)
 
2.     Takings
 
“[W]hether a particular restriction will be rendered invalid by
the government’s failure to pay for any losses proximately caused by it depends
largely upon the particular circumstances [in that case.  In engaging in
these essentially ad hoc, factual inquiries, the Court's decisions have
identified several factors that have particular significance.  The
economic impact of the regulation on the claimant and, particularly, the extent
to which the regulation has interfered with distinct investment-backed expectations
are, of course, relevant considerations.  A ‘taking’
may more readily be found when the interference with property can be
characterized as a physical invasion by government, than when interference
arises from some public program adjusting the benefits and burdens of economic
life to promote the common good.”  (Penn Cent. Transp. Co. v. City of
New York (1978) 438 U.S. 104, 124.)   
 
Diminution in property value, standing alone, cannot establish a taking. 
(See Penn Cent. Transpo. Co. v. City of New York, supra, 438 U.S.
104 at 131.)  “As a general matter, so long as a land use regulation does
not constitute a physical taking or deprive a property owner of all viable economic use of the
property, such a restriction does not violate the takings
clause insofar as it governs a property owner's future use of his or her
property, except in the unusual circumstance in which the use restriction is
properly found to go ‘too far’ and to constitute a ‘regulatory taking’
under the ad hoc, multifactored test discussed by the United States Supreme
Court in Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City (1978) 438 U.S.
104.”  (Cal. Building Industry Assn. v. City of San Jose (2015) 61
Cal.4th 435, 462.)   
 
Defendant City demurs on the ground that the SAP does not
and cannot assert any public project, any physical or even regulatory taking of
private property, or any inherent risk and substantial causation on the part of
a public project. (Demurrer, 17.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that by
unfairly terminating Plaintiff’s leases and seeking to shut down its business
at the facility so that Defendant could acquire the RCALA’s property for
municipal purposes, Defendant deprived Plaintiff of a valuable property right
and thereby committed an unconstitutional taking. (Opposition, 14.) Plaintiff
further argues that the Defendant unilaterally terminated Plaintiff’s leases
and effectively ousted it from the site, thereby depriving it of any ability to
make economic use of the facility. (Opposition, 15.) 
 
“Eminent Domain
Law recognizes that, generally, a lessee is entitled to ‘compensation
for the value of his leasehold interest [taken], if any, and any of his
property taken’ therewith, including ‘goodwill.’” (City of Vista v. Fielder (1996) 13 Cal.4th 612, 616
[internal citations omitted]; see also CCP § 1265.150.) Therefore, Plaintiff
may bring an inverse condemnation claim despite not being the owner of the
Facility to recover the value of its lease interest. 
 
To plead
inverse condemnation, it is sufficient for Plaintiff to plead that the City’s
conduct significantly invaded or appropriated the use and enjoyment of the
property. (See San Diego Metropolitan Transit Development Bd.
v. Handlery Hotel, Inc. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 517, 530.) Here,
the SAP sufficiently alleges that the Defendant City’s action prohibited
Plaintiff’s “extraction expectations and eliminated the value of [Plaintiff’s]
investment, property, and mineral interest.” (SAP ¶ 249.) This was done via the
City’s enforcement of its ordinances, rules, and regulations which restricted
Plaintiff’s ability to use and enjoy the Facility and interfered with
Plaintiff’s reasonable expectation of earning revenues from the investment in
the Facility and its mineral interests. (Id.)
 
However,
Plaintiff is also required to plead that the damage to its interest in the
Facility was caused by an inherent risk associated with the public entity’s
conduct that could have been mitigated had Plaintiff complied with its lease
obligations. (See City of Oroville v. Superior Court
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 1091, 1111.) For example, in City of Oroville, the
California Supreme Court found that although the design, operation, and maintenance
of the sewer system caused sewage to emerge at the property, the damage to the
property was not substantially caused by the city’s sewer system but by the
property’s owner’s failure to install a blackwater valve. (Id.  at 1111.)
 
Yet
we cannot say the damage was substantially caused by that system when WGS
failed to fulfill a responsibility to install a backwater valve, and that
reasonable requirement would have prevented or substantially diminished the
risk of the mishap that spawned this case. The backup of sewage into WGS's
offices was not the necessary result or unavoidable consequence of any risk
posed by the sewer system. And the City
acted reasonably in adopting the sewer design and presuming private property
owners would comply with the law by installing and maintaining backwater valve
devices to prevent sewage backups into private property. The City is not liable in inverse
condemnation. 
 
(Id.) 
 
Therefore, to sustain a cause of action
for inverse condemnation, Plaintiff must plead facts that allege Defendant
City’s enforcement of its ordinances, rules, and regulations posed an inherent
risk that was not reasonably avoidable in order to prevail on its claim. Therefore, the demurrer to the eighth cause of action is sustained
with leave to amend. 
 
E.        Demurrer due to Uncertainty
 
A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty may only be sustained when a
defendant cannot reasonably determine to what he or she is required to respond.
(Id.)
 
Defendant City
demurrers to the SAP in its entirety on the basis that the SAP refers to
several exhibits but fails to attach any exhibits despite attaching exhibits to
its previous petition. The court overrules the demurrer to the SAP on the basis
of uncertainty because Defendant City can obtain the exhibits referenced in the
SAP via discovery. However, as the court has given Plaintiff leave to amend,
the next amended complaint must include the exhibits referenced in its
pleading. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled in part and sustained in
part. 
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled. 
 
The demurrer to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,
and eighth causes of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
The demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.  
 
Defendant is to give notice.


