 Case Number:  22STCV19061    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, September 29, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV19061
CASE NAME:                        VIJ Hirsch v. Los
Angeles Unified School District
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff VJ Hirsch 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Fourth Amended
Complaint with Motion to Strike
OPPOSITION:                        12 September 2023
REPLY:                                  21
September 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant
LAUSD’s demurrer to the 4AC is sustained without leave to amend as to the first
through fourth causes of action and sustained with leave to amend as to the
fifth through eighth causes of action. Defendant’s Motion to strike is denied
as moot. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This
action arises out of the employment of VJ Hirsch (“Plaintiff”) with Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) as a math teacher. Plaintiff
alleges that LAUSD hired him in November 2003 and that he has worked for San
Fernando High School, Reed Middle School, Mount Gleason Middle School, Van Nuys
Middle School, and Roy Romer Middle School.  
 
Plaintiff
alleges that from about mid-2019 to the end of 2020, Plaintiff requested
certain accommodations from the Principal for Reed Middle School, Robyn
Freidman, and the Principal of Van Nuys Middle School, Christina Serrano.
Plaintiff alleges he faced adverse employment actions after requesting these
accommodations, including an unexpected transfer with a start date on a
religious holiday, monitoring of his classroom, etc. Plaintiff alleges he
requested accommodations yet again on March 10, 2021, and after this further
request, his requests for transfer were ignored, Defendant requested that he clarify
the hours he worked, and his requests for accommodation were ignored. On
November 18, 2021, Plaintiff alleges he was provided a cease and desist letter
by LAUSD and further alleges he was placed in “teacher jail.”  
Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleged the following causes of action: (1)
discrimination in violation of the Fair Housing Employment Act (“FEHA”), (2)
harassment in violation of FEHA, (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA, (4)
failure to prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation in violation of
FEHA, (5) failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of FEHA,
(6) failure to engage in a good faith interactive process in violation of FEHA,
(7) whistleblower retaliation in violation of California Labor Code § 1102.5,
and (8) retaliation in violation of California Labor Code § 98.6.  
 
On
October 28, 2022, Defendant’s demurrer was sustained to the entirety of the
First Amended Complaint and Plaintiff was granted leave to amend.  
 
On
November 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
alleging identical causes of action. On February 8, 2023, Defendant’s
demurrer was sustained to the entirety of the SAC and Plaintiff was granted
leave to amend. 
 
On
February 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) alleging identical causes of action. On May 3, 2023, the demurrer
to the TAC was sustained with leave to amend. 
 
On
June 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”) alleging
identical causes of action. 
 
LAUSD
now demurrers to each cause of action in the 4AC. Plaintiff, acting in pro per,
opposes the motion. 
 
request
for JUDICIAL notice
 
The Court may
take judicial notice of records of any court of record of the United States.
(Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may only judicially notice the
existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky v.
Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.)
 
Defendant LAUSD requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
LAUSD’s propounded Requests For Admissions, Set Two
(including documents to be admitted as genuine) a true and correct copy of
which is attached as Exhibit “1” and authenticated by the declaration of
Anthony J. Bejarano, submitted concurrently with this Request for Judicial
Notice and LAUSD’s demurrer to the Complaint.
 
2)    
Plaintiff’s Responses to LAUSD’s Requests For
Admissions, Set Two, a true and correct copy of which is attached as Exhibit
“2” and authenticated by the declaration of Anthony J. Bejarano, submitted
concurrently with this Request for Judicial Notice and LAUSD’s demurrer to the
Complaint.
 
3)    
Attached as Exhibit “3” are true and correct copies of
Declaration of VJ Hirsch dated June 22, 2023.
 
Defendant LAUSD asserts that the court may take
judicial notice of the discovery Requests for Admission and Plaintiff’s
Declaration pursuant to Tucker v. Pacific Bell Mobile
Services (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 201, 219, fn. 11, wherein the Appeal
Court held that even when ruling on a demurrer “a court may take judicial
notice of a party's admissions or concessions in cases where the admission “
‘cannot reasonably be controverted,’ ” such as in answers to interrogatories or
requests for admission, or in affidavits and declarations filed on the party's
behalf.” 
Therefore, the Defendant’s request for judicial notice is
granted.
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Summary
of Allegations in the 4AC
 
The
4AC alleges various instances of unlawful conduct by Defendant LAUSD, including
various forced transfers “in June 2017 to Leon Noble Elementary
School; August 2019 transfer to Romer Middle School; October 2019 transfer to
Van Nuys Middle School (which such transferred occurred on a Jewish Holiday);
March 2020 transfer to Mount Gleason Middle School; August 2020 transfer to
Reed Middle School; October 2021 transfer to San Fernando High School (which
PLAINTIFF had initially applied for a promotion at San Fernando High School and
PLAINTIFF was interviewed, selected and slated to begin the position only for
it to be curtailed as PLAINTIFF never returned and was reassigned to home
before he could begin the position where he currently remains as he awaits his
faith..).” (4AC ¶ 30.) 
 
The
4AC also alleges that LAUSD failed to engage in the interactive process and
failed to provide Plaintiff with reasonable accommodations for his disabilities
across his various transfers. (4AC ¶¶ 17, 19, 21.) 
 
On
June 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed this Complaint. Defendant LAUSD now demurs to
the entire 4AC. 
 
B.        Some of
Plaintiff’s Claims are Time-Barred
 
Defendant
LAUSD asserts that pursuant to Government Code § 12965(c)(1)(c), any claims
filed in Plaintiff’s May 20, 2020, DFEH Charge are time-barred because
Plaintiff failed to file this action within one year after he received the May
21, 2021, right-to-sue letter. (RJN Ex. 1, 2.) 
In other words, Plaintiff had until May 21, 2022, to file a Complaint
for claims asserted in the May 21, 2020, DFEH Charge. 
 
“FEHA claims are governed by two statutory deadlines:
section 12960 and section 12965.” (Acuna v. San Diego Gas &
Electric Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1411.)
On January 1, 2020, the Legislature enlarged the time to file a FEHA claim from
one year to three years from the date of the challenged conduct as outlined in
Labor Code section 12960. (Ramirez
v. Charter Communications, Inc.
(2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 365, 374, fn. 3.) However, the second statute of
limitations under Government Code section 12965 remains intact. “Section 12965 concerns a separate
statutory deadline applicable after the DFEH
issues a right-to-sue notice.”
(Acuna, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p. 1413 [italics original].)
Under Government Code section 12965, Plaintiff had one year from the date he
received the May 21, 2021, right-to-sue letter to file this action, or else the
claims are time-barred unless an exception applies. (Id.)
 
Pursuant
to Defendant’s Request for Admission Nos. 23-27, Plaintiff submitted three DFEH
Charges. (RJN Ex. 1, 2.) Plaintiff submitted the first DFEH Charge on May 20,
2020, and received the right-to-sue letter on May 21, 2021. (Id.)
Plaintiff submitted a second DFEH Charge on June 29, 2021, and received the
right-to-sue letter on those charged on June 2, 2022. (Id.) Plaintiff
submitted a third DFEH on May 10, 2022, and received a right-to-sue letter on
April 18, 2022. Since Plaintiff filed this action on June 10, 2022, rather than
on or before May 21, 2022, Plaintiff’s claims asserted in the May 20, 2020,
DFEH Charge are time-barred because Plaintiff failed to file a Complaint
related to those charges within one-year of when he received the right-to-sue
letter (which was May 21, 2021). (RJN Ex. 1.)
 
Consequently,
Plaintiff’s claims relating to the October 2019 incident wherein he was denied
a religious accommodation requesting one day off to observe the Jewish Holiday;
subsequent transfer to another school; denial of promotion to School
Improvement Grant position (See Complaint ¶ 18); and denial of accommodations
in November of 2019 and February 4, 2020; are all time-barred due to
Plaintiff’s failure to file a Complaint within one year of receiving the May
21, 2021 DFEH right-to-sue letter. (RJN Ex. 1, 2.)
 
Defendant
LAUSD does not deny that claims asserted in the June 29, 2021, and May 10, 2022,
DFEH Charges are timely asserted. 
 
C.
       Plaintiff’s Surviving FEHA Claims 
 
Plaintiff’s June 29, 2021, DFEH Charge alleges only one
incident, occurring on “September 21, 2020, through current” related to actual
or perceived discrimination in the denial of the good faith interactive process
and reasonable accommodations. (RJN Ex. 1, 2.) The May 10, 2022, DFEH Charge
alleges incidents related to disability and age discrimination, denial of a promotion,
receiving a “ceases and desist” letter preventing Plaintiff from discussing the
matter, denial of work opportunities or assignments, reprimands, denial of reasonable
accommodation due to disabilities, harassment, and retaliation. (RJN Ex. 1.2.)
 
                        i.          First Cause of
Action-Discrimination under FEHA 
 
To
establish a prima facie case for discrimination under the FEHA, a plaintiff
must show that” (1)
he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he
sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered
an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an
available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.”
(Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
355.) FEHA liability for discrimination requires proof that
the discrimination was a substantial factor in an employment decision. (Harris
v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 232.)  
 
Plaintiff
alleges he was “a member of a protected class within the meaning of California
Government Code §§ 12940(a), 12926(m) because of PLAINTIFF’s ancestry,
religious creed - includes dress and grooming practices, disability (physical
or mental), medical condition (cancer or genetic characteristic), other, family
care or medical leave (cfra).” (4AC ¶ 40.) Plaintiff’s DFEH Charge alleged
disability and age discrimination but fails to specify what physical or mental
disability Plaintiff has other than that it falls within the meaning of
Government Code § 12926(m). 
 
As
to the discrimination Plaintiff suffered, Plaintiff alleges “DEFENDANTS
unlawfully discriminated against PLAINTIFF, as previously alleged, on the basis
of his ancestry, religious creed - includes dress and grooming practices,
disability (physical or mental), medical condition (cancer or genetic
characteristic), other, and family care or medical leave (cfra).” (4AC ¶ 41.)
Specifically, Defendants discriminated by “denying hire or promotion,
reprimanding, suspending, demoting, asking impermissible non-job-related
questions, denying any employment benefit or privilege, denying reasonable
accommodation for a disability, denying accommodation for religious beliefs,
denying work opportunities or assignments, denying and forcing to transfer,
denying family care or medical leave (cfra) him amongst other things. As stated
above PLAINTIFF requested accommodations numerous times with physician’s notes
submitted each and every time. Rather than accommodate PLAINTIFF, not only did
DEFENDANTS NOT accommodate PLAINTIFF, but they also continuously transferred
PLAINTIFF (including four transfer within a short one year span), failed to
accommodate PLAINTIFF, prevented PLAINTIFF from being promoted, stripped
PLAINTIFF the ability to teach summer school classes and earned additional
income and eventually placed suspended PLAINTIFF further curtailing his ability
to move up in his career, career development, teaching summer school and after
school tutoring and a host of other opportunities.” (4AC ¶ 42.) 
 
First, a transfer is not an adverse employment action when it is into a
comparable position that does not result in substantial and tangible harm.” (McRae
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th
377, 393.) The 4AC fails to allege that
Plaintiff’s transfers to various schools were demotions or resulted in tangible
harm to Plaintiff. As discussed above, Plaintiff’s discrimination claim based
on the denial of the School Improvement Grant position in October 2019 is
time-barred because Plaintiff presented the claim in his May 20, 2020, DFEH
Charge but failed to file a Complaint within one-year. (RJN Ex. 1, 2; 4AC ¶
18.) 
 
However,
Plaintiff also asserts he was denied the Restorative Justice position, a claim
timely asserted in his May 20, 2022, DFEH Charge. (4AC ¶ 28; RJN Ex. 1, 2.)
Plaintiff alleges he was offered the position, but on November 18, 2021,
Plaintiff was reassigned to home where he remains and is unable to obtain any
promotions or advance his career. (4AC ¶ 28.) The court agrees that Plaintiff’s
denial of a promotion to the Restorative Justice position and reassignment to
home constitute an adverse employment action. Nevertheless, Plaintiff fails to
allege sufficient facts to establish prima facie case discrimination. 
 
The
4AC alleges Plaintiff is a member of the Jewish religion and was denied a
religious accommodation in October 2019. (4AC ¶ 17) This claim is time-barred
because Plaintiff presented the claim in his May 20, 2020, DFEH Charge but
failed to file a Complaint based on May 20, 2020, DFEH charge within one year
of receiving the right-to-sue letter. (RJN Ex. 1, 2.) Plaintiff’s Complaint is
otherwise devoid of any other facts to show that Plaintiff was discriminated
against by being demoted and sent home due to his religion or ancestry. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that he was denied a reasonable accommodation due to his disability,
but Plaintiff fails to allege if the disability was mental or physical and that
he was discriminated against based on the unspecified disability. In other
words, Plaintiff fails to allege a causal connection between the disability and
LAUSD decision to deny Plaintiff a promotion and demote him home. (4AC ¶ 28.) In
a conclusory fashion, the 4AC alleges that Principal Friedman was transferred
out and Principal Coley took over and denied Plaintiff a promotion because
Local Superintendent Andres Chait had “animus towards PLAINTIFF” but the 4AC is
silent as to facts that show Mr. Chait and Ms. Coley acted with animus in
denying Plaintiff the promotion and demoting him and that said conduct was due
to Plaintiff’s role as a member of specific
protected classes. The 4AC is similarly devoid of factual allegations to show
that Plaintiff suffered adverse employment actions due to his role as a member
of a protected class and instead makes only conclusory allegations. (See Interior Systems,
Inc. v. Del E. Webb Corp. (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 312, 316 [legal conclusions without facts
are to be disregarded].)
 
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained. As this is Plaintiff’s
fourth amended complaint and Plaintiff has yet again failed to make specific
factual allegations to support the first cause of action, leave to amend is
denied. 
 
                        ii.
        Second Cause of Action –
Harassment
 
To establish a prima facie case of¿harassment, a
plaintiff must show (1) he was an employee; (2)¿he was subjected to unwanted
harassing conduct based on her protected status; (3) the harassing conduct was
severe or pervasive; (4) a reasonable person in the employee's circumstances
would have considered the work environment to be hostile or abusive; (5) he
considered the work environment to be hostile or abusive; (6) that a supervisor
engaged in the conduct and/or the employer knew or should have¿known of the
conduct and failed to take immediate and appropriate corrective action; (7) the
employee was harmed; and (8) the conduct was a substantial factor in causing
the employee's harm.¿(Thompson v. City of Monrovia¿(2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 860, 876)
 
Plaintiff alleges that he experienced a hostile work
environment because he was continuously transferred, denied accommodations, denied
promotions, and placed “in
teacher jail further curtailing his ability to move up in his career.” (4AC ¶ 53.)
All these actions “taken together” “indubitably made the work environment to be
hostile or abusive for PLAINTIFF.” (4AC ¶ 53.) 
 
In a conclusory fashion,
Plaintiff asserts he is a member of a protected class due to “ancestry, religious
creed – includes dress and grooming practices, disability (physical or mental),
medical condition (cancer or genetic characteristic), other, family care or
medical leave (cfra), including but not limited to, filing complaints, and
reporting misconduct and unlawful harassment” (4AC ¶ 52.) These conclusory
allegations are devoid of facts that show Plaintiff was subjected to harassment
based on his membership in a protected category. The 4AC fails to allege facts
to show that the forced transfers were due to Plaintiff’s membership in a
protected class and were sufficiently severe or pervasive to constitute
actionable harassment. In fact, Plaintiff admits he interviewed for and
accepted the position at Reed Middle School, resulting in his transfer, and
that he voluntarily transferred to San Fernando High School (4AC ¶¶ 21, 28.)
Moreover, as explained in more detail below, Plaintiff also admits that he
received accommodations, but Plaintiff considered the accommodations to be insufficient.
The 4AC lacks factual allegations regarding comments or actions made by
specific LAUSD employees that show that the transfers, denial of
accommodations, and promotions were due to Plaintiff’s membership in a
protected class.  
 
Accordingly, the court finds
that the second cause of action is insufficiently pled and sustains the
demurrer to the second cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
                        iii.
       Third Cause of Action-Retaliation
in Violation of the FEHA
 
To establish a prima facie case
of retaliation under FEHA, Plaintiff must prove that “(1) he or she engaged in
a protected activity; (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action; and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36
Cal.4th 1028, 1042 [interna quotations omitted].)
 
LAUSD alleges that Plaintiff
fails to allege a causal connection between “the many adverse actions taken
against Plaintiff” and Plaintiff’s engagement in a protected activity. (4AC ¶
17.) Plaintiff alleges he engaged in the following protected activities:
“requesting or using disability related accommodations, requesting or using
religious accommodations, requestion of using family care or medical leave
(FMLA/CFRA), participating as a witness in a discrimination or harassment
complaint, and complaining to DEFENDANTS about inappropriate conduct and
activities which PLAINTIFF had reasonable cause to believe were in violation of
a state and/or federal law.” (4AC ¶ 66.) 
 
As explained above, Plaintiff’s
claim based on the denial of a request for religious accommodation in October
2019 is time-barred. (RJN Ex. 1, 2.) The 4AC fails to state that there were
other instances in which Plaintiff requested and was denied religious
accommodations after October 2019. The 4AC is also devoid of any facts as to whether
Plaintiff was denied family care or medical leave, but asserts he experienced
“retaliatory treatment” due to using family care or medical leave without facts
as to when and how such retaliation occurred. The 4AC also fails to allege
facts as to when Plaintiff participated as a witness in a discrimination
complaint and how he experienced retaliation. The 4AC fails to state what
inappropriate conduct and activities he reported, to who, and when the
reporting occurred.  
 
The 4AC also fails to allege
facts to connect Plaintiff’s denial of the Restorative Justice position by Ms.
Coley and his reassignment to his home to Plaintiff requests for reasonable
accommodations. A temporal causal connection cannot be assumed because
Plaintiff does not state when he was offered the Restorative Justice position,
when he was denied the position, and when Ms. Coley knew or became aware that
Plaintiff had requested accommodations. Without these facts and without a
specific allegation attesting to that fact, the court cannot infer that
Plaintiff’s denial of promotion and subsequent demotion were motivated by Plaintiff’s
requests for accommodations or perceived disability. First, the 4AC is unclear
as to what disability Plaintiff has or was perceived to have had. Secondly,
Plaintiff states that the Restorative Justice position was offered by Ms. Fores
but later in the same paragraph states it was offered to him by Principal Friedman.
(4AC ¶ 28; pp. 11:10-12, 12:1-3.) Moreover, it is unclear who ordered that Plaintiff
be reassigned home and their motive for the reassignment.  
 
For the reasons stated above,
the court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action without leave to
amend. 
 
iv.        Fourth Cause of Action – Failure to Prevent Discrimination,
Harassment and Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA
 
The FEHA makes it unlawful for an employer “to fail to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov. Code,
§ 12940(k).
“[B]ecause the statute
does not create a stand-alone tort, the employee has no cause of action for a
failure to investigate unlawful harassment or retaliation, unless actionable
misconduct occurred.” (Thompson, supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at p. 880; see also Dickson
v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1316; Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1021; Trujillo
v. North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 288.) 
Since
the demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action has been
sustained, Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action also fails and the demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
v.         Fifth
and Sixth Cause of Action – Disability Discrimination: Failure to Make
Reasonable Accommodations & Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in
Violation of the FEHA
As to the fifth
cause of action, the elements of a claim for
failure to provide reasonable accommodation of a disability are (1) the
plaintiff had a disability within the meaning of FEHA, (2) the plaintiff is
qualified to perform the essential functions of the positions, and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability. (Scotch,
supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1009-1010.) The sixth cause of action is
for failure to engage in the interactive process, which requires that Plaintiff
“identify a reasonable
accommodation that would have been available at the time the interactive process
should have occurred.” (Id. at p. 1018.) 
 
The 4AC states that Plaintiff made prior requests for accommodations
that were ignored but fails to state facts as to when those requests were made
and if they were included in his May 20, 2020, DFEH Charge, and are
time-barred. (4AC ¶ 17.) However, Plaintiff specifically states that, on or
about January 9, 2020, he presented to Ms. Serrano, Principal at Van Nuys
Middle School, with his disabilities and requested accommodations. (4AC ¶ 20.) Plaintiff
asserts that his request for an interactive meeting was ignored, and that Ms.
Serrano did not begin the interactive process meeting until about February 27,
2020. (4AC ¶ 21.) Plaintiff further admits that Ms. Serrano provided “some
accommodations” but fails to specify what those accommodations were. (Id.)
The court has been unable to find any authority that a one-month delay in
holding an interactive process meeting is sufficient to show breach of Government
Code § 12940(n). There is no evidence that LAUSD violated Government Code §
12940(n) while Plaintiff was at Van Nuys Middle School. 
 
“Where a necessary
accommodation is obvious, where the employee requests a specific and available
reasonable accommodation that the employer fails to provide, or where an
employer participates in a good faith interactive process and identifies a
reasonable accommodation but fails to provide it, a plaintiff may sue under
[Government Code] section 12940(m).” (Nadaf-Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus
Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 983.) The
4AC fails to identify what accommodations were provided to Plaintiff while at
Van Nuys Middle School and what specific accommodations were not provided.  All that Plaintiff states is that “some accommodations
were provided” and this is insufficient to show LAUSD failed to provide reasonable
accommodations in violation of Government Code section Code § 12940(m). (4AC ¶
21.)
 
The 4AC
alludes that after being at Van Nuys Middle School, Plaintiff was involuntarily
transferred to Mount Gleason Middle School and then accepted a position at Reed
Middle School, requiring a new request for reasonable accommodations. (4AC ¶
21.) While at Reed Middle School, on September 21, 2020, Plaintiff submitted to
Ms. Friedman his documented disabilities and requests for accommodations. (4AC
¶ 22.) Ms. Friedman held “a new interactive process” meeting “approximately 9
days later.” (4AC ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges he emailed Ms. Friedman and Disability Coordinator Lemus
multiple times about his requested accommodations, but Lemus requested more information,
and a response was not provided until October 21, 2020. (4AC ¶ 24.) 
On October 21, 2020 PLAINTIFF finally received a response
from Lemus but such response was not only confusing but seemed to intentionally
dodge the issue especially when what PLAINTIFF was requesting was identical to
that of what PLAINTIFF requested from and for the most part received from Ms.
Serrano while at Van Nuys Middle School.
 
(4AC ¶ 25.) 
It is unclear if Plaintiff did
in fact receive accommodations on October 21, 2020, and what accommodations
were denied such as to show that the accommodations were reasonable and obvious
to LAUSD and LAUSD failed to provide them. (See Nadaf-Rhrov, supra,
83 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 983.) Plaintiff asserts that on January 21, 2021, Ms.
Friedman set up a zoom meeting and conducted an interactive process meeting,
but that Ms. Friedman ignored Plaintiff’s accommodations in setting up the
meeting. (4AC ¶ 26.)  “The
‘interactive process’ required by the FEHA is an informal process with the
employee or the employee's representative, to attempt to identify a reasonable
accommodation that will enable the employee to perform the job effectively.
[Citation.] Ritualized discussions are not necessarily required. [Citation.]” (Wilson v. County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185,
1195.) For purposes of Government Code § 1940(m), what matters is the fact that
the employer engaged in the interactive process not whether the meeting took
place according to Plaintiff’s requested accommodations, since the very purpose
of the meeting is to ascertain what reasonable accommodations the employer is
able to provide. 
Moreover, case law holds that
when a reasonable accommodation is provided, it precludes the employer from
being held liable for failure to engage in the interactive process. (Wilson, supra,
169 Cal.App.4th at p. 1195; Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215, 229; Watkins v. Ameripride Services (9th Cir. 2004) 375 F.3d
821, 829.) Therefore,
the material allegations in the 4AC should specify facts that show that
Plaintiff was denied specific reasonable accommodations that were available. According
to the 4AC, the January 21, 2021, meeting resulted in Plaintiff being assigned
a “chaperon” as an accommodation, an accommodation that Plaintiff did not
request nor want, and the chaperon was removed at Plaintiff’s request on April
20, 2021. (4AC ¶ 27.) Plaintiff fails to identify what other alternative reasonable
accommodation he requested that were denied by LAUSD. 
 
Without
more facts, the court cannot ascertain if LAUSD failed to timely and in good
faith engage in the interactive process while Plaintiff was at Reed Middle
School, and whether LAUSD did in fact provide alternative accommodations, and
if those accommodations were reasonable. “[T]he fact that an employer took some
steps to work with an employee to identify reasonable accommodations does not
absolve the employer of liability under section 12940(n). If the employer is
responsible for a later breakdown in the process, it may be held liable.” (Nadaf-Rahrov,
supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 985.) 
 
In October 2021,
Plaintiff was transferred to San Fernando High School where he had to reinitiate
the interactive process by notifying Assistance Principal Erin Cuenca of his disability
and requested accommodations. (4AC ¶¶ 28, 30.) “In response, Ms. Cuenca
authorized the purchase of an enhanced hearing device to assist in
communication with radios during campus supervision.” (4AC ¶ 28.) Thus, an
accommodation was provided but no other facts are provided as to whether
Plaintiff requested other reasonable accommodations that were denied. 
 
For
an unspecified reason, when Ms. Coley was assigned as the new Principal of San Fernando
High School, on November 18, 2021, Plaintiff emailed Ms. Coley with his five physician
notes describing his disabilities and requested accommodations. (4AC ¶ 28.) The
4AC states the following: 
 
[O]n December 2, 2021 Ms. Coley refused
to accept the previous interactive process done with Ms. Serrano and instead
initiated a new interactive process. Unfortunately such efforts or the lack
thereof were too little too late for as of November 18, 2021 PLAINTIFF was
reassigned to home and no longer was in a classroom.
 
(4AC
¶ 28.) 
 
Therefore,
it appears that Plaintiff requested accommodations on the same date that he was
reassigned to home and that the requests became moot as Plaintiff was no longer
in the classroom, thus precluding LAUSD from liability since Plaintiff no
longer needed accommodations and no accommodations were denied. 
 
Lastly,
whether Plaintiff’s requested accommodations were, in fact, reasonable, is
generally a question of fact, and it is immaterial that LAUSD alleges that
Plaintiff’s requested accommodations were unreasonable. (See Wilson, supra, 169
Cal.App.4th at p. 1193; Raine v. City of Burbank
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1227, fn. 11.) 
 
As the court finds that Plaintiff’s fifth
and sixth causes of action are capable of amendment but are insufficiently
pled, the demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action is sustained with
leave to amend. 
 
D.        Plaintiff Complied with the Government
Tort Claims Act Presentation Regarding his Labor Code Violations 
 
Plaintiff’s
seventh and eighth causes of action allege violations of Labor Code §§ 1102.5
and 98.6. LAUSD demurs to the seventh and eight causes of action on the basis
that Plaintiff failed to comply with the Government Tort Claims Act. (4AC Ex.
A.) LAUSD asserts that although Plaintiff filed a timely government claim, it
was devoid of facts to his causes of action alleging Labor Code violations and
instead only referenced facts related to FEHA retaliation, discrimination, and
harassment and not the Labor Code violations for retaliation. (Mot. at p. 18:22-27.)

 
On
December 15, 2021, Plaintiff presented a government claim alleging “unlawful discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation in my employment, violating my state and federal
rights.” (4AC Ex. A.) Although Plaintiff did not specifically allege that the
retaliation he experienced was in violation of the Labor Code, Plaintiff also
did not state that retaliation was in violation of the FEHA. Defendant fails to
cite any case law stating that government claims must allege statutory
violations with specificity. The purpose of the claim presentation requirement
is “to provide the public
entity sufficient information to enable it to adequately investigate claims and
to settle them, if appropriate, without the expense of litigation.” (City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1974) 12 Cal.3d
447, 455.) “Consequently, a claim need not contain the detail and specificity
required of a pleading, but need only ‘fairly describe what [the] entity is
alleged to have done.’ [Citation.]” (Stockett v. Association of Cal.
Water Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441,
446.) FEHA claims are exempt
from the claim presentation requirements of the Tort Claim Act, but Labor Code
violations are not. (See Garcia v. Los Angeles U.S.D., 173 Cal.App.3d
701, 711-712; Le
Mere v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 237, 245.) Therefore, Plaintiff did not need to specify
he was alleging retaliation in violation of the Labor Code rather than FEHA. Moreover,
even if Plaintiff’s claim was deficient, Defendants fails to show that the
doctrine of substantial compliance does not apply to Plaintiff’s claims. (See Santee v. Santa Clara County Office of Education (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 702, 713 [“The doctrine of substantial compliance is normally
raised where a timely but deficient claim has been presented
to the public entity.”].)


Therefore, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s seventh and eighth causes of action were timely presented in
compliance with the Government Tort Claims Act. 
 
i.          Seventh
and Eighth Causes of Action - Retaliation in Violation of
Labor Code §§ 98.6 and 1102.5¿ 
 
Labor Code § 98.6 provides: “[a] person
shall not discharge an employee or in any manner discriminate, retaliate, or
take any adverse action against any employee or applicant for employment because the
employee or applicant engaged in any conduct” described as protected under this
section. (Lab. Code, § 98.6(a).) Further, pursuant to Labor Code § 1102.5, an
employer “shall not” made any “rule, regulation, or policy” preventing an
employee from reporting a potential violation of “state or federal statute, or
a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or
regulation” (Lab. Code, § 1102.5(a).) The employer shall also not retaliate
against an employee because the employer “believes that the employee disclosed
or may disclose” such information. (Lab. Code, § 1102.5(b).)¿ 
The 4AC alleges the following as violations of Labor Code
§ 1102.5:
 
PLAINTIFF
has made numerous and multiple complaints with Equal Employment Opportunity
Supervisor Espinoza, Superintendent Beutner, Chief Human Resources Officer Del
Cueto, Chief Human Resources Officer Devalos, all LAUSD Elected Board Members
and many others regarding the unlawful actions and activities of LAUSD,
including but not limited to failing to accommodate PLAINTIFF, transferring
PLAINTIFF numerous times, including transferring PLAINTIFF on a Jewish Holiday
and the disparate and harassing behavior of Chet.
 
(4AC ¶ 120.) 
 
As to violations of Labor Code § 98.6, the 4AC alleges: 
 
PLAINTIFF
complained about the accuracy of his compensation, specifically requesting
clarification of hours worked and clarification of how many hours a day
PLAINTIFF was compensated (as PLAINTIFF was told he was an 8 hour a day
employee and requested to work 8 hours but later found out that was false and
when requesting to be paid the additional hours such requests were deliberately
ignored).
 
(4AC ¶ 131)
 
For whistleblower retaliation claims, “‘[t]he retaliatory
motive is proved by showing that plaintiff engaged in protected activities,
that his employer was aware of the protected activities, and that the adverse
action followed within a relatively short time thereafter.’ [Citation.] ‘The
causal link may be established by an inference derived from circumstantial
evidence, such as the employer's knowledge that the [employee] engaged in
protected activities and the proximity in time between the protected action and
allegedly retaliatory employment decision.’ [Citations.] ‘Essential to a causal
link is evidence that the employer was aware that the plaintiff had engaged in
the protected activity.’” (Garcia-Brower v. Premier
Automotive Imports of CA, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 961, 978 citing Morgan v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 69-70.)
 
Paragraphs 120 and 131 lay out the protected activities Plaintiff allegedly
engaged in, but the rest of the 4AC is devoid of facts showing that LAUSD knew
that Plaintiff engaged in these activities and that circumstantial facts exist to
suggest that Plaintiff was retaliated against for engaging in said activities. The
4AC does not state when Plaintiff engaged in said activities, what adverse
employment actions Plaintiff suffered due to said activities, and the temporal
proximity between him engaging in said activities and LAUSD’s retaliation. 
 
Therefore, the seventh and eighth causes of action are
insufficiently pled, and the court sustains the demurrer as to those causes of
action. As the demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action was
previously sustained due to failure to comply with the Government Tort Claims
Act, the demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action is sustained with
leave to amend. 
 
III.      Motion to
Strike
 
As Defendant LAUSD’s demurrer to
the 4AC has been sustained, their motion is now moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
LAUSD’s demurrer to the 4AC is sustained without leave to amend as to the first
through fourth causes of action and sustained with leave to amend as to the
fifth through eighth causes of action. Defendant’s Motion to strike is denied
as moot. 
 
Dated: September , 2023                                            _______________________________
                                                                                    Gail
Killefer
                                                                                    Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 


