  Case Number:  21STCP02927    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  37 Note:  The Ruling on the City's demurrer follows the ruling on RCALA's demurrer.HEARING DATE:                 July
19, 2023
 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCP02927

 
CASE
NAME:                        Allenco Energy, Inc. v. Uduak-Joe Ntuk, et
al.   
 
MOVING
PARTY:                 Defendant, Roman
Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:        Plaintiff, Allenco Energy,
Inc. 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        TBD
 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK
                                                                                                                                                            
 
MOTION:                               Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint  
 
OPPOSITION:                        June 15, 2023 
 
REPLY:                                  July 11, 2023
                                                                                                                                                            
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant RCALA’s
demurrer is overruled. Defendant is to give notice. 
                                                                                                                                                            
 
Background 
 
Allenco Energy, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) formerly operated a
facility of oil and gas production in the University Park community of the City
of Los Angeles pursuant to an assignment of leases with the Roman Catholic
Archbishop of Los Angeles (“RCALA”), which owns the property. The facility consists
of 21 oil and gas production wells. Because three of the twenty-one wells
extended into property owned by the City (“City Wells”), these wells are
subjected to a separate Lease with the City of Los Angeles (“City”).  The leases for all wells were assigned to
Petitioner in 2009.  Two of the three
City Wells were considered the highest-producing wells. Petitioner operated the
facility for four years until November 2013 when the surrounding community
raised odor and health concerns, prompting a response from regulators and
public officials. 
 
In 2019, the City advised Plaintiff that the assigned lease
expired in 2014 because of Petitioner’s inactivity.  Plaintiff Petitioner, and the correspondence
was sent by Respondent and Defendant Uduak-Joe Ntuk (“Ntuk”), who was the
City’s then-Petroleum Administrator and is currently the State Oil and Gas
Supervisor in charge of California’s Geologic Energy Management Division (“CalGEM”).

 
Consequently, Plaintiff claims that the City’s lease termination
frustrated the purpose OF the lease with the RCALA by making it impossible and
financially infeasible for Plaintiff to operate the facility. Plaintiff alleges
that both leases were terminated simultaneously. As a result, Plaintiff  contends it is not the current operator of the
subject facility, as defined by Public Resources Code (“PRC”) § 3009. Instead, the RCALA and the City are the de facto operators
pursuant to PRC § 3016. However, Plaintiff asserts that it became
a “captive holdover tenant” because both RCALA and the City refuse to comply
with their obligations as owners/operators of the facility. 
 
On April 14, 2021, Plaintiff informed the defendant of its
intention of abandoning the subject facility and ceasing any further
maintenance. The parties disagreed and contested the issue of who was the
proper operator of the subject facility based on the termination of the
subsurface leases. To date, CalGEM treats Plaintiff as the current operator of
the subject lease, requiring Plaintiff to abide by inspection demands and to
maintain the subject facility. 
 
On September 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended
Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint (“SAC”) alleging ten causes of
action:  (1) writ of mandate; (2)
declaratory relief; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (5) intentional interference with contract and
conspiracy to interfere with contract; (6) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage and conspiracy to interfere with prospective
economic advantage; (7) negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage; (8) inverse condemnation and violation of the Takings Clause of the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the United States Constitution and Article
1, Section 19 of the California Constitution; (9) unfora competition in
violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.; and (10) unjust
enrichment.   
 
RCALA now demurs to the second, ninth, and tenth causes of action.

 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
RCALA requests judicial notice of the following in support: 
 
1.    
Order to Plug and Abandon Wells, Decommission
Attendant Facilities, and Restore Well Site, No. 1174, dated March 5, 2020,
State of California Natural Resources Agency Department of Conservation
California Geologic Energy Management Division. 
2.    
Acknowledgement of Appeal in the Matter of the:
Order to Plug and Abandon Wells, Decommission Attendant Facilities, Operator:
AllenCo Energy, Inc. (A1240), Order No. 1174, dated March 19, 2020, California
Department of Conservation. 
3.    
Notice of Formal Hearing in the Matter of the:
Order to Plug and Abandon Well, Decommission Attendant Facilities, Operator:
AllenCo Energy, Inc. (A1240), Order No. 1174, dated April 1, 2020, California
Department of Conservation. 
4.    
Restated Articles of Incorporation of RCALA,
filed with the California Secretary of State on April 25, 2002. 
5.    
Drill Site Agreement dated the 20th day of June
1964, by and between the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a
corporation sole, and Standard Oil Company of California, which was assigned to
and agreed to by Plaintiff. 
 
The court grants RCALA’s first, second, third, and fourth requests
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, §
452, subd. (c).) The court also grants RCALA’s fifth request for
judicial notice. Courts have taken judicial notice of contracts not attached to
petitions, where the complainants provided or referenced them with their
briefing, without objection. (San Francisco Unif. Sch. Dist. ex rel.
Contreras v. Laidlaw Transit, Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 438, 444 n.5.)
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following in
support: 
 
1.    
May 26, 2023 Amended Order to Plug and Abandon
Wells, Decommission Attendant Facilities, and Restore Well Site, No. 1174A
(“Order 1174A”), issued by CalGEM.
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
(Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (c).)
 
Discussion[1]
 
I.               
Legal Authority
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice.  (CCP
§ 430.30 (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose
of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising
questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. . . .”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
518, 525 (Berkley).)  “In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”  (CCP., § 452; see also Stevens v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.)  “When a court evaluates a complaint, the
plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.”  (Duval
v. Board of Trustees (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.)  
The general rule is that the
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts.  (Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)  “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a
matter of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint
set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.) 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are granted only if the
pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.”  (Mahan
v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3,
citing Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regulatory
Auth. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
In addition, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
courts strictly construe a demurrer for uncertainty “because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  
Demurrers do not lie as to
only parts of causes of action where some valid claim is alleged but “must
dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
II.            
Analysis
 
A.    Second Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief 
 
RCALA demurs to the second cause of action for declaratory
relief on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to exhaust its administrative
remedies, the court lacks jurisdiction to grant the requested relief, and the
cause of action is uncertain and insufficiently pleaded.
 
1.     Failure
to Exhaust Administrative Remedies:
 
RCALA argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for
declaratory relief is subject to demurrer because Plaintiff has not exhausted
its administrative remedies. 
 
“When a statute or lawful regulation establishes a
quasi-judicial administrative tribunal to adjudicate remedies, ‘the aggrieved
party is generally required to initially resort to that tribunal and to
exhaust its appellate procedure.’” (Tejon Real Estate, LLC v. City of Los
Angeles (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 149, 155 [quoting Jonathan Neil
& Assoc., Inc. v. Jones (2004) 33 Cal.4th 917, 930].) “ ‘In the
context of administrative proceedings, a controversy is not ripe for
adjudication until the administrative process is completed and the agency makes
a final decision that results in a direct and immediate impact on the parties.’
” (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
274–275 [quoting Santa Barbara County Flower & Nursery Growers
Assn. v. County of Santa Barbara (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 864, 875].) 
 
The “failure to exhaust
administrative remedies is a proper basis for demurrer.” (Parthemore v. Col, 221
Cal.App.4th 1372, 1379.) “A complaint is [] vulnerable to demurrer on
administrative exhaustion grounds where the complaint's allegations, documents
attached thereto, or judicially noticeable facts indicate that exhaustion has
not occurred and no valid excuse is alleged in the pleading to avoid the
exhaustion requirement.” (Ibid.) The exhaustion rule “is not a matter of
judicial discretion, but is a fundamental rule of procedure . . . binding upon
all courts.” (Plantier v. Ramona Municipal Water Dist. (2019) 7 Cal.5th
372, 383.) “[A]n administrative remedy is exhausted only upon termination of
all available, nonduplicative administrative review procedures.” (Id. at
382 (internal citations omitted).)
 
Here, RCALA argues that Plaintiff has failed to exhaust its
administrative remedies because the appeal of CalGEM Order 1174 is still
pending. Pursuant to CalGEM Order 1174, Plaintiff is required to decommission
the facilities and plug and abandon the wells. (Demurrer, 14; O’Brien Decl. ¶ 2,
Ex. A.) RCALA argues that Plaintiff’s declaratory relief claim seeks to
circumvent the CalGEM Order 1174 before it has become final because Plaintiff seeks,
inter alia, the following declarations: (1) “the Company is not the
current ‘operator’ of the facility or any of the facility’s wells” and (2) “the
City owns the City Wells to the extent they extend into and within City-owned
property.” (Demurrer, 14.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that its declaratory relief
claim does not relate to Order 1174 issued by CalGEM. (Opposition, 12.) Plaintiff
contends that its current claim is about the fact that it is being forced to
maintain the facility and wells on a day-to-day basis and to respond to
CalGEM’s repeated inspection demands even though it is no longer the operator
under PRC § 3009. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also contends that the exhaustion
doctrine is subject to a futility exception because both CalGEM’s counsel and
Ntuk have stated that CalGem will continue to regulate Plaintiff as the
current, day-to-day operator until the court resolves the operator issue or the
agency receives executed transfer forms from RCALA and/or the City “consistent
with the requirements” of PRC §§ 3201 and 3202. (Opposition, 13-14.) Furthermore,
Plaintiff contends that RCALA lacks standing to assert an exhaustion argument
because it was not a party to the administrative proceedings involving Order
1174. (Opposition, 13.) 
 
In CalGEM Order 1174, CalGEM presumptively asserts that Petitioner
is the operator of the subject facility for all relevant times at issue in the
orders. (O’Brien Decl. ¶
2, Ex. A.) Ultimately, while CalGEM made a factual determination that Petitioner
is the operator of the subject facility, it did not reach any determination regarding
the contractual rights of the parties. 
For instance, Plaintiff seeks judicial determination of the following:
(1) ownership of the property and the on-site wells; and (2) termination of the
relevant agreements and their effects. (Second Amended Pet. ¶ 176(a)-(b), (h),
(i); (c)-(e).) Thus, the requests for declaratory relief arising from contract
between the parties are not subject to the exhaustion requirement and are
properly before the court. (CCP § 1060; Western Motors Servicing Corp. v.
Land Development & Inv. Co. (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 509.)  While the other requests for declaratory
relief have not been administratively exhausted, that fact does not dispose of
the entire cause of action. Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of
action where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire cause
of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  
 
Accordingly, the court overrules the demurrer on this
ground.
 
2.    
Lack of Jurisdiction
 
RCA also demurs to the second cause of action on the ground
that the court lacks jurisdiction. 
 
“With limited exceptions, ... where an adequate
administrative remedy is provided ..., resort to that forum is a
‘jurisdictional’ prerequisite to judicial consideration of the claim.” (Styne
v. Stevens (2001) 26 Cal.4th 42, 56.)
 
“When an operator seeks judicial review of a decision of the
director . . . the court shall hear the cause on the record before the director
. . . New or additional evidence shall not be introduced in court. The court’s
inquiry shall extend to whether the director acted without or in excess of
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair hearing, and whether there is any
prejudicial abuse of discretion.” (Public Recourses Code § 3355.) In instances
involving an emergency order, “the operator may seek an order from the
appropriate superior court restraining the enforcement of the order pending the
outcome of the appeal” only when the operator “believes that it will be
irretrievably injured by the performance of the work required to alleviate the
emergency pending the outcome of the appeal.” (Public Resources Code §
3350(b)(4).) Petitions must be filed “within 30 days from the date the operator
was served with the decision” of the director. (Public Resources Code § 3354.)
 
Here, RCA argues that the court lacks jurisdiction over the
second cause of action because Petitioner asks the court to issue contrary and
illegal orders before Order 1174 has become final. (Demurrer, 14.) As stated
above, even though the court is sympathetic to the argument that some of the
requests for declaratory relief are not ripe, other requests are, and as a
result, the entire cause of action would not be resolved. (Poizner, supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at 119.) Moving to strike portions of the amended petition
would have been the procedurally correct course of action. 
 
Accordingly, the court overrules the demurrer on this
ground.
 
3.    
Uncertainty
 
RCA also demurs to the second cause of action on the ground
that it is uncertain.
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty, Code of Civil Procedure
§ 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so
bad that one cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Id.) A review of the
pleadings reveals that they are not so unintelligible that Defendant cannot
reasonably respond. Further, RCA identifies the cause of actions in its
demurrer and argues how they are deficient, both of which show that RCA could
reasonably respond to the claims directed at it in the SAP. 
 
Accordingly, the court overrules the demurrer based on
uncertainty.
 
4.    
Failure to State a Claim for Declaratory
Relief:
 
RCA also argues that Petitioner has failed to allege
sufficient facts to support a cause of action for declaratory relief. 
 
“A general demurrer is usually not an appropriate method for
testing the merits of a declaratory relief action.” (Qualified Patients
Ass’n v. City of Anaheim (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 734, 751.) An action for
declaratory relief lies when there is an actual bona fide dispute between
parties as to a legal obligation arising under the circumstances specified in
Code of Civil Procedure § 1060 and, in addition, the controversy must be
justiciable, i.e., presents a question as to which there is more than
one answer.  (Western Motors Servicing Corp., supra, 152 Cal.App.2d
at 512.)
 
As stated above, RCA’s demurrer only targets the requests
for declaratory relief that stems from the CalGem’s determination that Petitioner
is the operator of the subject facility, but this would not dispose of the
entire cause of action because there are some requests that are not subjected
to any administrative scheme. Thus, even though Petitioner has not alleged that
it has exhausted its administrative remedies, the court is not inclined to find
that the second cause of action has not been sufficiently pleaded. 
 
Thus, the court overrules the demurrer on this ground as
well. 
 
B.    Ninth Cause of Action:  Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200
 
RCALA demurs to
the ninth cause of action for failure to state claim.
 
To set forth a
claim for a violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”), Petitioner must establish RCA was
engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) Since the enactment of Proposition 64,
private parties must also establish that they have standing to sue. (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17204.)
 
“To satisfy the standing requirements, a party must (1)
establish a loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as
injury in fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show
that the economic injury was the result of, i.e., caused
by, the unfair business practice or false advertising that is
the gravamen of the claim.” (Kwikset Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.) Four injuries qualify under the
statute: (1) the plaintiff surrendering more or acquiring less in a transaction
than the plaintiff otherwise would have; (2) the plaintiff suffering the
diminishment of a present or future property interest; (3) the plaintiff being
deprived of money or property to which the plaintiff has a cognizable claim; or
(4) the plaintiff being required to enter into a transaction, costing money or
property, that would otherwise have been unnecessary. (Id. at 323.)
They are not exhaustive. (Ibid.) 
 
RCALA argues that Plaintiff lacks standing because it is not a consumer or
competitor of RCALA and must show that it lost money or property because of
unfair competition. (Demurrer, 17.) RCALA also argues that Petitioner does not plead
sufficient facts regarding the causation element and “unfair” practices element.
(Demurrer, 18.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that it pleaded standing by alleging that
in its capacity as a captive holdover tenant, it was forced to undertake
obligations owed by RCALA and made substantial investments in the facility and
its equipment, thereby resulting in a loss to Plaintiff and a corresponding
massive financial windfall to RCALA. (Opposition, 14-15; SAP ¶¶ 11-12, 33,
99-105.) Plaintiff further argues that it alleged causation by stating that Plaintiff
would not have needed to undertake obligations owed by the RCALA and expended
substantial resources maintaining the Facility and responding to CalGEM
inspections if RCALA had accepted its regulatory responsibility as an
owner/operator following termination of Plaintiff’s assigned leases and assumed
control of its property and wells. (Opposition, 15.) Plaintiff also argues that
it alleged unfair practices because as an owner and de facto operator of its
wells under PRC §§ 3009 and 3016, the RCALA had a legal obligation to assume
control of those wells and maintain them in compliance with applicable
regulations. (Ibid.) The court agrees with Plaintiff. 
 
Thus, the court overrules the demurrer as to this cause of
action. 
 
C.    Tenth Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment
 
RCALA also
demurs to the tenth cause of action for failure to state a claim. 
 
A cause
of action for quantum meruit requires the following elements: (1) defendant
requested, by words or conduct, that plaintiff perform services/deliver goods
for the benefit of defendant; (2) plaintiff performed the services/delivered
the goods as requested; (3) defendant has not paid plaintiff for the
services/goods; and (4) the reasonable value of the goods/services that were
provided.  (CACI 371.)  Restitution is a synonym for
unjust enrichment, which is not a cognizable theory, but instead a general
principal related to other claims and remedies.  (Melchior v. New Line
Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 794.) 
 
RCALA demurs
to this cause of action on the ground that unjust enrichment is a remedy rather
than a cause of action. (Demurrer, 19.)  RCA
further argues that the SAC fails to plead what “benefit” it received
and how the receipt of said benefit was “unjust.” (Ibid.)  In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that courts have recognized unjust
enrichment as an independent claim, citing Peterson v. Cellco
Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.
(Opposition, 15.) Plaintiff further argues that it
alleged it was forced to expend substantial resources maintaining the facility
and wells for the benefit of the RCALA.  (Ibid.)
The court agrees with Plaintiff. 
 
Thus, the court
overrules the demurrer as to this cause of action. 
 
Conclusion 
 
RCALA’s demurrer is overruled. RCA is to give notice.


