 Case Number:  22STCV33413    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  68 May Ali, PA-C vs. Zein Obagi, M.D., et al., 22STCV33413
Motions to Deem Requests for Admissions, Sets Two, Three,
Four, Five, and Six, Admitted
Moving Party: Plaintiff May Ali, PA-C

Responding Party: ZO Skin
Health, Inc.

An Observation
For what purpose is Defendant
requesting that the Court take judicial notice of 3 rulings by other Superior
Court Judges?  Is it for res judicata,
or another proper purpose?  No, not in
this case.  It is to ask the Court to
follow the interpretation of law noted by another Superior Court Judge.
Rule of Court 8.1115 essentially
provides that only published California Supreme Court or Cout of Appeal
decisions may be cited.  Other cases
“must not be cited or relied on by the court or a party in any other action.”  How does this rule apply to (unpublished)
Superior Court rulings by other judges?  Perhaps
the failure of the Rule to address this question leads counsel to believe that
it is proper to argue to the Court that other Superior Court judges have ruled
a particular way in cases involving the same legal issue.  This bench officer believes that it is not
proper to “cite” the conclusions of other Superior Court judges as a basis for
ruling a particular way.  That is
essentially asking this Court to “follow” the uncitable determinations.  This Court does not make its determination by
relying upon the rulings of other Superior Court judges that are not citable
authority.  Nor does it think it proper
to ask the Court to take judicial notice of those decisions.  The Request for Judicial Notice id DENIED.
Motions
            Plaintiff
May Ali (Plaintiff) has filed five motions to deem requests for admissions
admitted for RFA Sets Two, Three, Four, Five, and Six. Plaintiff requests
sanctions for each of the motions. Plaintiff served these sets by mail on
Defendant ZO Skin Health, Inc. (Defendant) on May 22 and June 5, 2023.
Defendant served its responses, with some objections, to Plaintiff’s RFAs on
June 26 and July 7, 2023, respectively. Plaintiff took issue with Defendant’s
objections, and the parties spent several months meeting and conferring regarding
the objections.
            The parties
agreed via email to October 9, 2023, as the cut-off date for Plaintiff to file
any motions to compel further responses for outstanding discovery disputes,
including Defendant’s responses to the RFA sets. (Opposition at p. 1; Dietrich
Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. B, p. 1.) During the meet and confer process, Defendant agreed
to provide supplemental responses to some of the RFAs. On November 2, 2023, Defendant
sent an email to Plaintiff indicating that it intended to honor its prior
commitment to serve supplemental responses. (Opposition at p. 4.) Defendant
served its supplemental responses on November 28, 2023. (Opposition at p. 4.)
            In the
meantime, Plaintiff filed these motions to deem requests for admissions
admitted with requests for sanctions on November 13, 2023. Plaintiff’s basis
for filing these motions is unclear, as typically motions to deem requests for
admissions admitted are filed when a party fails to respond to requests for
admission or fails to respond to the requests in a timely manner.
Plaintiff argues in her replies
that there was something wrong with the verifications for Defendant’s supplemental
responses. Plaintiff suggests that the denial of an admission relating to the corporate
status of a particular employee causes the verification given by that employee
to be an invalid verification.  While the
“denial” of the request to admit may give rise to an award of attorneys fees if
Plaintiff prove such facts, the Court is not aware of authority that suggests
that a verification proper on its face should be deemed invalid because of the
denial given in this case.  Perhaps there
is a valid explanation.  Also, this was raised
in the reply, and thus Defendant has not been afforded an opportunity to
explain this situation.
            First,
Plaintiff’s motions are improper. CCP § 2033.280 applies to parties that fail
to serve a timely response to RFAs. There is no indication that Defendant’s
responses were untimely. If a requesting party finds the responses provided by
the responding party to be deficient, then the requesting party may move to
compel further answers to the requests for admissions. (CCP § 2033.290.) This
applies if an objection to a request is without merit or too general (CCP §
2033.290(a)(2)), which appears to be the main basis for Plaintiff’s motions.
However, Plaintiff did not file motions to compel further responses; Plaintiff
filed motions to deem requests for admissions admitted. That is not the proper
type of motion in these circumstances. 
Even if Plaintiff had filed these
motions as motions to compel further responses, Plaintiff missed the deadline
for filing such motions. Motions to compel further responses to requests for
admissions must be filed within 45 days of service of the verified response, or
any specific later date which the parties agreed to in writing, otherwise the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response. (CCP § 2033.290(c).)
Based on the 45 day deadline, the latest motions to compel further responses
could have been filed would have been in August. The parties did agree to an
extension to October 9, but Plaintiff did not file these motions until November
13.
The Court denies Plaintiff’s
motions based on these procedural defects.
The Court reminds the parties that compliance
with discovery obligations in good faith is essential to the proper preparation
and resolution of cases.  The Court
expects the parties to work in good faith so that proper discovery is properly
responded to without the need for court intervention.  The Court shall properly exercise its role in
granting discovery sanctions as appropriate under the law.
Order
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
Motions to Deem Requests for Admissions, Sets Two, Three, Four, Five, and Six, Admitted
and requests for sanctions are DENIED.
Sanctions are denied to both
parties on these motions.