 Case Number:  23STCV28910    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MJ GLOBAL
  ENTERPRISE, INC., a California Corporation; CROSSING STORAGE SERVICES, INC.,
  a California Corporation; and HYUNG DO MIN, an individual,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
APEX FUNDING SOURCE, LLC, a New York
  Limited Liability Company and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV28910
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO DISMISS COMPLAINT
 
Date: April 2, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Apex Funding Source, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
MJ Global Enterprise, Inc., Crossing Storage Services, Inc., and Hyung Do Min
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On November 28, 2023, Plaintiffs MJ Global Enterprise,
Inc., Crossing Storage Services, Inc., and Hyung Do Min (“Plaintiffs”) filed
the operative Complaint against Defendants Apex Funding Source, LLC and DOES 1
to 50 (“Defendants”), inclusive for: (1) Fraud and Deceit; (2) Usury; (3)
Unfair Business Practices (B&P § 17200); (4) Violation of California
Financing Law (Financial Code § 22000, et seq.); and (5) Injunction. 
 
            On January 19, 2024, Defendant Apex
Funding Source, LLC (“Apex”) filed this instant Motion to Dismiss Complaint. On
February 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On February 22, 2024,
Apex filed their reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
            In support of their opposition, Plaintiffs advanced the declarations of
Calvin Park and Hyung Do Min. Apex objected to portions of these declarations. 
 
The Court rules on the Park objections as follows:
            OVERRULED: 1-2
            SUSTAINED: 3-11
 
The Court rules on
the Min objections as follows:
OVERRULED: 1-4
            SUSTAINED: None
 
DISCUSSION
            “When a court upon motion of a party
or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action
should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss
the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).)
            “A defendant, on or before the last
day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may
for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for…(2) to stay or
dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(2).)
 
Motion to Dismiss Complaint 
            Apex moves for an order to dismiss
this action in its entirety on the ground of forum non conveniens. Apex argues
the forum selection clause is mandatory because the relevant contract language
clearly requires the parties to litigate their disputes in the designated
forum. Furthermore, Apex contends the inclusion of the phrase “if [Apex] so
elects” makes the requirement conditional, but no less mandatory when the
condition is triggered, thus properly construed, the forum selection clause
requires that suit be instituted in New York if Apex so chooses. Moreover, Apex
argues the California Finance Law is inapplicable because Apex is not a finance
lender and the Agreement was not a loan. (Cal. Fin. Code § 22324; Civ. Code §§
1638-1639.) Apex also asserts California’s interest in enforcing the Agreement
does not outweigh the State of New York’s interest in enforcing its own laws
and statutes, whereas the California law would impair and impede the Judgment
already entered by a New York court and would clearly promote and encourage
forum-shopping. 
            
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Apex
has unclean hands because Apex’s contract was intentionally designed to evade
California licensing requirements. Plaintiffs further contend the transaction
was a loan as implied by the name of the defendant, “Apex Funding Source” and
Apex represented itself as a lender. Plaintiffs also argue the choice of law
provision is unenforceable because it is discretionary. Additionally,
Plaintiffs contend their action is not contract-based but seeks relief that
Apex activities in the State of California comply with California Constitution
and Regulations. Similarly, Plaintiffs assert the forum selection clause is
unreasonable and unfair because Apex defrauded them and induced them to sign a
contract that is against public policy and illegal. Specifically, Plaintiffs
contend Apex is not a licensed lender in California, the subject contract is
clearly a loan, and the interest rate is usurious because it is 160 percent.
Likewise, Plaintiffs assert the contract is a pre-printed, boilerplate
agreement; there was no negotiation of the terms; and Apex misrepresented the
nature of the contract to induce Plaintiffs to enter into the agreement. Also,
Plaintiffs assert the forum selection clause is unreasonably favorable to Apex
because New York would not invalidate the term sand conditions, particularly
the interest rate. Lastly, Plaintiffs argue they had no meaningful choice in
agreeing to the forum selection provision and it would be unfair and
unreasonable to require they litigate in a distant court. 
 
            In reply, Apex argues no authority
cited by Plaintiffs provides that a motion to dismiss can be denied based on
mee allegations of unclean hands. Furthermore. Apex contends Plaintiffs have
not shown that the California Finance Law applies to Apex or the subject contract
because Apex is not a finance lender and the Agreement was not a loan. Apex
also contends Plaintiffs cannot dispute that frum selection clauses are
presumed valid by California law because it is mandatory and does not contain a
“service of suit” clause. Moreover, Apex argues the forum selection clause is
reasonable and Plaintiffs have not shown anything more than mere inconvenience
or additional expense if the contract is enforce, which does not satisfy the
unreasonableness requirement. In addition, Apex argues Plaintiffs cite to no
authority to support the contention that a forum selection clause in a form
contract is unenforceable. Finally, Apex asserts there is no evidence that
litigating the case in New York would cause unfair oppression or burden to
Plaintiffs. 
 
 
 
Apex
is Not a Finance Lender and the Contract is Not a Loan 
 
            Pursuant to California Finance Code
Section 22009, a “Finance Lender” is “any person who is engaged in the business
of making consumer loans or making commercial loans. The business of making
consumer loans or commercial loans may include lending money and taking, in the
name of the lender, or in any other name, in whole or in part, as security for
a loan, any contract or obligation involving the forfeiture of rights in or to
personal property, the use and possession of which property is retained by
other than the mortgagee or lender, or any lien on, assignment of, or power of
attorney relative to wages, salary, earnings, income, or commission.” (Cal.
Fin. Code § 22009.)  
 
Furthermore,
“[a]ny person who contracts for or negotiates in this state a loan to be made
outside the state for the purpose of evading or avoiding the provisions of this
division is subject to the provisions of this division.” (Cal. Fin. Code §
22324.)
 
            Here, Apex attests that it is not a
lender but a limited liability company organized and doing business in New
York, where it specializes in providing funding solutions to businesses
including purchasing future accounts receivable of a business and providing a
fixed up-front capital-infusion. 
(Bak Decl., ¶ 3.)
Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ counsel admits that Apex is not licensed in the State
of California to engage in lending activities. Also, there is no evidence
submitted that indicates Apex is licensed in any other state such as New York
to engage in lending activities or supports that Apex is in fact a lender as
defined by California Finance Code Section 22009. Thus, Apex is not a lender
subject to the California Finance Code. 
 
Assuming
arguendo that Apex was a lender the contract was not a loan. First, the
Agreement is entitled “Sale of Future Receipts Agreement.” (Bak Decl., ¶ 4; Ex.
1.) Further, the Agreement designates Apex as “Buyer” and the
business-identified above, i.e., Plaintiffs as “Seller” and purports that
Plaintiffs sells future receivables to Apex in Paragraph 1. Similarly, the
Agreement states in Paragraph 5 in bold font and capitalize letters that “THIS
IS NOT A LOAN.” Thus, it is clear from the express language of the Agreement
that the subject contract entered into by the parties was not a loan but rather
a purchase of future receivables.
 
As
such, the Court turns in determination of whether or not the forum selection
clause is mandatory.  
 
The
Forum Selection Clause is Permissive Not Mandatory
 
In
Berg v. MTC Electronic Technologies, 61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358, the court
held “If there is no mandatory forum selection clause, a forum non conveniens
motion ‘requires the weighing of a gamut of factors of public and private
convenience....’” (Berg v. MTC Electronic Technologies, 61 Cal.App.4th
349, 358.) “However if there is a mandatory forum selection clause, the test is
simply whether application of the clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the
clause is usually given effect. Claims that the previously chosen forum is
unfair or inconvenient are generally rejected.” (Id.) “If, by contrast,
a clause merely provides for submission to jurisdiction, and does not expressly
mandate litigation exclusively in a particular forum, the normal forum non
conveniens analysis applies.” (Id.) 
 
 
In
Paragraph 22 of the Sale of Future Receipts Agreement, the forum selection
clause states in relevant part: 
 
“Binding
effect, Governing Law, Venue and Jurisdiction, Service of Process. This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Seller, Buyer,
Guarantor and their respective successors and assigns, except that Seller shall
not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein
without the prior written consent of Buyer which consent may be withheld in
Buyer’s sole discretion. Except as set forth in the Arbitration section, this
Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
state of New York, without regard to any applicable principles of conflicts of
law. Any suit, action or proceeding arising hereunder, or the interpretation,
performance or breach of this Agreement, shall, if Buyer so elects, be
instituted in any court sitting in New York or the state where Seller is
located, (the Acceptable Forums). Seller and Guarantor agree that the
Acceptable Forums are convenient to it, and submit to jurisdiction of the
Acceptable Forums and waives any and all objections to jurisdiction or venue.
Should such proceeding be initiated in any other forum, Seller and Guarantor
waive any right to oppose any motion or application made by Buyer to transfer
such proceeding to an Acceptable Forum.”
 
Here,
the forum selection clause contained in the Agreement between Apex and
Plaintiffs is permissive not mandatory because it merely provides for
submission to either any court in New York or the state where Plaintiffs are
located as “Acceptable Forums.” Although the forum selection clause includes
language that if Plaintiffs initiated a proceeding in any other forum outside
of Acceptable Forums they would waive any right to oppose any motion or
application made by Apex to transfer the proceeding to the Acceptable Forums,
there is no express language used such as “exclusive” or “only” to signal that
jurisdiction is appropriate in New York only and none other. As such, the Court
will now turn to the normal forum non conveniens analysis. 
 
The
court must consider: (1) the availability of a suitable alternative forum for
the Plaintiff; (2) the private interests of the litigants; (3) the public
interest of the forum state; and (4) the resident Plaintiff’s choice of the
forum.
 
            Here, New York is an available and
suitable alternative forum for Plaintiffs to have their case heard. The
Agreement provides for any courts in New York to hear Plaintiffs’ claims.
Furthermore, Apex is a limited liability company organized and doing business
in New York, which indicates it has a private interest in having the case heard
there. Moreover, New York would have a public interest in ruling on a case that
affects its domiciled business. In fact, a court in New York has already
rendered Judgment against Plaintiffs on matters related to this Agreement. On
the contrary, Plaintiffs’ private interests are also given substantial
deference. As discussed above, the subject Agreement was entered into here in
California. Also, the Plaintiffs’ are residents of California. However,
Plaintiffs’ have not shown that litigating the case in New York, where they are
currently attempting to set aside judgement would be unduly burdensome or
unreasonable. Thus, in the interest of substantial justice the action should be
heard in New York. 
 
            Therefore, the motion to dismiss is
GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 