  Case Number:  22STCV18964    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RICHARD GALVAN,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
THOMAS EDWARD WALJESKI, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV18964
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
(1)  MOTION TO COMPEL
  PAIGE GALVAN TO APPEAR FOR A DEPOSITION AND FOR SANCTIONS
(2)  MOTION TO COMPEL
  RICHARD GALVAN TO APPEAR FOR A DEPOSITION AND FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date: April 2, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Thomas Edward Waljeski
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:
Plaintiffs Richard Galvan and Paige Galvan
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. No reply has been received. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This tort action arises from Plaintiffs
Richard Galvan and Paige Galvan’s lease for the subject property located at
26168 Pacific Coast Highway, Malibu, CA 90265 owned by Defendant Thomas Edward
Waljeski (“Defendant”), inclusive. Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against
Defendant alleging causes of action for (1) Violation of California Civil Code
§ 1942.4; (2) Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (3) Private
Nuisance; (4) Businessand Professions Code § 17200, et seq; (5) Negligence; (6)
Breach of Covenant of quiet Enjoyment; (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (8) Fraud and Deceit; (9) Negligence Per Se; and (10) Violation of
Retaliatory Eviction and Anti-Harassment Ordinance.
  
            On October 20, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant motions to compel the Plaintiffs’ depositions. In each motion, Defendant
requests sanctions against each Plaintiff in the amount of $4,645.08. On March
20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their joint opposition to the instant discovery
motions. 
 
MEET AND CONFER
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2), a motion
for an order compelling a deponent’s attendance and testimony “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
             
            Here, Defendant contends that
neither Plaintiff attended their respectively scheduled deposition on October
18, 2023 and October 19, 2023. Based on the declaration submitted by
Defendant’s counsel, Counsel Sanders attempted to contact Plaintiff’s counsel
regarding the deponent’s failure to appear at the scheduled time. (Sanders
Decls. at ¶¶ 9-10.)  No response was
provided. (Ibid.)  Thereafter, on
October 19, 2023, Defendant’s counsel sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel
memorializing those attempts and notified him of Defendant’s intent to compel
Plaintiffs’ depositions. (Sanders Decls., Exhs. G.) While Plaintiffs claim that
there was no contact to inquire about the nonappearance (Opposition at pg. 4),
this does not comport with the Defendants’ letter issued on October 19, 2023. Based
on Counsel Sanders’ declarations, the Court finds that Defendant has abided by
the requirement under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).
 
DISCUSSION
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.)¿A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a
party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to
produce documents for inspection and copying.¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280,¿subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document .
. . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450,¿subd. (a).)¿In additional to complying with the meet and confer
requirement, the motion must set forth both facts showing good cause justifying
the demand for any documents.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,¿subds. (b)(1),
(b)(2).)
 
Merits
            On September 27, 2023, Defendant
unilaterally noticed the depositions of Plaintiffs Paige Galvan and Richard
Galvan on October 18, 2023 and October 19, 2023, respectively. (Sanders Decls.
¶ 3, Exhs. B.)  On September 10, 2023,
Plaintiffs both served objections to their depositions on the basis that they
would be unavailable to appear on the respective dates, and Defendant failed to
comply with Appendix 3.A of the Los Angeles Superior Court Rules of Court.  (Sanders Decls. ¶ 4, Exhs. C.) 
 
Plaintiffs’
objection is that the deposition was unilaterally noticed by Defendant’s
counsel, in violation of Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule, rule 3.26 and
Appendix, 3.A(e)(2) which requires parties to give “reasonable consideration”
in accommodating schedules of opposing counsel and the deponent, where possible
to do so.¿ Defendant’s counsel, however, attests to and presents evidence of
his efforts to request deposition dates from Plaintiffs’ counsel on August 12,
2023 and again on September 25, 2023.¿ (Sanders Decls. ¶¶2, 7, Exhs. A, D.)¿
The Court has reviewed the parties’ correspondence and finds that Defendants’
counsel’s efforts were sufficient to meet the requirements of the local
rule.¿As such, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ served objections were not
valid. While Plaintiffs argue that there is animosity between counsel, there is
nothing to suggest that Plaintiffs were incapable of attending their
depositions.  
 
            Therefore, the motions are granted.
Plaintiffs are ordered to appear for deposition within 30 days of this order.
 
Sanctions
            Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.450(c) states, “(1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Code of Civil Procedure §
2023.030(a) provides that¿“[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . .¿If a
monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall
impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the¿sanction unjust.”¿¿Failing to respond¿or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.¿ (Id.,¿§
2023.010(d).)¿ 
 
            Here, Defendant seeks monetary
sanctions against each Plaintiff and their attorney of record, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $4,645.08, totaling $9,290.16. Counsel Sanders
attests that he spent or will spend a total of 12 hours for each motion at an
hourly rate of $450, which includes the following: (1) two hours for attending
both depositions, (2) four hours for preparing both motions, (3) four hours in attending
and appearing for the ex parte application, and (4) two hours appearing at the
hearing for these motions. (Sanders Decls. ¶¶ 14-15.) Also, he attests to have
incurred costs for the court reporter, the deposition room rental and filing
fees. (Id. at ¶¶ 16-17.) 
 
While
sanctions are mandatory under Section 2025.450(c) and permissible under Section
2023.030 for Plaintiffs’ failure to submit to an authorized method of
discovery, the amount requested is excessive. First, the motions are
essentially identical and concern uncomplicated discovery matters. Thus, it is
unlikely that Defendant’s counsel extended a total of four hours in preparing
the instant motions. Also, Defendant’s counsel only appeared at a single ex
parte application hearing in order to specially set a hearing for the instant
motions. Furthermore, appearances will likely be conducted remotely. In terms
of costs, Defendant has not submitted any evidence of the actual charge for the
court reporter along with his moving papers, and no supplemental declaration
has been submitted to substantiate the reimbursement of $1,500 for each
deposition. Thus, this cost is not reasonable and cannot be awarded without any
substantiation. Therefore, Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is
granted in the combined, reduced amount of $2,995.08 against Plaintiffs and
their attorney of record, jointly and severally, consisting of 5 hours of
attorney time at an hourly rate of $450, $600 in deposition room costs, and
$145.08 in filing fees. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions are granted. Plaintiffs are ordered
to appear for deposition within 30 days of this order at a time, place and date
agreed upon. Also, Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiffs and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, is granted in
the combined and reduced amount of $2,995.08. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to tender payment to Defendant’s counsel within
30 days of this order. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



