  Case Number:  22STCV34480    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  34 Moving Party: Defendant
APRO, LLC
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Anita Rius
                                    
        
The Motion is GRANTED. This matter is STAYED as to Defendant APRO,
LLC pending the conclusion of arbitration. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 26, 2022,
Plaintiff Anita Rius filed her Complaint against Defendants APRO, LLC; APRO
Distribution LLC; and Joseph Juliano. The causes of action arise from
Plaintiff’s employment by Defendants. 
 
On February 7, 2023,
Defendant APRO, LLC (“Defendant”) filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On August 30, 2023, Defendant
filed its Motion to Compel Arbitration and Motion to Stay Plaintiff’s Complaint
for Damages. In support of its Motion, Defendant concurrently filed: (1)
Memorandum of Points and Authorities; (2) Declaration of Nolan McCready; (2)
Declaration of Judy Chu; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
On October 23, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the Motion. In support of her Opposition,
Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Anita Rius; (2) Declaration of
Rosa Vigil-Gallenberg; (3) Objections to Evidence; (4) Proposed Order; and (5)
Proof of Service. 
 
On October 27, 2023,
Defendant filed its Reply regarding the Motion. In support of its Reply,
Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of
Anita Rius; and (2) Response to Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary
Objections
 
A.      Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff filed evidentiary objections to
the Declaration of Judy Chu. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections.  
 




Objection



 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




 
B.      Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendant filed evidentiary objections to
the Declaration of Anita Rius. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections. 
 




Objection






1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




7


 


OVERRULED




8


 


OVERRULED




9


 


OVERRULED




10


 


OVERRULED




11


 


OVERRULED




12


 


OVERRULED




13


 


OVERRULED




14


 


OVERRULED




15


 


OVERRULED




 
II.      
Legal
Standard
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists [unless it
makes certain determinations].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
“Under both federal and state law, arbitration
agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are revocable for reasons
under state law that would render any contract revocable. . . . Reasons that would render any
contract revocable under state law include fraud, duress, and
unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
231, 239, citations omitted.)
 
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the existence of an
arbitration agreement.¿The party opposing the petition bears the burden of establishing
a defense to the agreement's enforcement by a preponderance of the evidence.¿In
determining whether there is a duty to arbitrate, the trial court must, at
least to some extent, examine and construe the agreement.” (Tiri, supra,
at p. 239.)
 
III.     Discussion
 
A.      The
Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant submits a document titled “Comprehensive
Agreement Employment At-Will and Arbitration” (“Arbitration Agreement”). (Decl.
Chu, Exh. A.) The Arbitration Agreement is purportedly signed by Plaintiff on
November 7, 2014, although Plaintiff does not recall seeing, reading, or
signing the Arbitration Agreement. (Decl. Rius, ¶ 3.)
 
The following are the relevant portions of the
Arbitration Agreement. 
 
“1. It is hereby agreed by and between Anita M. Rius
(hereinafter ‘Employee’) and Company (Employer) that the Company or the
Employee can terminate the employment and compensation of Employee at any time,
with or without cause and/or with or without notice, at the option of the
Company or the Employee.
 
“2. I further agree and acknowledge that the Company
and I will utilize binding arbitration to resolve all disputes that may arise
out of the employment context. Both the Company and I agree that any claim,
dispute, and/or controversy that either I may have against the Company (or its
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, and parties
affiliated with its employee benefit and health plans) or the Company may have
against me, arising from, related to, or having any relationship or connection
whatsoever with my seeking employment with, employment by, or other association
with the Company shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by binding
arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act, in conformity with the
procedures of the California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec 1280 et
seq., including section 1283.05 and all of the Act's other mandatory and
permissive rights to discovery). Included within the scope of this Agreement
are all disputes, whether based on tort, contract, statute (including, but not
limited to, any claims of discrimination and harassment, whether they be based
on the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, as amended, or any other state or federal law or regulation),
equitable law, or otherwise, with exception of claims arising under the
National Labor Relations Act which are brought before the National Labor
Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits under the
California Workers' Compensation Act, Employment Development Department claims,
or as otherwise required by state or federal law. However, nothing herein shall
prevent me from filing and pursuing proceedings before the California
Department of Fair Employment and Housing, or the United States Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (although if I choose to pursue a claim
following the exhaustion of such administrative remedies, that claim would be
subject to the provisions of this Agreement). Further, this Agreement shall not
prevent either me or the Company from obtaining provisional remedies to the
extent permitted by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.8 either before the
commencement of or during the arbitration process. In addition to any other
requirements imposed by law, the arbitrator selected shall be a retired
California Superior Court Judge, or otherwise qualified individual to whom the
parties mutually agree, and shall be subject to disqualification on the same
grounds as would apply to a judge of such court. All rules of pleading (including
the right of demurrer), all rules of evidence, all rights to resolution of the
dispute by means of motions for summary judgment, judgment on the pleadings,
and judgment under Code of Civil Procedure Section 631.8 shall apply and be
observed. Resolution of the dispute shall be based solely upon the law
governing the claims and defenses pleaded, and the arbitrator may not invoke
any basis (including but not limited to, notions of ‘just cause’) other than
such controlling law. The arbitrator shall have the immunity of a judicial
officer from civil liability when acting in the capacity of an arbitrator,
which immunity supplements any other existing immunity. Likewise, all
communications during or in connection with the arbitration proceedings are privileged
in accordance with Cal. Civil Code Section 47(b). As reasonably required to
allow full use and benefit of this agreement's modifications to the Act's
procedures, the arbitrator shall extend the times set by the Act for the giving
of notices and setting of hearings. Awards shall include the arbitrator's
written reasoned opinion. I understand and agree to this binding arbitration
provision, and both I and the Company give up our right to trial by jury of any
claim I or the Company may have against each other.”
 
(Decl.
Chu, Exh. A.)
 
B.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to compel Plaintiff’s
claims to arbitration and stay this action pending completion of arbitration.
(Motion, p. 7:9–10.)
 
Defendant argues: (1) that the Federal Arbitration (FAA)
applies to the Arbitration Agreement and preempts state law; (2) that the
Motion should be granted because a valid agreement to arbitrate exists; (3)
that the Arbitration Agreement is neither procedurally nor substantively
unconscionable and therefore must be enforced; and (4) that the case should be
stayed upon filing of the Motion and pending the conclusion of arbitration.
(Motion, pp. 9:20, 11:8–9, 14:11–12, 16:26–27.)
 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion, arguing: (1) that there
is no enforceable agreement that compels Plaintiff to arbitrate these claims;
(2) that Defendant has not met its burden to authenticate the Arbitration
Agreement and the “New Hire Checklist – Station Employees” document; (3) that
Defendant has not met its burden to prove an arbitration agreement was formed
among the Parties; (4) that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable, both
procedurally and substantively; (5) that the Arbitration Agreement was not
provided in Spanish, evidencing a high degree of procedural unconscionability;
and (6) that the Arbitration Agreement is permeated with unconscionability.
(Opposition, pp. 5:14–15, 6:2–3, 7:16–17, 9:1, 9:22–23, 10:18–19, 11:1–2,
11:16, 13:4.)
 
In its Reply, Defendant argues: (1) that Plaintiff
signed a valid agreement to arbitrate claims against Defendant; (2) that
Plaintiff does not deny that the Arbitration Agreement is authentic and has
made no effort to prove its falsity; (3) that an arbitration agreement exists
between Plaintiff and Defendant; (4) that the Arbitration Agreement is neither
procedurally nor substantively unconscionable; (5) that Plaintiff has not
presented any evidence of oppression, surprise, or fraud; and (6) that
Plaintiff does not claim she is unable to read or comprehend English. (Reply,
pp. 2:14–16, 3:24–25, 5:1, 5:17–18, 7:4.)
 
C.      Whether
an Arbitration Agreement Exists
 
The evidence presented to the Court supports a
determination that there is an arbitration agreement. 
 
The purported Arbitration Agreement has been authenticated
by Declarant Judy Chu, who is the Vice President of Human Resources with
Non-Party Phillips 66, is on assignment working with Defendant, is familiar
with Defendant’s record-keeping procedures and historical practices, has access
to and familiarity with Defendant’s personnel records, and has personally
reviewed Plaintiff’s personnel file. (Decl. Chu, ¶¶ 2–3.)
 
The Arbitration Agreement appears to be
electronically signed by Plaintiff on November 7, 2014. (Decl. Chu, Exh. A.)
 
Plaintiff does not claim that she did not sign the
Arbitration Agreement. Rather, she only declares that she does not recall
seeing, reading, or signing the Arbitration Agreement. (Decl. Rius, ¶ 4.)
 
It is true that Defendant’s signature does not appear
on the Arbitration Agreement. However, “[a] party who has signed a contract may
be compelled specifically to perform it, though the other party has not signed
it, if the latter has performed, or offers to perform it on his part, and the
case is otherwise proper for enforcing specific performance.” (Civ. Code, §
3388; see Serafin v. Balco Props. Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165,
177, holding that Civil Code section 3388 applies in the context of arbitration
agreements.)
 
Defendant has met its burden to show that an
arbitration agreement exists. 
 
D.     Unconscionability
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“Agreements to arbitrate may be
invalidated if they are found to be unconscionable.” (Fitz v. NCR Corp.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 713, citations omitted.)
 
“Unconscionability consists of
both procedural and substantive elements. The procedural element addresses the
circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power. Substantive unconscionability
pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of
whether they are overly harsh or one-sided. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v.
Pinnacle Mkt. Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 246, citations
omitted.)
 
“‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and
substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court
to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.’ But
they need not be present in the same degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is
invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.’ In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa. (Armendariz
v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, [cleaned
up], italics in original, abrogated in part on other grounds by AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2010) 565 U.S. 333.).)
 
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p.
247, citation omitted.)
 
“Moreover, courts are required to determine the unconscionability of
the contract ‘at the time it was made.’” (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co.,
LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 920, quoting Civ. Code, § 1670.5.) 
 
“Unconscionability is ultimately a question of law.” (Patterson v.
ITT Consumer Fin. Corp. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 1659, 1663, citation
omitted.)
 
2.      Procedural
Unconscionability
 
a.  
    Legal Standard
 
“[P]rocedural unconscionability requires
oppression or surprise. Oppression occurs where a contract involves lack of
negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle, supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 247 [cleaned up].)
 
“The procedural element of an
unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a contract of adhesion . .
. .” (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiff declares: (1) that at the time she
was hired, Plaintiff was presented with over 100 pages of documents to sign,
all in one day; (2) that as Plaintiff was attempting to read these documents at
Defendant’s place of business, she was told by a human resources employee words
to the effect of “we are too busy for you to read everything, just sign where
indicated”; (3) that Plaintiff was not given the opportunity to review the
documents or take them to consult with a lawyer; (4) that these documents
included the Arbitration Agreement; (5) that Plaintiff did not have any role in
drafting the Arbitration Agreement; (6) that Plaintiff was not informed or the
terms of the Arbitration Agreement nor told they were negotiable or could be modifiable;
(7) that Plaintiff did not know what arbitration was until March 2023 or what
rights she was waiving if she was to sign the Arbitration Agreement; (8) that
Plaintiff’s primary language is Spanish; (9) that Plaintiff’s formal education
was provided in Mexico in Spanish; (10) that Plaintiff routinely communicated
with her co-workers in Spanish while employed with Defendant; (11) that
Plaintiff was not provided a copy of the Arbitration Agreement in Spanish; and
(12) that Defendant did not translate the Arbitration Agreement into Spanish
for Plaintiff. (Decl. Rius, ¶¶ 3–7.)
 
Defendant argues that the Arbitration Provision is not procedurally
unconscionable because there is “no evidence of oppression, surprise, or fraud”
and “Plaintiff does not claim she is unable to read or comprehend English.”
(Reply, pp. 5:18, 7:4.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s argument. 
 
        “Absent unusual circumstances, a
contract offered on a take-it-or-leave-it is deemed adhesive, and a commercial
transaction conditioned on a party’s acceptance of such a contract is deemed
procedurally unconscionable.” (Vasquez v. Greene Motors, Inc. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 1172, 1184.)
 
        The Arbitration Agreement is clearly a
classic take-it-or-leave-it contract of adhesion. Furthermore, Defendant did
not give Plaintiff a meaningful choice or opportunity to negotiate the
document. 
 
        As to the issue of Defendant providing
Plaintiff with a Spanish-language translation of the Arbitration Agreement, the
Court has not been presented with sufficient evidence to determine that this
was procedurally unconscionable. Plaintiff has submitted her declaration in
English, without declaring that it was originally submitted in Spanish and then
translated. Moreover, Plaintiff has not claimed that she cannot read or
comprehend English. 
 
        The Court finds that the Arbitration
Agreement is procedurally unconscionable. 

 
3.      Substantive
Unconscionability
 
a.  
    Legal Standard
 
“Substantive unconscionability
focuses on overly harsh or one-sided results. In assessing substantive unconscionability, the paramount
consideration is mutuality.” (Fitz, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.
723 [cleaned up].)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively
unconscionable because: (1) the Arbitration Agreement lacks mutuality because
it binds Plaintiff and none of the Defendants, similar to the arbitration
agreement in Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 74; and (2) the Arbitration Agreement would require Plaintiff to
arbitrate her claims against unnamed Parties which she did not agree to
arbitrate with. (Opposition, pp. 11:25–26, 12:11–24, 13:1.)
 
Defendant argues that the Arbitration Agreement is not
substantively unconscionable. (Reply, p. 5:1.)
 
The Court agrees with Defendant. 
 
The Arbitration Agreement binds both Plaintiff and Defendant APRO,
LLC. Consider the explicit mutually-binding language of the following clauses:
 
·      
“Both the Company and I agree
that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that either I may have against the
Company (or its owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, and
parties affiliated with its employee benefit and health plans) or the Company
may have against me, arising from, related to, or having any relationship or
connection whatsoever with my seeking employment with, employment by, or other
association with the Company shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by
binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act, in conformity with the
procedures of the California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec 1280 et
seq., including section 1283.05 and all of the Act's other mandatory and
permissive rights to discovery).”
·      
“Further, this Agreement shall not
prevent either me or the Company from obtaining provisional
remedies to the extent permitted by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.8
either before the commencement of or during the arbitration process.”
 
(Decl.
Chu, Exh. A, emphases added.)
 
These clauses are mutual. The Court’s review of the rest of the
Arbitration Agreement does not uncover any clauses that either lack explicit
mutuality or produce one-sided results. (See Nunez v. Cycad Mgmt. LLC (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 276, 285–286, holding that an arbitration agreement is
substantively unconscionable when it empowers arbitrator to impose costs on
employee that would not have been incurred in court and to limit discovery). 
 
        In Carmona, the Court of Appeal
found that an arbitration agreement was substantively unconscionable because:
(1) it lacked mutuality as to which types of claims could be brought in
arbitration, benefiting the employer in the types of claims it would normally
bring but harming the employees in the types of claims they would normally
bring; (2) it allowed the employer to recover fees and costs whenever they
instituted litigation, not just when they prevailed; (3) it presumed harm to
the employer from disclosure of breach of the confidentiality sub-agreement,
but did not presume any similar harms to the employee; and (4) it required
employees to discuss with the employer any problems relating to the employment
before discussing those issues with outsiders, but did not have a similar
provision requiring employers to do the same. (Carmona, 226 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 86–89.)
 
        None of those issues are present in the
Arbitration Agreement in this case. Rather, the Arbitration Agreement is mutual
in that it allows both Plaintiff and Defendant to arbitrate “any claim,
dispute, and/or controversy” that they might have against each other. The
Arbitration Agreement does not include clauses for additional fees or costs,
presumed harms, or pre-arbitration requirements — much less one-sided versions
of such clauses. 
 
Further, as stated above, Defendant is able to enforce the
Arbitration Agreement despite not having signed it. (Civ. Code, § 3388; see Serafin,
supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at p. 177.)
 
        Finally, the only clause involving
parties beside Plaintiff and Defendant is a parenthetical in paragraph 2 of the
Arbitration Agreement, which includes arbitration “against the Company (or its
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, and parties
affiliated with its employee benefit and health plans)”. (Decl. Chu, Exh. A, ¶
2.) It is true that there is a lack of mutuality here, as those parties have
not signed the Arbitration Agreement and have not agreed to be bound by it.
However, this lack of mutuality is unlikely to produce overly harsh or
one-sided outcomes. This is because all these claims would still have to go to
arbitration. There is no benefit to those parties since they could compel
Plaintiff to arbitrate the relevant claims and, because they are clearly
third-party beneficiaries to the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff could also
compel them to arbitrate those same claims. 
 
The Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively
unconscionable. 
 
        Because the Arbitration Agreement is not
substantively unconscionable, the Court does not find that the Arbitration
Agreement is unenforceable on the basis of unconscionability.
 
        Plaintiff has not met its burden to show
that a valid defense exists to enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED. This matter is STAYED as to Defendant APRO,
LLC pending the conclusion of arbitration. The Court schedules a post-arbitration
Status Conference for January 14, 2025.  The
parties are to file a Joint Status Conference Report 5 court days prior to the
status conference hearing. 
 