 Case Number:  22STCV02147    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MISSION CITY COMMUNITY NETWORK, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES (DHCS),
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV02147
 Hearing Date:   1/23/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Mission
  City Community Network, Inc.’s Motion for Leave of Court to File a Fourth
  Amended Complaint.



 
Background
Plaintiff Mission City Community Network, Inc. (MCCN), which
operates non-profit community health centers throughout Southern California,
sues Defendant Department of Health
Care Services (DHCS) pursuant to an April 7, 2023 Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) alleging three claims, only one of which remains operative: the
TAC’s second cause of action for Negligence.
The negligence claim generally
arises from allegations that DHCS has failed to compensate MCCN $9.9 million
for services rendered to California Medi-Cal beneficiaries during an 18-month
period in which DHCS had suspended MCCN from participation in the Medi-Cal
program. The negligence claim more specifically arises from allegations that
(1)-(2) DHCS negligently shared faulty information with the California
Department of Justice (Cal DOJ) related to alleged fraudulent billing by MCCN
that led the Cal DOJ to investigate MCCN, (3) DHCS negligently relied on the
Cal DOJ investigation to suspend MCCN’s Medi-Cal provider status because the
Cal DOJ investigation was based on a search warrant affidavit that relied on the
deposition testimony of a former MCCN employee in a federal action against MCCN
that was resolved in MCCN’s favor one year prior to the warrant’s issuance, and
(4) DHCS failed to correct information in the Cal DOJ affidavit. 
On August 15, 2023, MCCN filed a
motion for leave of court to file a Fourth Amended Complaint (4AC).
On January 9, 2024, DHCS opposed
MCCN’s motion.
On January 16, 2024, MCCN replied
to DHCS’s motion.
MCCN’s motion for leave is now
before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Per DHCS’s request, the Court takes
judicial notice of the online, State-published biography of DHCS Director
Michelle Baass. (See Opp’n, RJN; see also Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h), 453,
subds. (a)-(b); Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire
Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 600 (Julian) [judicial
notice may be taken as to existence of document and legal effects deriving
therefrom].)
Per MCCN’s request, the Court takes
judicial notice of online, State-published employment history of Director
Michelle Baass and the CGGSA webpage containing the departmental organization of
the California Health and Human Services Agency. (See Reply, RJN; see also
Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h), 453, subds. (a)-(b); Julian, supra,
62 Cal.App.5th 583, 600 [judicial notice may be taken as to existence of
document and legal effects deriving therefrom].)
 
Motion for Leave of Court to File Fourth Amended Complaint

Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
Under California Rules of Court
Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall: 
(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge).)
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended
pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion
to strike are premature; however, the Court does have discretion to deny leave
to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a
matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment. (See California
Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281
(California Casualty), overruled on other grounds by Kransco v.
American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 403-406 (Kransco);
see also Kittredge, supra, at p. 1048 [“[E]ven if the proposed
legal theory is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the
amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings,’”
quoting California Casualty, supra, at p. 280].)
However, leave to amend may also be
properly denied when “the insufficiency of the proposed amendment is
established by controlling precedent and . . . [can]not be cured by further
appropriate amendment.” (California Casualty, supra, 173
Cal.App.3d at pp. 280-281; see, e.g., Foxborough v. Van Atta (1994) 26
Cal.App.4th 217, 231 (Foxborough) [not an abuse of discretion to deny
leave to amend when “proposed amendment would have been futile because it was
barred by the statute of limitations” with no indication of relating back to
the original complaint].) 
Further, if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial. (Roemer v. Retail Credit Co. (1975)
44 Cal.App.3d 926, 939-940 (Roemer).) In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party. (Id. at p. 940.) If the party seeking the amendment has
been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has
discretion to deny leave to amend. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490 (Hirsa).) Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v.
Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 (Magpali).)
Order Granting Leave to Amend:
GRANTED.
I. Briefing Before
the Court
Plaintiff MCCN has filed a motion
for leave to file a 4AC. The proposed 4AC alleges ten new causes of action
against four newly proposed individual Defendants, adds some of the individual
Defendants to the existing negligence claim, and adds facts to reframe the
lawsuit from being based on a negligence claim to three new federal law claims,
four breach of contract and quasi-contract claims, two interference with
contract claims, the previously stated negligence claim, reframed and expanded
to include individual Defendants, and one declaratory relief claim. MCCN has
attached a clean copy of the proposed 4AC and a redlined copy of the 4AC
showing differences with the operative TAC. (See Mot., p. 2 [“There are facts,
causes of action, and parties that need to be added to the complaint”]; Mot.,
Senelick Decl., Exs. A-B.)
The additional Defendants are
described as individuals who “were involved in the actions that led to the
improper temporary suspension [of MCCN’s Medi-Cal provider status]: (1)
Michelle Baass, Director of DHCS, who failed to provide even minimum
supervision for referrals to DOJ; (2) Deborah Manduca, Chief of the DHCS
Special Investigation Unit, who, for example, made a referral knowing it would
trigger an investigation and suspension without any effort to validate the
allegations; (3) Daniel Ibarra, a California Department of Justice Special
Agent who, for instance, knew the impact of the inadequate and dilatory
investigation yet caused the suspension to remain; and (4) and Bruce Lim,
Deputy Director of DHCS’s Audits and Investigations Division, who approved the
suspensions with knowledge there was no factual support for the allegations to
make the referral to DOJ.” (Mot., p. 3.)
The new causes of action are: (1)
Violation of Due Process as to Defendants Baass, Lim, Manduca Ibarra, as
individuals; (2) Violation Of U.S. Constitution Contracts Clause/Supremacy
Clause/42 U.S.C. § 1983 as to Defendants Baass, Lim, Manduca, and Ibarra; (3)
Violation of U.S. Constitution Takings Clause/Supremacy Clause/42 U.S.C. § 1983
as to Defendants Baas, Lim, Manduca, and Ibarra; (4) Breach of Written Contract
as to DHCS and Director Baass in her official capacity; (5) Breach Implied in
Fact Contract as to DHCS and Director Baass in her official capacity; (6) Quantum
Meruit as to DHCS and Defendant Baass in her official capacity; (7) Breach of
Implied in Law Contract as to DHCS and Defendant Baass in her official
capacity; (8) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations as to all
Individual Defendants; (9) Negligent Interference with Contract as to all
Individual Defendants; and (11) Declaratory Relief – DHCS and Defendant Baass
in her official capacity. The proposed 4AC retains its negligence claim but
alleges it as (10) Negligence as to DHCS and Defendants Baas, Lim, Manduca, and
Ibarra as individuals and modified the factual allegations supporting the
claim. (Mot., Senelick Decl., Exs. A-B; cf. TAC [single operative claim of
Negligence against DHCS alone].)
The proposed 4AC prays for: damages
in an amount to be proven at trial; for a declaration that MCCN’s temporary
suspension—suspension of provider status under Medi-Cal, as opposed to a
temporary payment suspension, which involves suspension only of ability to
collect monies from Medi-Cal program and ability to recover monies after
suspension favorably lifted—as well as DHCS’s refusal to reimburse MCCN were
invalid and unlawful, unconstitutional, or have been erroneously applied to
MCCN; costs and attorneys’ fees; punitive damages; and other and further legal
remedies and equitable relief as this Court deems appropriate and just. (Mot.,
Senelick Decl., Exs. A-B; cf. TAC, Prayer [“1. For restitution in amount of
approximately $9.9 million, plus applicable interest and costs; [¶] 2. For
other such relief as this Court deems appropriate and just.”].)
MCCN argues that in September 2023,
it obtained new counsel in this action, who discovered that facts in this case
gave rise to additional causes of action and defendants that were not asserted
by former counsel and that MCCN reached out to DHCS to stipulate to a 4AC,
which DHCS declined, leading to this motion. (Mot., p. 2, citing Mot., Senelick
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 5-6.) 
MCCN also argues that California
courts liberally allow amendments to add new causes of action and routinely
grant new counsel leave to amend, citing California authorities in support.
MCCN adds that DHCS will not experience prejudice for the amendment because
“the parties have not exchanged discovery responses, depositions have not been
noticed, no documents have been produced, and the Court has not even set a
trial date.” (Mot., pp. 4-6.)
MCCN attaches a declaration from
new counsel explaining the circumstances leading to the filing of this motion
and the proposed 4AC. (Mot., Senelick Decl., ¶¶ 1-7.)
In opposition, DHCS argues that
MCCN’s motion does not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324 and
that the proposed amendments are futile for at least 12 reasons, e.g.,
untimeliness, improper addition of Director Baass, applicability of immunities,
and individual arguments directed at specific causes of action. (Opp’n, pp.
9-21.)
In reply, MCCN argues that the
proper standard of review is not futility, but rather, prejudice to DHCS. MCCN
also addresses various arguments for why the proposed 4AC’s causes of action
are not time barred, untimely, insufficiently alleged, or improperly directed
at newly proposed Defendants (e.g., Director Baass). (Reply, pp. 2-11.)
II. California Rules
of Court Requirements
After review, the Court finds that
MCCN’s motion and the Senelick declaration satisfy the relevant rules of Court.
MCCN satisfies California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a)(1) by attaching a clean copy of the
proposed 4AC. (Mot., Senelick Decl., Ex. A.)
MCCN satisfies California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subdivisions (a)(2)-(3) by attaching a redlined copy of the
proposed 4AC, showing the additions and deletions from the operative TAC.
(Mot., Senelick Decl., Ex. B.)
MCCN satisfies California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subdivisions (b)(1)-(4) because the declaration makes
evident that: (1) the effect of the amendment is to (a) add ten new causes of
action, directed at four new Defendants, (b) amend the negligence claim, and (c)
reframe the constitutional, statutory, and contractual basis for this action
(Mot., Senelick Decl., ¶¶ 5-7, Exs. A-B); (2) the “amendment is necessary and
proper as it brings forth meritorious causes of action that former counsel did
not assert in the original complaint or in subsequent amendments” (Mot.,
Senelick, ¶ 5); (3) “[a]fter substituting into this matter and replacing former
counsel [on September 8, 2023], MCCN’s [new] counsel “discovered that the facts
at issue in this case give rise to additional causes of action that were not
asserted by former counsel” (Mot., Senelick Decl., ¶ 5); and (4) MCCN’s new
counsel promptly met and conferred with DHCS’s counsel regarding stipulating to
a proposed 4AC, to which DHCS did not assent, leading to this motion being
filed on October 13, 2023, where counsel represents that it filed this motion “at
the earliest possible opportunity following the substitution.” (Mot., Senelick
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7).
III. Futility, Prejudice,
and Delay
The Court begins by noting that it
sees potential issues with MCCN’s proposed amendments, as outlined in DHCS’s
opposition, and including but not limited to the statute of limitations being
triggered at injury and not at the denial of the government claim, and applicable
immunities.
The Court also recognizes that leave
to amend may be properly denied when “the insufficiency of the proposed
amendment is established by controlling precedent and . . . [can]not be cured
by further appropriate amendment.” (California Casualty, supra,
173 Cal.App.3d at pp. 280-281; see, e.g., Foxborough, supra, 26
Cal.App.4th at p. 231 (Foxborough) [not an abuse of discretion to deny
leave to amend when “proposed amendment would have been futile because it was
barred by the statute of limitations” with no indication of relating back to
the original complaint].)
However, here, the Court finds that
in light of the policy of liberally granting leave to amend, the preferable
procedure here would be to allow the amendment and permit a challenge to the
amended pleadings on demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings, or
otherwise. (Kittredge, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048 [“[E]ven
if the proposed legal theory is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be
to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings,’”
quoting California Casualty, supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at p. 280].)
Here, the merits (or lack thereof) of the proposed amendments are vigorously
disputed by the parties and the Court cannot determine at this time without targeted
briefing whether any of the proposed amendments should in fact be rejected as
futile. Whether they will survive a demurrer is another question.
To the extent that there has been
significant delay between the filing of the original Complaint in this action
on January 19, 2022 and the filing of this motion on October 13, 2023, the Court
finds that any such delay is not fatal based on the lack of insufficient
prejudice to DHCS. The negligence claim ultimately survived the challenges to
the initial four pleadings. The merit of the claims in the proposed 4AC is in
question. No written discovery, depositions, or production of documents appear
to have taken place in this action (Mot., Senelick, ¶ 4), and the Court has not
set a trial date. The Court may thus exercise its discretion to permit the
amendment despite MCCN’s possible prior knowledge of some of the newly proposed
individual Defendants or possible prior reframing of the pleadings as proposed
in the 4AC. (Hirsa v. Superior Court, supra, 118 Cal.App.3d at p.
490.)
MCCN’s motion is GRANTED. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff Mission City Community
Network, Inc.’s Motion for Leave of Court to File a Fourth Amended Complaint is
GRANTED.
Plaintiff Mission City Community
Network, Inc. shall file the proposed Fourth Amended Complaint within five court
days of service of this order.