  Case Number:  19STCV20094    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  2, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV20094




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Nora Meza




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, David Meza. The Court does not approve and DENIES the
petition based on the following reasons:
 
The Court denied the previous petition on September 12,
2023 for failing to attach medical records regarding claimant’s injuries in
item 6 and records of treatment in items 7 and 12. (Min. Order, 9/12/23.) In
this amended petition, Petitioner includes a letter from the Department of Health
Care Services, dated June 6, 2022, finding that Claimant is not eligible for
Medi-Cal. This letter does not indicate the extent of Claimant’s injuries. In
Petitioner’s previous petition for Claimant, filed on August 25, 2023,
Petitioner stated in item 7 that Claimant received treatment at St. Francis
Medical Center. However, in this amended petition, Petitioner states in item 6
that Claimant “[s]ustained bruises to his legs and knees, no treatment heal on
it’s own.”  The Court requires more
information on Claimant’s treatment and injuries sustained. 
 
Item 10 is improperly filled out. All Defendants who are
paying money to Claimant must be listed in 10b, with their respective amounts.
The amounts must equal the amount listed in item 10a. 
 
Item 11b(1) should not include the amount offered to
Claimant, but to all other plaintiffs or claimants. Similarly, item 11b(5)
should not include Claimant’s name or amount. Petitioner should include
attachment 11b(6) to explain the reasons for the apportionment of the
settlement between Claimant and each plaintiff. 
 
Also, in the Order to Deposit Funds in Blocked Account
(MC-355), Petitioner should list her name in item 1 instead of the Claimant’s
name. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 