 Case Number:  19STCV40369    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  2, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV40369




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/ Cross-Complainant Ben Behzadi




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ben
Behzadi (Behzadi), moves to Compel Cross-Defendant Jonathan Pae’s (Pae) response
to Request for Production of Documents, Set One. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Behzadi represents that he served a Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One on Pae on June 15, 2023. (Takaloo Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Pae’s
responses were due on July 18, 2023, but he failed to respond by the deadline.
(Id. ¶ 3.) Although not required, Behzadi sent Pae an email on July 24, 2023,
to inquire about the responses. (Id. ¶ 4.) An associate of Pae’s responded but
did not indicate if Pae would respond. Behzadi sent another email on August 1,
2023, and did not receive a response. (Id ¶ 6.) Pae did not file an opposition
to this motion. Accordingly, because no responses were served, the Court grants
the motion to compel.  
 
Behzadi
also requests $4,141.65.00 in monetary sanctions against Pae, representing an
hourly rate of $680.00 for 2 hours preparing this motion, 4 hours to read an
opposition, prepare a reply, and attend the hearing. This amount also includes
the $61.65 filing fee for this motion. The Court finds sanctions are warranted
because Pae has failed to respond. However, the amount requested is excessive due
to the type of motion at issue, the fact no opposition was filed, and because Behzadi
can appear remotely. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $741.65
(1 hour of attorney time to file and appear at hearing, plus the $61.65 filing
fee). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Behzadi’s Motion to Compel Pae’s Responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Jonathan Pae shall provide verified
responses, without objection, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Jonathan Pae in the reduced amount of $741.65. Said monetary sanctions
are to be paid to counsel for Defendant/ Cross-Complainant Ben Behzadi within
30 days of the date of this order.
 
Moving
party to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 