  Case Number:  20SMCV01690    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



ADAM J. TENSER,  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ROBERT
  JOSHUA RYAN, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  20SMCV01690
 
  Hearing Date:  May 14, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  Plaintiff's motion TO vacate
  Order dismissing defendants 
  pursuant to code civ. Proc. § 663
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Adam J. Tenser sued the County of Los Angeles (“County”) and six individual
employees of the county (“County Employees”)[1]
(collectively “Defendants”) following events surrounding the arrest and trial
of Plaintiff’s client, Blake Leibel, for murder.
The
complaint alleges the following facts: Plaintiff is an entertainment lawyer who
represents Leibel.  On May 26, 2016,
Leibel was arrested for the murder of Iana Kasian. Plaintiff met with Leibel
the following day at the county’s Twin Towers Correctional Facility, where
Leibel asked Plaintiff to find him criminal counsel.  Plaintiff did so and attempted to visit Leibel
with criminal counsel on June 7, 2016.  However,
they were denied attorney-client visitation. 
Plaintiff
attended a criminal hearing in late July 2016 with a criminal attorney and
attempted to substitute in as counsel but was denied.  Plaintiff was denied attorney-client visits
with Leibel beginning in August 2016.  He
sought relief through Defendant Jollif, the supervisor of the Twin Towers legal
intake unit, but Jollif denied Plaintiff’s request because Plaintiff was not
Leibel’s attorney of record and did not have a court order authorizing
visitation.  Leibel signed a notarized
agreement evidencing Plaintiff’s representation, but Plaintiff was still denied
a confidential attorney-client visitation. 
In
late August, Plaintiff contacted Defendant Miller of the county counsel office,
but Miller also denied Plaintiff’s request to visit Leibel absent a court
order.  Plaintiff was unable to provide
criminal counsel for Leibel, who instead used a public defender.  Plaintiff asserts that he was denied access to
confidential attorney-client communications with Leibel from August 1, 2016,
through June 28, 2018, the date of Leibel’s sentencing. 
Leibel’s
trial began in early June 2018, and Plaintiff attended, sitting in the gallery.
Leibel requested Plaintiff attend the trial and inform him of the civil consequences.  Prosecutors Mokayef and Silverman drew
attention to Plaintiff’s presence. The attention was enough that one juror
apparently asked about Plaintiff during voir dire. 
On
June 13, 2018, trial was adjourned for the lunch break, and due to issues with
the elevator, the hallway outside the courtroom became packed with members of
the press, jurors, witnesses, and counsel.  Defendants Silverman, Mokayef, and Martindale
were engaged in a boisterous conversation between themselves and witnesses,
including the victim’s mother and Martindale’s partner, detective William
Cotter.  The group was sharing their
opinions of the morning’s testimony and its effect on the case, and celebrating
their apparent progress towards conviction of Leibel. The discussion was taking
place within audible distance to the members of the press and the jury.  
Plaintiff
stood equal distance from the group as the nearest juror, to ascertain what the
jurors were hearing.  Detective Cotter
turned to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff said, “Your conduct is highly inappropriate
in front of the jury.”  Detective Cotter
replied, “Mr. Tenser I’m not interested in your opinion.”  Silverman then lashed out yelling, “This is
none of your business.” Plaintiff replied, “It is my business. I’m an officer
of this court and your opinion does not matter.”  Silverman and Mokayef then called Plaintiff a
“stalker” in the presence of the jury, witnesses and the press.  Mokayef later told the judge that Plaintiff was
“basically stalking” prosecutors, while Silverman added that Plaintiff should
known better as an attorney and either should act professionally or be ordered
out of the building.  Mokayef later
solicited a libelous e-mail from Ryan, a prosecution witness, alleging that Plaintiff
had accosted Ryan in the parking lot of the courthouse. On June 14, 2018, after
the lunch break, the same juror that had inquired about appellant during voir
dire expressed fear of appellant and was excused from jury duty. 
On
June 18, 2018, the court cited Plaintiff for contempt for following a juror in
his car, which Plaintiff denied, and ordered him to leave the courthouse for
the remainder of the trial. On June 20, 2018, Martindale executed a declaration
that Plaintiff claims mischaracterized the events described therein. The
declaration described Martindale witnessing repeated ethical and professional
lapses in Plaintiff’s behavior during the trial.  
This
action ensued.  The operative complaint
alleges claims for (1) intentional interference with contractual relations, (2)
defamation, (3) negligence per se, and (4) public entity liability.  
In
July 2021, the trial court sustained without leave to amend the County’s
demurrer to the first amended complaint on the ground that Plaintiff failed to
present a timely claim pursuant to the Government Claims Act (Gov. Code, § 810
et seq.).  The County was dismissed from
the lawsuit.  In July 2022, the trial
court sustained without leave to amend the County Employees’ demurrer on the
same ground.  A judgment of dismissal was
subsequently entered. Tenser separately appealed from the two dismissals.  The Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment.  
This
hearing is on Plaintiffs’ motion to vacate the order of dismissal pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc. §663.  Plaintiff argues that the Court (1) ignored the
legal standard for pleading pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §459; (2) applied the
summary judgment standard on a demurrer; (3) failed to take judicial notice of
official government acts of the County making false assertions of fact; and (4)
denied Plaintiff of procedural due process.
LEGAL
STANDARD
Section 663 empowers the trial court to set
aside a judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
663.)  A section 663 motion to vacate may
only be used to set aside a judgment based on a
decision of the trial court in a bench trial or a jury’s special verdict.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 663; Plaza Hollister Ltd. Partnership v. County of San Benito (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1, 14.)  Two grounds
warrant a motion to vacate a judgment: (1) an incorrect or erroneous legal
basis for the decision; and (2) a judgment or decree not consistent with or not
supported by the special verdict.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 663, subds. 1 and 2; APRI Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 176, 181.)
DISCUSSION
The
judgment Plaintiff seeks to set aside here was not based on a decision of the
trial court in a bench trial or a jury’s special verdict.  It was based on the Court’s decision on
demurrers, which notably were affirmed by the Court of Appeals.  Accordingly, Plaintiff cannot prevail on a motion
to seek to set aside the judgment pursuant to § 663. 
Moreover,
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 663,
a motion setting aside a judgment must be filed “[w]ithin 15 days of the date
of mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to
Section 664.5, or service upon him or her by any party of written notice of
entry of judgment, or within 180 days after the entry of judgment, whichever is
earliest.”  Here, notices of entry of the
judgments of dismissals as to the County and the individual County defendants
were served on Plaintiff on September 20, 2022 and December 12, 2022,
respectively.  Tenser therefore had until
October 7, 2022 and December 29, 2022, respectively, to file a motion under § 663.  Tenser’s motion was filed on April 4,
2024.  It is, therefore, untimely.
Further,
Code Civ. Proc. § 663a
subd. (b) states that “the power of the court to rule on a motion to set aside
and vacate judgment shall expire 75 days from the mailing of notice of entry of
judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5, or 75 days after
service upon the moving party by any party of written notice of entry of
judgment, whichever is earlier.”  Here
again, notices of entry of the judgments of dismissals as to the County and the
individual County defendants were served on September 20, 2022 and December 12,
2022, respectively.  Therefore, this
Court lost the power to rule on any motion under § 663 as of December 6, 2022 as to the County and
as of February 28, 2023, as to the individual County defendants.  
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion to vacate dismissal under Code Civ. Proc. §663.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: May 14, 2024                                                          ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court


