 Case Number:  23STCV02133    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
MIGUEL
  DIEGO BELTRAN,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
GENERAL
  MOTORS LLC and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV02133
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  01/31/23
Trial
  Date:  12/02/24



 
Hearing
date:  April 19, 2024
Moving
Party:  Plaintiff Miguel Diego Beltran
Responding
Party:  Defendant General Motors
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion is GRANTED. Defendant is to
provide supplemental responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
Nos. 13-16 and 34-35, and responsive documents within 20 days of this order. 
            The
request for sanction is GRANTED in the amount of $2004.15, payable within
30 days.
 
Background
            On
January 31, 2023, Plaintiff Miguel Diego Beltran (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) and DOEs 1 through
10, inclusive for (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3)
Violation of The Song- Beverly Act Section 1793.2; and (4) Violation of The
Song- Beverly Act Section 1793.22- Tanner Consumer Protection Act. 
            On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents (“RFPs”)(Set One). On April 3,
2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
Under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (a), and Section 2031.310,
parties may move for a further response to interrogatories or requests for
production of documents where an answer to the requests are evasive or
incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿¿ 
 
Notice of the
motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response,
otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Finally, Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request,
the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling
further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).¿ 
 
Discussion
            Notice
            Plaintiff
propounded Request for Production of Documents (“RFPs”)(Set One) on June 29,
2023 on Defendant. (Mot. 3:23-25, Ex. 1.) On July 31, 2023, Defendant allegedly
provided unresponsive, evasive, incomplete, and non-compliant responses. (Id.,
Ex. 2.) Defendant was granted an extension to respond to Plaintiff’s meet and
confer letter regarding further responses by August 31, 2023. (Yashar Decl. ¶
8, Ex. 4.) Therefore, the instant motion was properly noticed because it was
filed twenty (20) days after the supplemental responses were due. 
Meet and Confer
            Plaintiff
advances the declaration of Nadia Yashar, who attests to meet and confer
efforts prior to the filing of this instant motion. Yashar avers that she sent
Defendant a meet and confer letter specifying the deficiencies in the responses
to the RFPs on August 17, 2023. (Yashar Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 3.) Yashar had also set
a deadline for supplemental responses to be provided by August 24, 2023 unless
Defendant requested an extension in writing. (Id.) Defendant was granted
as extension to provide supplemental responses on August 31, 2023. (Id.
¶ 8.) Yashar declares no supplemental responses were provided making this
instant motion necessary. (Id. ¶ 9.)
            Therefore,
Plaintiff sufficiently attempted to meet and conferred on this matter prior to
bringing this motion. 
 
            Motion
to Compel Further Responses to RFPs 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant to provide verified, supplemental
further responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 13-16 and 34-35
as well as further and complete production of documents responsive to these
RFPs. Plaintiff argues the requested documents are needed to proceed with the
discovery of this case and evaluate the case and civil penalties. Specifically,
Plaintiff contends he seeks information regarding his vehicle, recalls and
technical service bulletins for the Subject Vehicle, and similar complaints
from consumers of the same year, make, and model as Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues it timely responded and/or served valid objections
to all discovery requests and has produced its Global Warranty History Report
for Plaintiff’s vehicle, 2018 Chevrolet Limited Warranty and Owner Assistance
Information, BARS invoice reflecting components included in Plaintiff’s vehicle
at the time of delivery, Retail Installment Sale Contract, any incidentally
obtained repair order for Plaintiff’s vehicle, Vehicle Summary and Repair Order
Details, Service Request, Owner’s Manual for Chevrolet Silverado, Product
Brochures for the Subject Vehicle, and a list of technical service bulletins
and information service bulletins issued for the Subject Vehicle. Defendant
further contends Plaintiff did not meet and confer in good faith because the
letter simply demanded supplemental responses. Moreover, Defendant contends its
objections should be sustained because it has already produced documents in its
possession relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and complaints by other vehicle
owners are not relevant. Defendant also contends Plaintiff does not need
information concerning their internal investigations, and/or analysis of
“defects” alleged in the Complaint, so RFPs Nos. 13016 are facially overbroad
but Defendant asserts it is willing to supplement its document production to
include other customer complaints within its ESI database that are
substantially similar to Plaintiff’s complaints concerning the alleged defects
for vehicles purchased in California of the same year, make and model as the
Subject Vehicle. Additionally, Defendant asserts Plaintiff does not need all
technical service bulletins and recalls sought in RFPs 34-35, which are
overbroad and beyond the claims and defenses of this matter. Lastly, Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s requests impermissibly seek trade secret material because
the Silverado and its components were manufactured with multiple complex
component parts and systems , many of which are supplied by third parties; the
documents may relate to and contain confidential communications between
Defendant’s employees and suppliers and/or sub-suppliers; some of the documents
may include personally identifiable information; and most Defendant’s employees
do not have access to its confidential engineering and business information. 
            In
reply, Plaintiff argues documents evidencing repurchases and similar complaints
in other 2018 Chevrolet Silverados are relevant and discoverable because it
tends to show whether a defect or nonconformity exists in these types of
vehicles and when this defect or nonconformity first arose, thus demonstrating
when Defendant knew about the defect and when their affirmative duty to
repurchase the vehicle arose. Furthermore, Plaintiff argues these documents
support Plaintiff’s claims for civil penalties because they are relevant to
determine whether Defendant willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act. Moreover,
Plaintiff contends Defendant cannot substantiate its trade secret objection and
must move for a protective order. Finally, Plaintiff asserts Defendant
completely refused to work with Plaintiff to locate documents responsive to
these requests during the meet and confer process. 
            Upon
review of the Separate Statements, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled
to code-compliant, objection-less further responses to Request for Production
of Documents Nos. 13-16 and 34-35. Each request seeks specific documents
related to repurchases by Defendant, complaints by other consumers, the number
of consumers who have complained, technical service bulletins, and recalls for
2018 Chevrolet Silverado vehicles that presented the same defects and
nonconformities as the Subject Vehicle. These requests are not narrowly
tailored to the same year, make, and model of the Subject Vehicle and only seek
those vehicles that presented the same defect and nonconformity as the one
Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant for repair. Additionally,
these requests are relevant to Plaintiff’s preparation of this matter and to
discover information potentially supportive of his civil penalties. Lastly,
Defendant has met its burden is showing that the material sought contact trade
secret information, did not seek a protective order, and did not provide a
privilege log identifying those documents which it believes may contain trade
secret information. 
            Therefore,
the motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents
is GRANTED. 
            Request
for Sanctions
            Where
the court grants a motion to compel further responses, sanctions shall be
imposed against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel, unless the party acted with substantial justification or the sanction
would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $2,004.15 for (1) 2.0 hours drafting this
motion; (2) 1.0 hour reviewing th opposition and drafting the reply; (3) 1.5
hours preparing for and attending the hearing on the motion at an hourly rate
of $425.00 per hour; (4) $91.65 for e-filing fee of this motion. 
            The
Court finds that Defendant has not shown it acted with substantial
justification in not providing further responses or that any other
circumstances would make imposing sanctions unjust in this case. 
            Therefore,
the request for sanction is GRANTED in the amount of $2,004.15 against
Defendant General Motors LLC and its counsel of record. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: 
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU