 Case Number:  23NWCV00020    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  C Eunice Thompson vs Lakewood Regional Medical
Center, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV00020
Hearing Date: March 12, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#5 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Southern California Permanente
Medical Group’s Motion for Summary Judgement is DENIED. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a wrongful death action. On January 7, 2023,
Plaintiff Eunice Thompson (Decedent Jesse L. Thompson's surviving spouse) filed
this action against Defendant Southern California Permanente Medical Group
alleging that it was negligent in its medical care and treatment of Decedent, resulting
in his death. 
Defendant Southern California Permanente Medical Group now
moves generally for a Motion for Summary Judgment.                                                                                                                 
Legal Standard 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)                                                                                             

“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c(p)(2).)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.) 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the                                                                                                                                                             party
opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th
at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
Discussion 
“[I]n ‘any medical malpractice action, the
plaintiff must establish: (1) the duty of the professional to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the professional’s negligence.’” (Powell v. Kleinman
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122, quoting Hanson v. Grade (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 601, 606.) “Both
the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by
expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)
 
Thus,
in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within
the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985
(citations omitted).)  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider.  (Starr v. Mooslin
(1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 988, 999.)
 
Here, Defendant submits the
expert declarations of Kevin Ehrhart, M.D. and Michael Bolaris, M.D. Dr.
Ehrhart opined that Defendant’s orthopedists met the standard of care at all
relevant times related to the treatment of Decedent’s left femoral neck
fractures/hip dislocations. (Ehrhart Decl., ¶ 35.) He asserts that Dr.
Batchelor’s decision to perform a left hip hemiarthroplasty, his performance
during the surgery, and his decision to discharge decedent in a brace were all
within the applicable standard of care. (Ehrhart Decl.,
¶¶ 36-38.)  Moreover, Dr. Kumar's
decision to perform a total left revision hip replacement procedure and his
performance during the surgery were within the applicable standard of care. (Ehrhart
Decl., ¶¶ 39-40.)  
The declaration of Mr. Bolaris
asserts that to a reasonable degree of medical probability, there is no
clinical indication that decedent’s hip incision (and/or hardware) from either
of the hip procedures were ever infected before he left Kaiser, decedent did
not become septic before he left Kaiser, decedent did not suffer from an MRSA
infection before he left Kaiser, and that the MRSA infection became septic due
to multiple medical comorbidities, including diabetes, immunosuppression,
hypertension, gammaglobulinopathy, and a history of UTI. (Bolaris Decl., ¶¶
43-46.)
“The
law is well settled that in a personal injury action causation must be proven
within a reasonable medical probability based upon competent expert
testimony.”  (Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163
Cal.App.3d 396, 402.)  “Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case.”  (Id.)  “There can be many
possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of circumstances which can
produce an injury or disease.”  (Id. at 403.)  “A possible
cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other reasonable causal
explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a result of
its action.”  (Id.) 
Here, Dr.
Ehrhart opines there were no negligence on the part of any of decedent’s
orthopedists which caused, or contributed to, any of Decedent’s alleged
injuries and/or death. (Ehrhart Decl., ¶ 43.) Further, Dr.
Ehrhart opines that decedent’s multiple traumatic dislocations after falling at
his home on or around 12/20, 12/22, 12/26, 12/29 and 12/31, all which caused
the ball to be tom out of the posterior capsule of the socket in his left hip, were
not impacted by Dr. Batchelor’s performance. (Ehrhart Decl., ¶ 44.)
With the declarations of Dr. Ehrhart and Dr. Bolaris and
the relevant facts therein, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to provide
contrary expert testimony.
Here, Plaintiff submits the
declaration of Randy Feldman, M.D. 
Dr. Feldman opines that care provided by Defendant was
below the standard of care. Dr. Feldman submits that appropriate workup and
treatment for high grade MRSA bacteremia/infection was not performed, the
pressure injury was a possible source of decedent’s bacteremia which caused or
contributed to decedent’s death, the decedent developed endocarditis possibly
as a result of the wound infection, and the high grade bacteremia was deeply
seated and present for a long time likely prior to the transport to Lakewood
Medical Center, and therefore fell below the standard of care. (Feldman ¶¶ 8-12.) 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s contrary expert testimony raises
a triable issue of material fact.   
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
DENIED. 