 Case Number:  23NWCV01569    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  C Lorena Quiroz vs American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Case No.: 23NWCV01569
Hearing Date: March 12, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#7
Tentative
Ruling 
     I.       
Defendant AMERICAN
HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED. Answer to be filed and served in 20 days. 
 
    II.       
Defendant AMERICAN
HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff
 to give notice.
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff Lorena Quiroz (“Plaintiff”)
filed her First Amended Complaint on August 8,2023. Plaintiff alleges that
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) did not disclose and actively
concealed defects involving transmissions affecting Plaintiff’s 2019 Honda
Odyssey. 
Plaintiff’s FAC asserts the following causes of action: (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act (Breach of Express Warranty); and (2) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment. 
Defendant generally demurs to the second cause of action. 
Second Cause of Action – Fraudulent Inducement
(Concealment) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of action is
barred by the economic loss rule. 
In Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 837, the Court of Appeal held that the plaintiff’s claim for
fraudulent inducement (concealment) was not barred by the economic loss rule.  Similar to the instant case, the Dhital
plaintiffs alleged that “Nissan, by intentionally concealing facts about the
defective transmission, fraudulently induced them to purchase a car.” (Id.
at 838.). The Court of Appeal ruled that “Robinson did not hold that any
claims for fraudulent inducement are barred by the economic loss rule. Quite
the contrary, the Robinson court affirmed that tort damages are
available in contract cases where the contract was fraudulently induced.” (Id.
at 839.) “[A] defendant’s conduct in fraudulently inducing someone to enter a
contract is separate from the defendant’s later breach of the contract or
warranty provisions that were agreed to.” (Id.) 
Here, Plaintiff base their claim on Defendant’s alleged
presale concealment, which is distinct from Defendant’s alleged subsequent
breach of its warranty obligations. Accordingly, based on the existing
persuasive authority— Dhital, the Court finds that the economic loss
rule does not bar Plaintiff’s claim. This
court is aware that this very issue is pending before the Supreme Court in Rattagan
v. Uber Tech., Inc. (Case No. S272113) and in Kia v. Superior Court
(Case No. S273170).  Until the Supreme
Court states otherwise, this court will follow Dhital for its
“potentially persuasive value” (CRC Rule 8.1115(e)(1)), and finds that
Plaintiff’s claim is not barred by the Economic Loss Rule. The
Court proceeds to assess Defendant’s arguments related to the merits of
Plaintiff’s claim. 
The elements of a
cause of action for intentional fraud are 1) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); 2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); 3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; 4) justifiable reliance;
and 5) damages. (See Cal. Civ. Code §1709.)
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud and deceit based on concealment
are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2)
the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,
(3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (f) the plaintiff must have been unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Marketing West, Inc.
v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.) 

Fraudulent inducement is a viable tort
claim under California law. ‘The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or
knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage. Fraud
in the inducement is a subset of the tort of
fraud. It ‘occurs when ‘the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent
is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed, which,
by reason of the fraud, is voidable.’”  (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 838-839.)
Here, Plaintiff
alleges at ¶¶ 23, 82-88 that Defendant concealed and failed to disclose facts
relating to the defects.  ¶¶91-98 allege
scienter and intent to induce reliance based on concealment.  ¶ 96 alleges Plaintiff’s resulting damages.
The court finds that the Complaint alleges sufficient prior
knowledge at this pleading stage. Less specificity is required if it appears from the nature of
allegations that defendant must necessarily possess full information, or if the
facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing parties.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384-1385.)
The Demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
Motion to
Strike 
Defendant’s accompanying
motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED. The
court finds that the FAC sufficiently pleads malicious conduct by
concealment.  Corporate ratification is
alleged at ¶7.  Less specificity is
required if it appears from the nature of allegations that defendant must
necessarily possess full information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge
of opposing parties.  (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-1385; Bushell v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 915, 931
- “plaintiffs did not have to specify the … personnel who prepared these
documents because that information is uniquely within … [defendant’s]
knowledge”.)
 