 Case Number:  20STCV17991    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  30 NANETTE PRICE vs CAL- QUAKE CONSTRUCTION, INC., A CORPORATION, et al.TENTATIVEDefendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner and Defendant Salvatore Martinez’s motions to strike are DENIED. Plaintiff to give notice.Meet and ConferBefore filing a motion to strike, the moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading in person or by telephone for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.(a).)The meet and confer requirements have been met. (Balich Decl., ¶ 6; Davis Decl., ¶ 5.)Legal StandardAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)DiscussionDefendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner move to strike portions of Plaintiff Nanette Price’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC) praying for punitive damages.To state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.) “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.) “Fraud” is defined in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)Here, the SAC alleges that Defendants Cal-Quake Goldberger, and Taferner instructed Martinez to violate the felony hit and run statute, Vehicle Code section 2000l(a), or ratified his conduct upon learning that he had done so. (SAC, ¶ 16.)Defendants, and each of them, attempted to deceive the police, and Plaintiff, about Martinez’s responsibility for the crash. Defendants Cal-Quake Goldberger, Taferner and Martinez misrepresented to the police investigator that Martinez was not involved in the crash, and thereafter actively worked together to conceal his involvement by, inter alia, destroying and failing to maintain the electronic information from the tracking and recording device in the commercial vehicle. (Id., ¶ 17.)The negligence and wrongful conduct of Defendants, and each of them, caused Plaintiff’s injuries and damages. Not only did the crash harm Plaintiff by causing her to suffer emotionally and physically, the related conduct of defendant Martinez in fleeing the scene, and defendants' related ratification and concealment of his involvement, aggravated or contributed to Plaintiff’s harm, injuries, suffering, and damages. (Id., ¶ 18.)The Court finds that the SAC sufficiently alleges facts to show that Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. The punitive damages claim is primarily based on the allegations relating to the alleged concealment of Defendant Martinez’s involvement in the collision at issue by Defendants. If Defendants believe they did not conceal Defendant Martinez’s involvement or that the basis for the punitive damages claim is not true, they are free to move for summary adjudication to provide evidence for this Court to make a determination, but at the pleadings stage, the allegations are sufficient.Defendants contend that the SAC does not allege that Plaintiff suffered further injury due to the hit and run. (See Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679, where the court found that a hit and run cannot give rise to damages unless the fact of the hit and run caused additional damages above and beyond the accident itself.) However, Plaintiff need not allege that in this case because as discussed above, the punitive damages claim is supported by the allegations relating to concealing Defendant Martinez’s involvement in this accident in order to deprive Plaintiff of her legal rights.Defendants also focus their attention on paragraph 18. However, paragraph 18 mostly relates to Plaintiff’s allegations relating to the cause of action for negligence, and not just the punitive damages claim. Therefore, this paragraph is not irrelevant, and thus, not subject to a motion to strike.In addition, Defendants Cal-Quake, Goldberger, and Taferner’s challenge to paragraph 18 is improper. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 435.5(b) (A party moving to strike a pleading that has been amended after a motion to strike an earlier version of the pleading was granted shall not move to strike any portion of the pleadings on grounds that could have been raised by a motion to strike as to the earlier version of the pleading.) Defendants Cal-Quake, Goldberger, and Taferner did not challenge paragraph 18 in their first motion to strike, and thus, could have raised this issue then but chose not to.Plaintiff’s request to set an OSC re sanctions for Defendants filing another motion to strike is denied. The Court did grant the motion in part, leading Defendants to file another motion.