  Case Number:  22PSCV01412    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   Plaintiff
Shelsey Mora’s (“Mora”) Motion For Leave To Add Alter Egos, Andrew Faour, An
Individual, Zain Diab, An Individual, And Liquorama, A California Corporation
is DENIED without prejudice. 
(2)   Plaintiff
Kathryn Reece-Mcneil’s (“Kathryn”) Motion For Leave To Add Alter Egos, Andrew
Faour, An Individual, Zain Diab, An Individual, And Liquorama, A California
Corporation is DENIED without prejudice. 
(3)   Plaintiff
Monique McNeil’s Motion For Leave To Add Alter Egos, Andrew Faour, An
Individual, Zain Diab, An Individual, And Liquorama, A California Corporation
is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
These are
employment/FEHA cases. 
 
Re Mora: Mora was hired as a server in February
2022. Mora experienced endured abusive language from fellow employees and
supervisors, screamed at Plaintiff front of customers, and was not permitted to
take an adequate number of meal and rest periods. 
 
Re
Kathryn: Kathryn
served as a general manager starting in January 2022. Kathryn alleges that an
employee fabricated allegations that Kathryn (White and English-speaking) is
racist to get Kathryn fired, but it was Kathryn who was discriminated against. 
 
Re
Monique: Monique
started her position as a server in February 2021. Plaintiff alleges that
throughout her employment, amongst not receiving adequate rest and meal
periods, one of the founding partners of Wicked Cow would grab her buttocks
from behind. 
 
On October
21, 2022, Mora filed suit for the following 8 COAs: 
 
1.    
Discrimination Based on Gender in Violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) (Gov. Code §§ 12940, et seq.) 2.
Discrimination Based on Race in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code §§ 12940, et
seq.) 3. Discrimination Based on Gender in Violation of the California
Constitution (Art. I, § 8) 4. Discrimination Based on Race in Violation of the
California Constitution (Art. I, § 8) 5. Harassment in Violation of the FEHA
(Gov. Code § 12940(j)) 6. Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code §§
12940, et seq.) 7. Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, &
Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(k)) 8. Failure to
Provide Meal & Rest Periods (Cal. Lab. Code § 512)   
 
On October
27, 2022, Kathryn and Monique filed their complaints for similar COAs with
additional COAs for: 9. Failure to Pay Earned Wages (Cal. Lab. Code §
204) 10. Failure to Pay [State] Minimum Wage, Including Overtime Compensation
at the Minimum Wage Rate (Cal. Lab. Code §§ 510, 1194, 1194.2, 1197, 1198; IWC
Wage Order No. 4-2001) 11. Failure to Furnish Complete and Accurate Wage
Statements (Cal. Lab. Code § 226(a)) 12. Non-payment of Wages When Due (Cal.
Labor Code § 218) 13. For Waiting Time Penalties (Cal. Lab. Code § 203) 14.
Failure to Timely Pay Wages Due at Termination (Cal. Lab. Code §§ 201, et seq.)[1]
 
On February 1, 2023, Defendant filed its answer in all three
cases. 
 
On December 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed three ‘Amendment[s] to
Complaint (Fictious/Incorrect Name)’ naming Liquorama, Andrew Faour, and Zain
Daib as Doe Defendants.[2]
 
Legal
Standard
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice and on any
proper terms, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a)(1); Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) The court may also, in its
discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may
be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and
may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by
this code. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a); Branick, supra, 39
Cal.4th at 242.)  The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if
there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Id.)  
 
Under California Rules of Court (CRC),
rule 3.1324, a motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy
of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered
to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) A
separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).)
Discussion
 
As all three motions, oppositions, and replies are
identical, the court will provide a consolidated analysis. 
 
Plaintiffs seek to add certain individuals and entities as
alter egos of the Defendant based on the unity of interest and ownership
between them. (Motions p. 2.) 
 
Frankly, the above is the extent of the “analysis” provided.
To the extent Plaintiff attempts to rebut Defendant’s contention in opposition
that the alter ego doctrine does not apply, it merely restates rules pertaining
to the doctrine without an analysis. Additionally, no proposed amendment is
provided. Lastly, no specifics about when it “became evident that certain
individuals and entities not originally named in the Complaint were directly
involved in the alleged wrongful conduct and should be added as alter egos of
the Defendant.” (Motion p. 5 of 11.)
 
All in all, the motion fails as it does not comply with CRC
and CCP requirements. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED without
prejudice. 


