  Case Number:  19SMCV00806    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  I Defendant, having won his summary adjudication motion as it
relates to plaintiff’s trade secret claim, seeks fees.  Section 3426.4 of the Civil Code, which is
part of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act, provides that a prevailing
defendant can recover reasonable attorneys’ fees if the action was brought in
bad faith.  Prevailing on summary
judgment does not, of itself, establish bad faith, but Moore contends that the
evidence adduced therein does. Plaintiff opposes the motion on its merits, but also
contends that the motion is premature because there is no final judgment.  The court agrees with Moore that a final
judgment is not required for the court to adjudicate this motion, but the court
agrees with plaintiff that it is the better course to decide this at the end of
the case rather than mid-stream. For the court to grant the motion, it would have to make a
finding that the cause of action was brought in bad faith.  That is a determination best made after a
full trial on the merits.  There could be
evidence adduced there as it pertains to the remaining causes of action that
sheds light on the question.  For
example, Moore asserts that plaintiff was motivated by spite and ill will.  And subjective bad faith, meaning motive, is
a part of the test.  (FLIR Systems,
Inc. v. Parrish (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1270 [defining the test as including
both objective and subjective elements].) 
A lot of the background in this case—irrelevant to the merits of the
summary adjudication motion—may come out in the broader trial that goes to this
issue.  To put it another way, the
subjective force of the cause of action was irrelevant to the summary
adjudication motion; the court was concerned only with the objective merits.  The fee issue is broader.   The court also notes that Moore intends to call live
witnesses at the hearing.  The court
typically does not hear live testimony on motions and it has no intent to do so
now.  It might (or might not) become
necessary to do so in the future, but the moving party’s belief that the court
must do so now confirms what the court already concluded: this motion is better
deferred to the end of trial than decided now. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE to
renewal at the conclusion of the case.

















  