  Case Number:  22PSCV01999    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative
Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANT
ROE SCHOOL DISTRICT’S NOTICE OF DEMURRER AND DEMURRER OF TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND
AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
(2)  
DEFENDANT ROE SCHOOL DISTRICT’S MOTION TO STRIKE
PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT is MOOT. 
 
The action
is dismissed. 
 
Background
 
This case arises from a sexual assault. Plaintiff John Doe
(“Plaintiff”) alleges the following against Defendant Roe School District:[1] In
1978, Plaintiff, when Plaintiff 14 years old, he was the victim of sexual abuse
by his then- English high school teacher, Fred Contreras (hereinafter, “Perpetrator”),
who is now deceased. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew or should have
known that the Perpetrator engaged in unlawful conduct and that Defendants
failed to take prevent such abuse.
 
On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On December 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed his FAC asserting the
following causes of action (“COA”): 1.    
Negligence 2.    
Negligent Supervision/Training/Hiring/Retention 3.    
Sexual Battery 4.    
Assault 5.    
Violation Of Civil Rights [California Civil Code
Sections 51.9] 6.    
Violation Of Civil Rights [California Civil Code
Sections 51.7, 51.9, 52, 52.1, 52.3 & 52.4] 7.    
Intentional Infliction Of Emotional Distress
 
On May 30, 2023, Defendants filed a demurrer with a motion
to strike (MTS), which the court sustained with leave to amend on 6/30/2023.[2] 
 
On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint
(SAC) asserting two causes of action for: 
 
1.    
Negligence
2.    
Negligent Supervision/Training/Hiring/Retention[3]
 
On August 30, 2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer
with an MTS. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed its oppositions to
the demurrer and MTS. 
 
On October 4, 2023, Defendant filed its Reply. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant only demurrers on the constitutional
defense. (See Notice of Demurrer p. 2:1-5.) Specifically, Defendant claims
Plaintiff’s complaint must be dismissed as the revival provisions of the Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 340.1 does not also revive the Government
Claim filing requirement, suggesting Government Code section 905 subdivision
(m) is unconstitutional. Defendant argues “the Legislature’s subsequent effort
to create liability where there previously was none by Assembly Bill (AB) 218)
constitutes an improper gift of public funds and violates California
Constitution, Article XVI, section 6.[4]
Accordingly, unlike its previous demurrer, Defendant has not demurred on
the grounds that the negligence-based causes of action fail to meet the
heightened specificity requirements for action(s) asserted against a public
entity. Had Defendant done
so, the court would have sustained the demurrer without leave to amend
because the SAC, despite previous leave to amend, fails to state any specifics
as to how and why the school district knew or should
have known about Contreras’ criminal conduct. In fact, the SAC,
while it withdraws a majority of the COAs, is largely similar to the FAC in the
nature of its substantive allegations. 
 
However, Defendant has also filed a MTS, which reads akin
to a demurrer because it references Plaintiff’s failure to abide by the
heightened pleading standard and assertion of vague facts. See, for example,
the following arguments: 
 
-       
 “However, as to
Plaintiff’s first two negligence claims, Plaintiff’s SAC continues to suffer
from the same deficiencies that exist in the FAC.” See MTS p. 3:2-3 
-       
 “[S]ome
allegations reference ‘mandatory duties’ but do not identify a statute; and
other allegations generally identify a statute but do not plead the allegation
with particularity, showing every fact essential to the existence of statutory
liability.”] p. 3:3:10-14
-       
 [“Causes of
action against a public entity must be pleaded with particularity, showing
every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability.” p. 4:4-5
-       
“Portions of Plaintiff’s First and Second Causes of
Action—claims for General Negligence and Negligent
Supervision/Training/Hiring/Retention—are uncertain, ambiguous, unintelligible
and fail to state a claim. It is difficult to decipher what claims
are being made against District and what the issues are.” p. 4:16-19
(emphasis and underline added). 
-       
“Plaintiff’s SAC must allege the ultimate facts
necessary to the statement of an actionable claim.” [internal citation
omitted]. The essential elements to be pleaded to state a cause of action are
determined by the substantive law. Portion of [the SAC] …simply reference a
statute but fail to discuss the requisite elements, are subject to striking as
these causes of action are ambiguous, uncertain, unintelligible, and fail to
state a claim.” p. 5:18-23.
-       
“Plaintiff’s Opposition not only falls short in
responding to District’s arguments but also fails to address the Court’s order
dated June 29, 2023. There, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s FAC, emphasizing
the need for particularity when pleading against public entities . . . . Yet,
the SAC continues to provide no discussion as to the elements of these claims
or how District allegedly violated these statutes. Instead, in a single
sentence, Plaintiff continues, without any basis, to assert District breached
these duties” (Reply p. 3:7-10)
 
“[A] motion to strike is generally used
to reach defects in a pleading which are not subject to demurrer. A motion to
strike does not lie to attack a complaint for insufficiency of allegations to
justify relief; that is a ground for general demurrer. [internal citation
omitted].” While labeled a motion to strike, it attacks Plaintiff’s negligence
COAs on the ground that the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, effectively seeking a judgment on the pleadings.  Thus, the court construes the MTS as a
demurrer. (See e.g., Navarrete v. Meyer (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1283 [“We ignore erroneous or confusing labels in the pleading and look to its
gravamen to determine what cause of action is stated.”]; see also Ferraro v.
Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 529 [“The
gist of these objections is that the complaint failed to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. This is ground not for a motion to strike, but
for a general demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) We will therefore view the order as one sustaining
such a demurrer without leave to amend. “].)[5]

 
To the extent that Plaintiff files an opposition, similar to
the opposition to the demurrer to the FAC, Plaintiff again claims that
it has provided the necessary certainty at the pleading stage without any such
showing. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, while the court acknowledges the
sensitivity and severity of the factual allegations against Contreras,
Plaintiff has not asserted how the District is liable. Therefore, the
court SUSTAINS the demurrer without leave to amend, rendering the MTS moot. 
 
 
 
 


