 Case Number:  22STCV15370    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Plaintiff’s Motion to Enforce Settlement.
BACKGROUND
This is an employment discrimination case filed by Plaintiff
Enrique Martinez (“Plaintiff”) against his former employers, Defendants
Marathon Industries, Inc. and Marathon Fleet Repair Services, Inc. (“Defendants”).

Plaintiff brings a motion to enforce Defendants’
signed acceptance of a Code of Civil Procedure Section 998 offer. Defendants oppose
the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure Section 998 (“Section 998”) provides,
in pertinent part:
(b) Not less than 10 days
prior to commencement of trial or arbitration (as provided in Section 1281 or
1295) of a dispute to be resolved by arbitration, any party may serve an offer
in writing upon any other party to the action to allow judgment to be taken or
an award to be entered in accordance with the terms and conditions stated at
that time. The written offer shall include a statement of the offer, containing
the terms and conditions of the judgment or award, and a provision that allows
the accepting party to indicate acceptance of the offer by signing a statement
that the offer is accepted. Any acceptance of the offer, whether made on the
document containing the offer or on a separate document of acceptance, shall be
in writing and shall be signed by counsel for the accepting party or, if not
represented by counsel, by the accepting party.
 (1) If the offer is accepted, the offer with
proof of acceptance shall be filed and the clerk or the judge shall enter
judgment accordingly.
A Section 998 offer must be written and sufficiently
clear to result in the entry of judgment or another final disposition of the
action. Berg v. Darden (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 721, 731-732.
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff seeks to enforce the signed Section 998
offer, which is attached as Exhibit B to the Declaration of Armond M. Jackson. Relevant
here, the Section 998 offer states that Defendants will pay Plaintiff in
exchange for “the execution and transmittal of a release of all current claims in
this underlying litigation by Plaintiff in favor of all the Defendants in this
action in full settlement of this action.” Jackson Decl., Ex. B, ¶ 2. While
Defendants signed the offer, the parties remain unable to agree on the terms of
the release. Under these circumstances, the Court finds that they have not settled
their case.
Notably, the Court previously found that the parties
did not settle and set the case for trial. Minutes entered 1/31/24. Plaintiff did
not raise an objection to the Court setting the case for trial. Indeed, after Plaintiff
received the signed Section 998 offer and the parties exchanged emails about
the release, the parties entered into a stipulation to continue the trial to
enable the parties to “resolve their dispute regarding the scope of a release
in this action that would constitute a complete settlement of this action.” Stipulation
filed 11/27/2023. Thus, the parties clearly have not settled the issue of the
scope of the release and therefore the case. 
The Court further finds that the parties expressly invoked
Section 998 as the settlement procedure, and not Code of Civil Procedure section
664.6. The settlement has failed because the parties have not agreed to the
material terms of a release or attorneys’ fees, which means that the accepted
offer lacks all the content needed to form a final judgment under either
statutory section.
Hence, the Court finds that the parties have not
mutually agreed to settle upon fully finalized terms.
 
CONCLUSION
The motion is denied.