 Case Number:  22STCV04785    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Demurrer Of Defendant, The San Gabriel Valley Council Of Governments, In
Furtherance Of The Alameda Corridor-East Construction Project, To Second
Amended Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
EL ADOBE APTS., INC. (Plaintiff) filed a Second
Amended Complaint (SAC), alleging that THE SAN GABRIEL VALLEY COUNCIL OF
GOVERNMENTS, IN FURTHERANCE OF THE ALAMEDA CORRIDOR-EAST CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Defendant) breached a written settlement agreement, by not timely transferring
real properties, such that the delays caused damages such as a temporary
inability to transfer the properties. E.g., SAC, ¶ 30.  Plaintiff alleges claims for (1) breach of
contract/specific performance, (2) quiet title, (3) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (4) declaratory relief.
Defendant requests an order sustaining the demurrer to
the Second Amended First Amended Complaint, as to the First, Second, Third and
Fourth Causes of Action. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Demurrers are to be sustained where a pleading fails
to plead adequately any essential element of the cause of action.  Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp. (1992)
4 Cal.App.4th 857, 879-880.
ANALYSIS
Grounds for the demurrer include that Defendant has conveyed
parcels 208-R, S and U to El Adobe (SAC, ¶14), rendering moot the claims for
specific performance, quiet title, and declaratory relief,  In addition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
failed (1) to attach exhibits A and B, (2) to verify the pleading as required
for quiet title, and (3) to comply with the Government Claims Act.
The failure to file a proper and timely opposition in
trial court creates a waiver of the issues on any appeal. Cabrini Villas
Homeowners Assn. v. Haghverdian (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 683, 693. A judge in
a civil case is not ”’obligated to seek out theories [a party] might have
advanced, or to articulate … that which … [a party] has left unspoken.’”
Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686. In order
to obtain leave to amend, complainants must state how the allegations would be
amended in order to state a cause of action. Drum v. San Fernando Valley Bar
Ass'n (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 247, 253.
A reading of the SAC reveals that Defendant’s
arguments are well-taken, such as exhibits missing from the pleading and the absence
of a verification.
Absent any opposition, the Court is left with nothing
to analyze in opposition to the demurrer. Notably, Plaintiff also failed to
meet and confer with Defendant in advance of the demurrer.  
 
CONCLUSION
The demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend,
based on all of its pages. Code Civ. Proc., 
§ 472d. 