  Case Number:  23VECV03369    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  W CARLOS AGUILAR v. P.F. CHANG'S III, LLC
 
defendant’s demurrer with motion to strike the first
amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        March 15, 2025                                 Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03369
 
Moving Party:            Defendant P.F. Chang’s China Bistro,
Inc. (erroneously sued and served as P.F. Chant’s III, LLC)
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Carlos Aguilar   
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Tsao Decl. ¶¶5-6.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a product liability action. Plaintiff alleges on August 4, 2021, Plaintiff
purchased and consumed fried rice from a P.F. Chang’s restaurant located in
Sherman Oaks and while consuming the fried rice, he bit into a metal object
resulting in injuries. On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc. (erroneously sued and served as P.F. Chant’s
III, LLC) (“P.F. Chang’s”) and Christine Doe for strict liability, negligence,
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, breach of the implied
warranty of fitness for intended purpose, negligent misrepresentation, and breach
of express warranty. Defendant Christine Doe is allegedly the supervisor and/or
manager of the Restaurant at the time of the incident. Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint on December 15, 2023. 
 
Defendant
P.F. Chang’s now demurs to the amended complaint as well as moves to strike
portions of the complaint. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant
P.F. Chang’s China Bristo, Inc.’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND;
Defendant P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part
and sustained in part with leave to amend. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant P.F.
Chang’s China Bistro, Inc. demurs to the fifth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation on the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action against Defendant. Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for attorney fees as well as each and every mention of “Defendant
CHRISTINE DOE” in the amended complaint.
 
Fifth Cause
of Action
 
Defendant demurs to
the fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation on the grounds the amended
cause of action continues to be defective as to the who, what, when, where,
how, by what means, and by what authority, required to allege a negligent
misrepresentation claim. 
 
“The elements of
negligent misrepresentation are: (1) the defendant made a false representation
as to a past or present material fact; (2) the defendant made the
representation without reasonable ground for believing it to be true; (3) the
defendant intended to deceive the plaintiff by making the representation; ‘(4)
the plaintiff justifiably relied on the representation; and (5) the plaintiff
suffered resulting damages.’  [Citation.]  (Hot Rods, LLC v.
Northrop Grumman Sys. Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1166,
1185.)  “The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege
the names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak
on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when the representation was made.” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.¿(2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793, citing Lazar v. Superior Court¿(1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
The new allegations
allege the following: Defendants P.F. Chang’s and Christine Doe made
misrepresentations that the fried rice was safe for its intended use and free
of metal objects when Plaintiff purchased fried rice from P.F. Chang’s on
August 4, 2021. (FAC ¶¶13, 33.) Defendants made the misrepresentation at the
time the fried was ordered, being prepared within the restaurant and/or being
delivered. (FAC ¶33.) Plaintiff relied on that representation and consumed the
fried rice. (FAC ¶33.) As a result of there being a metal object in Plaintiff’s
fried rice, he became injured. (FAC ¶33.) Plaintiff further alleges Defendants
knew or should have known that the representation was false, misleading and
inaccurate and made the representation with the intent to induce the Plaintiff
to enter into the transaction or otherwise detrimentally change Plaintiff’s
position regarding the ability, option, decision to purchase the fried rice.
(FAC ¶¶34-35.) 
 
Defendant argues
the newly added paragraph 33 does not identify the individual who made the
representation, the manner in which the representation was made (i.e., orally
in writing, or otherwise), where the representation was made, or the authority
of the unidentified speaker. Defendant contends these facts are required
components of pleading a misrepresentation claim. Further, by failing to allege
who made the representations, and to whom they were made, Plaintiff has not
even shown a misrepresentation was made to him, a necessary element of any
misrepresentation claim. (Gawara v. U.S. Brass Corp. (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1341, 1357 [indirect fraud requires plaintiff establish every link
in chain of misrepresentations].) Defendant further argues the amended
complaint again merely alleges in a conclusory fashion intent, reliance, and
causation. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues this case is merely at the initial pleading stage and as such,
the allegations are sufficient for a demurrer. Specifically, the allegations
sufficiently put Defendant on notice of the exact nature of the alleged
misrepresentation. Moreover, it can be inferred from the allegations in the FAC
that Defendant intended that Plaintiff rely on the representation that the food
was fit for consumption and free from metal objects and purchase the fried rice.
According to Plaintiff, the allegations also sufficiently establish that but
for Defendants representations regarding the quality of food, he would not have
purchased the fried rice, for its intended purpose, to consume. Lastly, even if
Plaintiff’s allegations regarding reliance are conclusory, that is sufficient
at this time.  
 
The court finds the
allegations insufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. The complaint still
does not adequately allege who made the statement, when, to whom, whether the
speaker lacked reasonable grounds for believe it to be true, and reliance.   Plaintiff has one more chance to amend the
complaint to allege these required elements. 

 
Accordingly,
Defendant P.F. Chang’s Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to
Strike 
 
Defendant P.F.
Chang’s moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for attorney fees as well as
allegations against “Christine DOE”. 
 
As for Plaintiff’s
prayer for attorney fees, the court agrees the allegations are insufficient.
Plaintiff does not address this contention in their opposition. Accordingly,
the court grants Defendant’s motion to strike, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, Plaintiff’s
prayer for attorney fees at this time, without prejudice to plaintiff seeking
leave to amend should discovery provide a basis for such fees.
 
As for the
allegations against Ms. Doe, Plaintiff argues the naming of “Christine DOE” is
essential to their allegations. Plaintiff contends if the court were to strike
the foregoing allegations, it would essentially result in the striking of
Plaintiff’s entire fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. The
court agrees with Defendant Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to
support a claim against Ms. Doe at this time. Plaintiff is given one more
opportunity to sufficiently allege facts against Ms. Doe. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED with Leave to amend.  The Request for Attorney fees is stricken. 