 Case Number:  24STCV14779    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
26, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Sarah
Farnam v. DOES 1 through 20
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV14779

 
MOTION
FOR LIMITED EXPEDITED DISCOVERY
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Sarah Farnam
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Non-party Google, LLC
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order granting leave to engage in limited and expedited discovery.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for leave to conduct limited-expedited discovery is GRANTED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff Sarah Farnam (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants DOES 1 through 20 (Defendants) with four causes of
action for: (1) Invasion of Privacy, (2) Conversion, (3) Unauthorized Access to
Computers in Violation of Cal. Penal Code § 502, et seq., and (4) Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief.
 
According to the Complaint, Defendants accessed Plaintiff’s
computer network without authorization. Plaintiff further alleges she
identified Defendants’ IP addresses but not their identifies.
 
On July 30, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for limited-expedited discovery. On November 13, 2024,
Non-Party Google, LLC filed an opposition. On November 19, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“In civil litigation, discovery
may be obtained from a nonparty only through a ‘deposition subpoena.’” (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader¿(2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.)¿“The Civil Discovery Act . . . authorizes a
nonparty’s ‘oral deposition,’ ‘written deposition,’ and ‘deposition for [the]
production of business records.’ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
Deposition notices may be served¿by¿a plaintiff¿without
leave of court 20 days after the “service of the summons on, or appearance by,
any defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.210, subd. (b).)¿“On motion with or
without notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant to a plaintiff leave
to serve a deposition notice on an earlier date.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.210,
subd. (b).)¿Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.210, subdivision (b)¿applies
to all discovery by deposition, including business records subpoenas to
nonparties. (Cal. Shellfish v. United
Shellfish Co.¿(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 16, 25 [“We conclude that the
deposition hold in section 2025, subdivision (b)(2) does apply to a deposition
subpoena seeking business records¿. .¿.”].)¿
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff contends the limited discovery is warranted
because it is narrowly tailored to seek relevant information to identify the
DOE Defendants and there is no other source where Plaintiff can obtain this
information. Google opposes the motion to the extent it seeks to compel
compliance with the already-issued subpoena. Google also argues that Plaintiff
has not shown good cause to issue a subpoena because the subpoena failed to
sufficiently identify a Google account.[1]
Plaintiff does not address Google’s concerns on reply but reiterates that she
has no other way to obtain Defendants’ identities than via the subpoenas.
 
Here, leave to
conduct limited-expedited discovery is warranted. First, no defendant has been
served with the summons, nor has any defendant appeared in this case. This is
because Plaintiff does not know the identity of the Doe Defendants and seeks,
by way of the deposition subpoenas, to discover their identities. Second, Plaintiff
can address Google’s concerns regarding lack of sufficient information in the
subpoena by issuing new subpoenas. It does not appear to the court that Google
contends Plaintiff lacks good cause for any other reason. Finally, no other
non-party deponent has filed an opposition.
 
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to conduct limited-expedited
discovery.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for leave to conduct limited-expedited discovery is GRANTED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              November 26, 2024                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


