  Case Number:  23SMCV03547    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Celious v. Nustats LLC, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV03547


Complaint Filed:


8-3-23 




Hearing Date:


5-14-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


9


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
PROCESS FOR LACK OF P/J
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Fred Gsell
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Aaron Celious
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Fred Gsell Motion to Quash Service of Process
for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant Fred Gsell RJN is GRANTED.  
 
REASONING
“California's
long-arm statute authorizes California courts to exercise jurisdiction on any
basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of California. A state court's assertion of personal jurisdiction
over a nonresident defendant who has not been served with process within the
state comports with the requirements of the due process clause of the federal
Constitution if the defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the
assertion of jurisdiction does not violate “ ‘traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice.’ ” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 434, 444, citing International Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945)
326 U.S. 310, 316; see Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10; see also Burnham v.
Superior Court (1990) 495 U.S. 604, 618–619.) “Personal jurisdiction
may be either general or specific.” (Vons Companies, Inc., supra,
14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
 
“When
a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction.” Vons Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 445.)
“Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established,
however, it becomes the defendant's burden to demonstrate that the exercise of
jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Ibid.)
 
I.               
Plaintiff Does Not Argue The Court Has General
Jurisdiction Over Gsell
 
“A
nonresident defendant may be subject to the general jurisdiction of the
forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are “substantial ... continuous
and systematic.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) Plaintiff Aaron Celious (“Celious”) does offer evidence
or argument to demonstrate that the Court has general jurisdiction over the
Defendant Fred Gsell (“Gsell”). Thus, Celious has not met their burden to
demonstrate general jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
II.            
Specific Jurisdiction 
 
As
the party asserting jurisdiction over Gsell, Celious is responsible for
establishing all elements of specific jurisdiction.  (See Ziller
Electronics Lab GmbH v. Sup. Ct. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.) 
“When determining whether specific jurisdiction exists, courts consider the
relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation. A court may
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2)
the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with
the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with
‘fair play and substantial justice.’” (Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung
Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553, citing Pavlovich v.
Supr. Ct. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268; Farina v. SAVWCL III, LLC
(2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 286, 294.)
 
A.             
Purposeful Availment
 
“The
purposeful availment inquiry focuses on the defendant's intentionality. 
This prong is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily
directs his activities toward the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of
the benefit he receives, to be subject to the court's jurisdiction based on his
contacts with the forum.”  (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at
269.)  “When a defendant purposefully avails itself of the privilege of
conducting activities within the forum State, it has clear notice that it is
subject to suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome
litigation by procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers,
or, if the risks are too great, severing its connection with the State.”  (Id.)
 
Purposeful
action directed at a forum resident has been described by the Supreme Court as
sufficient contacts for specific jurisdiction over a particular
defendant.  (See Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S.
462, 472.)  The purposeful availment requirement is intended to prevent
jurisdiction to be exercised over a non-resident based upon random, fortuitous
or attenuated contacts or of the unilateral activity of another party or a
third person.  (See Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 268.) 
“Parties who reach out beyond one state and create continuing relationships and
obligations with citizens of another are subject to regulation and sanctions in
the other State for the consequences of their activities.”  (Burger
King Corp, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 473; Hall v. LaRonde (1997)
56 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1344 [the use of electronic mail and the telephone by a
party in another state may establish sufficient minimum contacts with
California to support personal jurisdiction]; Stone v. State of Tex.
(1999)  
76 Cal.App.4th 1043,
1048–49.) “If the question is whether an individual's contract with an
out-of-state party alone can automatically establish sufficient minimum
contacts in the other party's home forum, we believe the answer clearly is that
it cannot. (Burger King Corp., supra, 471 U.S. at p. 478.)
 
            Gsell shows there was no purposeful availment because Gsell
was not a party to, nor involved with the contract at issue. Gsell was never in
California in a way that related to the allegations in the FAC, and Gsell “left
his employment at Nustats in 2012, which was prior to Nustats’ entering into
the Metro contract in 2014.”. (See Motion, p. 12; Gsell Decl. ¶¶ 2–11.) Further,
Gsell argues there was no purposeful direction because the allegations do not
show Gsell’s express aiming at California since no part of Gsell’s conduct
occurred in California. (See Motion, p. 12–13; Gsell Decl., ¶¶ 7–11.)
 
i.             
Personal Jurisdiction Based On Gsell’s Alleged
Torts
 
To
analyze specific jurisdiction for causes of action arising from torts,
California courts employ the “effects test “requiring the plaintiff to show (1)
the defendant committed an intentional tort; (2) the plaintiff felt the brunt
of the harm caused by that tort in the forum state such that the forum state
was the focal point of the plaintiff's injury; and (3) the defendant expressly
aimed the tortious conduct at the forum state such that the forum state was the
focal point of the tortious activity.” (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015)
233 Cal.App.4th 8, 19–20.) “To satisfy the third prong, the plaintiff must show
the defendant knew that the plaintiff would suffer the brunt of the harm caused
by the tortious conduct in the forum, and point to specific activity indicating
that the defendant expressly aimed its tortious conduct at the forum.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted.)
 
            Celious argues Gsell is subject to California
jurisdiction based on Gsell’s alleged torts More specifically, Celious argues Gsell
interfered with Celious’s “prospective economic advantage by falsely, and
fraudulently attributing Maroon Society’s contract experience to Nisha Shah for
the purpose of winning government contracts at the expense of Plaintiff’s
reputation and economic advantage” (Opposition, p. 4:4–6.) Celious further
argues that Gsell “prepared at least one bid” where Gsell attributed Celious’s “contract
and intellectual property to Nisah Sha in his bid. (Opposition, p. 4:16–18;
FAC, ¶ 91.) 
 
Celious
declares that he witnessed “Gsell working in-person in Los Angeles” between the
years 2009 and 2012 working to “train Maroon’s staff on Metro survey projects,”
and to collect and distribute survey materials to Maroon staff. (Celious Decl.,
¶¶ 6, 7.) Celious declares that between 2009 and 2012 Celious “had a working
relationship with Fred Gsell” where Celious observed Gsell “preparing bids in
response to California government,” and observed Gsell working with Celious’
partner Nisha Sha “to coordinate schedules” of the Metro Survey project staff.
(Celious Decl., ¶¶ 2–5.) 
 
Gsell
shows he was not involved with the alleged tortious interference as he was not
employed by Nustats at the time of the alleged contracting in 2014. (Gsell
Decl., ¶ 3.) Gsell shows the allegations of monetary loss as a result of the
alleged contractual interference is not tied to California, “as it would have
occurred in any state in which Plaintiff chose to locate himself and conduct
his business.” (Reply, p. 8; see Farris v. Capt. J.B. Fronapfel Co.
(1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 982, 900 [“No acts were performed
by Fronapfel in California. The only ‘effect’ of the fraud alleged to
have been committed by Fronapfel would be [plaintiff’s] loss of money on the
transaction. While it might be argued that there was an effect in California in
the sense that the loss of the ability to use and resell the vessel would take
place in California, the same could be said of every purchase that takes place
out of California with knowledge by the seller that the goods may be used in
California.”] 
 
Celious
has not provided any persuasive evidence to substantiate the claims other than providing
conclusory allegations and an email written on 8-22-22 from Celious to Gsell,
without a reply from Gsell, asking Gsell to” reframe[sic] from allowing Maroon
Society’s credentials to be misattributed to Nisha Shab d/b/a ANIK
International going forward.” (Celious Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 1.) “[M]erely
asserting the defendant knew or should have known that his or her intentional
acts would cause harm in the forum state is not enough to establish
jurisdiction. Rather, additional evidence of express aiming or intentional
targeting” is required to establish jurisdiction under the effects test.” (DVI,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1098–1099.) Celious’s demand
email and conclusory allegations do not establish that Gsell was involved in
the contract dispute at issue.  The Court
finds that Celious has not met the burden to demonstrate purposeful availment on
the basis of the tort claims.
 
B.
The Controversy Is Not Related To Or Arises Out Of The Defendant’s Contacts
With The Forum
 
A
lawsuit arises out of a defendant’s forum-related contacts if “there is a
substantial nexus or connection between the defendant’s forum activities and
the plaintiff’s claim.”  (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1068.)  The ‘arising out of or relating to’
standard is in the disjunctive, and is intended as a relaxed, flexible
standard.”  (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Limited (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1573.  “A claim need not arise directly from the
defendant's forum contacts in order to be sufficiently related to the contact
to warrant the exercise of specific jurisdiction.  Moreover, the forum
contacts need not be directed at the plaintiff in order to warrant the exercise
of specific jurisdiction.  Indeed, only when the operative
facts of the controversy are not related to the defendant's contact with the
state can it be said that the cause of action does not arise from that
contact.”  (Snowney v. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1054, 1068.) 
 
As
analyzed above, Celious does not provide any evidence to establish a
substantial connection between Gsell’s forum activities and Celious’s claim,
nor does Celious provide any additional arguments than stated above to meet
this requirement.
 
C. 
It Would Be Unreasonable For California To Exercise Personal Jurisdiction Over Gsell 
 
Once
a plaintiff shows that the nonresident defendant has “purposefully availed”
itself of benefits and protections of forum law, that defendant bears the
burden of proving it would be unreasonable for local courts to exercise
jurisdiction, i.e. violate notions of fair play and substantial justice.  (Burger
King Corp, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 475.) 
 
 In
determining whether assertion of jurisdiction would be unreasonable, the court
must consider (1) the burden on the defendant; (2) the forum State's interest
in adjudicating the dispute; (3) the plaintiff's interest in obtaining
convenient and effective relief; (4) the interstate judicial system's interest
in obtaining the most efficient resolution of controversies; and (5) the shared
interest of the several States in furthering fundamental substantive social
policies.  (See World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444
US 286, 292.)
 
Celious
has not shown that Gsell has purposefully availed himself to the California
courts, but even if Gsell had done so, Gsell meets his burden of proving it
would be unreasonable for California courts to exercise jurisdiction. Gsell is
a resident of Texas, he never lived or owned property in California, and worked
as project manager in Texas for a company based in Texas. (Gsell Decl., ¶ 2, 4,
5, 8.) Gsell declares he was not a party to the contract at issue, nor did Gsell
have “authority to contract with any party on behalf of NuStats.” (Id., 7;
see Clemens v. American Warranty Corp. (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 444, 452 [“Under
California law, only a signatory to a contract may be liable for any breach.”];
see also Mintz v. Blue Cross of California (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594,
1604 [“it is settled that “corporate agents and employees acting for and on
behalf of a corporation cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the
corporation's contract.”].) Gsell declares he has no documentation related to
the FAC in his possession, he did not “perform any job duties with respect RFIQ
No. PS4540-3200 referenced in the FAC in the State of California,” nor has Gsell
had any personal business dealings with Celious. (Id., ¶¶ 8–10.) 
 
Thus,
the Court finds it would be unreasonable for Gsell to be forced to defend
Celious claims in California.
 