 Case Number:  24SMCV00068    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Huttar v. Uber Technologies,
Inc.



Case No.:


24SMCV00068


Complaint Filed:


5-5-24 




Hearing Date:


5-14-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


10


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Uber Technologies,
Inc
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Shaun Huttar
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. Defendant proved the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement including a valid delegation clause. Plaintiff Shaun
Huttar did not meet his burden to prove a defense to enforcement of the
delegation clause. The action is stayed pending
resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4.
 
Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s
RJN is GRANTED.
  
REASONING
Under both the Title 9 section 2 of
the United States Code (known as the Federal Arbitration Act, hereinafter
“FAA”) and the Title 9 of Part III of the California Code of Civil Procedure
commencing at section 1281 (known as the California Arbitration Act,
hereinafter “CAA”), arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window Fashions
Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these
summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination.”
(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1284.)   “The party opposing arbitration
has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be
interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.” (Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citing Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v.
Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686-87.)   “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner…” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
“A party opposing the petition
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence any fact necessary
to its defense.” (Olvera v. El Pollo Loco, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
447, 453.) CCP §1281.2 only allows the Court to deny enforcement of an
applicable arbitration agreement where the party resisting arbitration
demonstrates (1) waiver; (2) grounds for rescission of the agreement; or (3)
subsection (c) grounds involving third parties to the arbitration agreement and
potential for inconsistent rulings of fact or law. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2.)
 
If the court
determines that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth
under subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration
agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single
action or special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all
or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have
agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
 
I.     
Uber Demonstrates Valid Arbitration Agreement including
the Delegation Clause
 
Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s
(“Uber”) move to compel arbitration based on the “Arbitration Provision” within
the Platform Access Agreement (“PAA”) Plaintiff Shaun Huttar (“Huttar”) initially
entered into on 1-29-15 22 when Huttar created an Uber Driver account within
the Uber Driver App, and subsequently entered into again through revised
agreements on 12-11-15, 11-25-19, 1-6-20 and 1-1-22. (Sauerwin Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7–20,
Ex. A–H.) Huttar’s opposition does not dispute Huttar entering into and agreeing
upon the multiple PAA’s containing the Arbitration Provision, and Uber provides
a spreadsheet purporting to show records of electronic receipt that Uber
received Huttar’s acceptance. (Sauerwein Decl.., ¶ 21, Ex. H.) The 1-1-22 PAA Arbitration
Provision states as follows:
 
IMPORTANT: PLEASE
REVIEW THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION CAREFULLY, AS IT WILL REQUIRE YOU TO RESOLVE DISPUTES
WITH US ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS THROUGH FINAL AND BINDING ARBITRATION, EXCEPT AS
PROVIDED BELOW. YOU MAY OPT OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION BY FOLLOWING THE
INSTRUCTIONS BELOW.
 
(a) This Arbitration
Provision is a contract governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1
et seq., and evidences a transaction involving commerce . . . . Except as it
otherwise provides, this Arbitration Provision applies to any legal dispute, past,
present or future, arising out of or related to your relationship with [Uber]
or relationship with any of [its] agents, employees, executives, officers,
investors, shareholders, affiliates, successors, assigns, subsidiaries, or
parent companies . . . , and termination of that relationship, and survives
after the relationship terminates.
 
. . . .
 
(c) . . . this
Arbitration Provision also applies, without limitation, to disputes between you
and us, or between you and any other entity or individual, arising out of or
related to your application for and use of an account to use our Platform and
Driver App as a driver, the P2P Service that you provide, background checks,
your privacy, your contractual relationship with us or the termination of
that relationship (including post-relationship defamation or retaliation
claims) . . . 
 
. . . .
 
[A]ll such claims
[shall] be resolved only by an arbitrator through final and binding individual
arbitration and not by way of court or jury trial. . . . [S]uch disputes
include without limitation disputes arising out of or relating to the
interpretation, application, formation, scope, enforceability, waiver,
applicability, revocability or validity of this Arbitration Provision or any
portion of this Arbitration Provision.
 
 . . . . 
 
13.3. Governing
Rules, Starting The Arbitration, And Selecting The Arbitrator. 
(a) For claims
involving use of the Platform and Driver App in California: The ADR Services,
Inc. Arbitration Rules (“ADR Rules”) will apply to arbitration under this
Arbitration Provision; however, if there is a conflict between the ADR Rules
and this Arbitration Provision, including but not limited to whether any
arbitration may proceed on an individual basis, this Arbitration Provision
shall govern. The ADR Rules are available by, for example, searching Google.com
to locate “ADR Services, Inc. Rules,” or by clicking here: https://www.adrservices.com/services/arbitration-rules/
. . . .
 
(Sauerwein Decl., ¶
19, Ex. G, §§ 13, 13.1, 13.3)
 
            Uber declares drivers can license Uber’s driving app
by first downloading and logging into the Uber Drver App “using a unique
username (the Driver’s email address) and password selected by the Driver to
create a Driver account.” (Sauerwein Decl., ¶ 7.) Uber declares that any
“Driver who wishes to access the Rides marketplace must first enter into a PAA.”
(Id., ¶ 8.) Sauerwein declares he is a Senior Manager for Corporate
Business Operations at Uber, and as result of this position he has “knowledge
of Uber’s operations and business model,” including “business records regarding
independent transportation providers who use Uber’s mobile application and the
trips they made using Uber’s software applications.” (Id., ¶¶ 2–3.)
Sauerwein declares that based on his review of “Uber’s business records,” Sauerwein
was able to attest to the “date and time stamps for when Huttar accepted each
[PAA] agreement.” (Id., ¶¶ 3, 20, Ex. H.)
 
 
            The Court finds that Uber has proven the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement, agreed upon by Huttar as part of multiple PAA
agreements. 
 
a.    
Law applicable to delegation clauses within
Arbitration Agreement
 
“When a dispute arises between
parties to an arbitration agreement, the parties may disagree not only about
the merits of the dispute but also about the threshold arbitrability
question—that is, whether their arbitration agreement applies to the particular
dispute.  The high court has recognized
that parties may agree by contract that an arbitrator, rather than a court,
will resolve threshold arbitrability questions as well as underlying merits
disputes.  Such threshold or ‘gateway’
questions of arbitrability include whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate
or whether their agreement covers a particular controversy.”  (Sandoval-Ryan v. Oleander Holdings LLC (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 217, 222–223 (quoting Henry Schein, Inc. v. Archer and White
Sales, Inc. (2019) -- U.S. – (139 S.Ct. 524, 527, 202 L.Ed. 2d 480).  
 
“Parties to an arbitration
agreement may agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a court,
questions regarding the enforceability of the agreement.  They can agree to arbitrate almost any
dispute—even a dispute over whether the underlying dispute is subject to
arbitration.”  (Tiri v. Lucky Chances,
Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.) 
“[A] party's challenge to the arbitration agreement does not invalidate
the delegation clause, and therefore the arbitrator, and not a court, must
consider any challenge to the arbitration agreement as a whole. Stated another
way, Rent-A-Center acknowledges that while courts may consider
enforceability challenges specific to delegation clauses, the arbitrator is to
consider challenges to the arbitration agreement as a whole.”  (Id. at 240 [adopting analysis under
FAA of delegation clause challenges versus challenges to arbitration agreement
in Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 72].)  
 
            “There are
two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language
of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. 
Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract
defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (Id. at 242.)
 
II.            
The arbitration agreements contain clear and
unmistakable delegation clauses
            
The Arbitration Provision contained
in the PAA contains a clear and unmistakable delegation clause stating the
arbitrator must decide “disputes arising out of or relating to the
interpretation, application, formation, scope, enforceability, waiver,
applicability, revocability or validity of this Arbitration Provision or any
portion of this Arbitration Provision.” (Sauerwein Decl., Ex. G at § 13.1(b).)
This language clearly and unmistakably delegates to the arbitrator questions of
the scope or applicability of the agreement to arbitrate, which includes the
arbitrability of specific claims. (see Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017)
13 Cal.App.5th 880, 892 [the language “the interpretation, validity, or
enforceability of this Agreement . . .  delegates
to the arbitrator questions of arbitrability and is clear and unmistakable
evidence that the parties intended to arbitrate arbitrability”]; see also Tiri,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 242 [clear delegation clause
where clause provided “arbitrator…shall have exclusive authority to resolve any
dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or
formation of this agreement”); Malone v. Supr. Ct. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1551, 1560 [delegation clause clear and unmistakable where clause provided
“arbitrator has exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to
interpretation, applicability, or enforceability of this binding agreement]; Sandoval-Ryan,
supra, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 223 [delegation language did not
clearly delegate arbitrability to arbitrator where language provided that
arbitrator would determine “validity, interpretation, construction, performance
and enforcement thereof” and “thereof” referred to admission agreement, not
arbitration agreement].) 
 
Huttar does not argue that the
arbitration agreements do not contain clear and unmistakable delegation clauses,
nor does Huttar challenge, or even mention, the delegation clause within his
opposition. Huttar argues the entire agreement is unconscionable but fails to
specifically target the delegation clause. Thus, Huttar has conceded that the
delegation clause is valid and enforceable, allowing for the arbitrator to
decide the arbitrability of the complaint. (See Rent-A-Center, 561 U.S.
at p. 72 [finding that because Plaintiff “challenged only the validity of the
[Arbitration Provision] as a whole,” and not the Delegation Clause, the
Delegation Clause was “valid under [FAA] § 2 and must [be] enforce[d] [] under
§§ 3 and 4,” thereby “leaving any challenge to the validity of the [Arbitration
Provision] as a whole for the arbitrator.”]
 
            Thus, the Court finds that the valid and unchallenged
delegation clause within the PAA Arbitration Provision mandates the arbitrator
to determine arbitrability, along with resolving any disputes arising out of or
relating to the interpretation, application, formation, scope, enforceability,
waiver, applicability, revocability or validity,” of the Arbitration Provision.
(Sauerwein Decl., Ex. G at § 13.1(b).)
 
            Uber’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
III.          
Stay pending
resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4 
            “If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this
State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration pursuant
to CCP §1281.4.