 Case Number:  23STCV08377    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CLIMATE
  INDUSTRIES, INC., 
  
         vs.
 
JUAN CARLOS
  REYES, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV08377
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 20, 2024



 
Moving Cross-Defendant Arc City’s motion
to compel arbitration of Cross-Complainant Juan Carlos Reyes’ claims in his
cross-complaint will be granted upon the payment of the filing fee for the
motion.  Only the Cross-Complaint in this
case is stayed pending arbitration.
The Court sets a non-appearance case review for November 20, 2025, at 8:30
a.m. for the Cross-Complaint.  The
parties to the Cross-Complaint are directed to submit a joint statement five
calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the status of the arbitration.
 
Moving Cross-Defendant Arc.City [erroneously sued as Arc City
General Contactor] (“Arc.City”) (“Moving Cross-Defendant”) moves[1] for
an order compelling arbitration of all claims asserted by Cross-Complainant
Juan Carlos Reyes (“Reyes”) (“Cross-Complainant”), dba Reyes Heating & Air,
in his cross-complaint (“Cross-Complaint”) and to stay the instant action
during the pendency of arbitration and/or continue trial.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§1281 et
seq., 1281.2, 1281.4.)[2]  
 
Background
On October 19, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed the instant Cross-Complaint
against Moving Cross-Defendant and Non-moving Cross-Defendants 2870 O
Consortium LLC (“2870 O Consortium”), and Live Work Create Equity LLC (“LWCE”)
(collectively, “Cross-Defendants”), asserting two causes of action: (1) breach
of contract; and (2) common counts in connection a subcontract agreement
entered into by Reyes and Arc.City on January 24, 2022.  (See Cross-Complaint §BC-1, Exh. A.)  Apparently because the motion was specially
set, Cross-complainant was able to file the motion without paying the requisite
$60 filing fee.
Moving Cross-Defendant filed the instant motion on November 12,
2024.  An opposition was filed November
18, 2024.  A reply was filed November 19,
2024.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
A.  Arbitration Agreement
1.    
The Arbitration
Agreement is enforceable.
California
law favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration Act
(“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99.)  The only prerequisite for a court to order
arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an agreement
to arbitrate the dispute.  (United
Transportation Union v. Southern California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
Moving
Cross-Defendant proved the existence of an arbitration agreement with Cross-Complainant.  Moving Cross-Defendant submitted evidence
that on January 24, 2022, Cross-Complainant entered into a contract with Moving
Cross-Defendant, which contained a section titled, “Dispute Resolution,”
(“Dispute Resolution Clause”) stating: 
Any controversy or claim
(except any claim for damages because of bodily injuries, including death at
any time resulting therefrom, sustained by any person or persons, and except
any claim for damages because of damage to or destruction of property) arising
out of, or relating to the Subcontract or its breach, which may arise between
the parties hereto and which is not resolved by the authorized representative,
shall be noticed in writing by the complaining party. Such controversy or
claims shall not cause the Subcontractor to interrupt the progress of Work and
the Subcontractor shall proceed to execute the Work in accordance with
Arc.City’s instructions. Such controversy or claim shall subsequently be
reviewed and discussed between the appropriate officers of Subcontractor and
Arc.City, followed by mediation and arbitration.
 
(Decl. of Bohannan ¶2, Exh. A at §20,
emphasis added.)  
          However, Moving Cross-Defendant’s
motion does not explicitly state that mediation will or has taken place, which
appears to be a co-requisite to arbitration in the Dispute Resolution
Clause.  (Decl. of Bohannan ¶2, Exh. A at §20 [“Such
controversy or claim shall subsequently be reviewed and discussed between the
appropriate officers of Subcontractor and Arc.City, followed by mediation and
arbitration.”], emphasis added.)  Because
the plain language of the Dispute Resolution Clause does not appear to require
mediation to occur before arbitration, such a co-requisite does not
function as a condition precedent to compelling parties to arbitration.
Based
on the foregoing, Moving Cross-Defendant proved the existence of a valid clause
to arbitrate that is enforceable by Moving Cross-Defendant.
 
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Dispute Resolution Clause states:
Any controversy or claim
(except any claim for damages because of bodily injuries, including death at
any time resulting therefrom, sustained by any person or persons, and except
any claim for damages because of damage to or destruction of property) arising
out of, or relating to the Subcontract or its breach, which may arise
between the parties hereto and which is not resolved by the authorized
representative, shall be noticed in writing by the complaining party.   
 
(Decl. of Bohannan ¶2, Exh. A at §20,
emphasis added.)  Cross-Complainant’s
claims arise from his Subcontract Agreement with Moving Cross-Defendant and are
therefore governed by the Dispute Resolution Clause.  Based on the foregoing, Moving Cross-Defendant
met its burden of establishing the Dispute Resolution Clause covers the causes
of action asserted in Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint.
 
B.
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Cross-Complainant bears the
burden of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable.  
Since
Cross-Complainant does not oppose the instant motion, Cross-Complainant
concedes its argument regarding the potential procedural or substantive
unconscionability of the Dispute Resolution Clause.
 
C.   
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
the Cross-Complaint is stayed pending arbitration.
 
D.  
Conclusion
Moving Cross-Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration of the Cross-Complaint is granted.  
The Cross-Complaint
is stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a non-appearance case review for November
20, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are
directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising
the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
 
Dated:  November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  