 Case Number:  EC068342    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JING MA, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
TOM LEE,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  EC068342
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO DISMISS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

August
   19, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This breach of contract action was
filed on March 29, 2018, by plaintiffs Jiang Ma and Hongshun Ma (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) against defendant Tom Lee aka Rui Jin (“Defendant”). Plaintiffs
allege that on or about January 8, 2016, they agreed to transfer certain shares
of Shanya Mengyue Cultural Communications Co., Ltd. to Defendant in exchange
for 42 million renminbi.  (Compl., ¶ 6.) Defendant
made the first payment of 10 million RMB under the agreement and received the
shares from Plaintiffs, but allegedly failed to make any other payments as
required.  (Compl., ¶¶ 7-8.)  The agreement is attached as Exhibit A to the
complaint and is written in Chinese.  (Compl.,
Ex. A.)  
On April 18, 2022, Defendant filed a
motion for forum non conveniens arguing that California was not a suitable
forum.  On May 24, 2022, the Honorable
Colin Leis denied Defendant’s motion, stating that Defendant made “no showing
that China has jurisdiction over this case (and the parties) and that this
lawsuit would not be barred in China.”  
On May 3, 2023, Defendant made an oral
request for dismissal at a final status conference.  On May 8, 2023, Defendant filed a brief
requesting dismissal based on forum non conveniens. On July 14, 2023, the Court
issued a minute order adopting a modified tentative ruling which stayed the
case. The parties stipulated that Defendant would not transfer, sell, or
encumber his property in Temple City or the three properties in China which he
listed in his reply brief filed on July 6, 2023. The parties also stipulated
that defense counsel would be authorized to accept service of a case that may
be filed in Hong Kong, China, or Singapore that is related to this case. An
order to show cause re: dismissal was scheduled for July 15, 2024. 
On May 14, 2024, Defendant filed
another motion to dismiss. On July 15, 2024, the parties informed the court
that no settlement had been reached. Defendant was ordered to reserve a hearing
date for this motion through the online Court Reservation System. 
The motion to dismiss is unopposed. 
II.     DISCUSSION
 “A defendant, on or before the last day of his
or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes…(2) To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of
inconvenient forum.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
418.10(a)(2).)  “When a court upon motion
of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice
an action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay
or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be
just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30(a).)
Once again, Defendant argues that China
is a suitable alternative forum and that this action should be dismissed
pursuant the doctrine of forum non conveniens. Defendant submits “new evidence”
which “conclusively establishes” that the courts in China provide an adequate
alternative forum because a court order shows that a civil suit filed on July
7, 2021, in the Intermediate People’s Court of Sanya City, Hainan Province,
China, concerned the same dispute arising from an “Equity Interests Transfer
Agreement”. (Motion, Ex. B.) Defendant claims that he was represented in this
case and defended through two litigation agents, Xinmin Hong and Shimiao Zhang.
(Ex. B, p. 2.) An order issued on November 10, 2023, shows that the Chinese
court terminated the case pertaining to this dispute so that a criminal
investigation against Defendant could proceed first. (Ex. B, p. 4.) A certified
translation of the order states that “it does not violate legal provisions to
apply to this court to withdraw the prosecution of this case on the grounds of
asserting rights including but not limited to filing a civil lawsuit again.” (Ibid.)
Based on this language, Defendant argues, Plaintiff has an adequate alternate
forum in which to pursue his claims against Defendant. 
The Court does not disagree that China
is a more suitable alternative forum, for the reasons stated in its previous
minute order issued over a year ago on July 14, 2023. Namely, there are no
issues with the statute of limitations and the private and public interests do
not favor retaining the action for trial in California because it concerns real
property in China, would involve applying Chinese law and interpreting
documents in Chinese (and that were issued by the Chinese government), and all
the key witnesses currently reside in China and Singapore. (Stangvik v.
Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) Because Plaintiff did not oppose
this motion or argue that he is prohibited from filing a civil suit against
Defendant in China, Defendant’s motion to dismiss is GRANTED.  
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 19th
 day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 