 Case Number:  23AHCV01932    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GARY SMITH, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01932
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST
   FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE) 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

August
   19, 2024




 


 


 



 
          Plaintiff Gary
Smith (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling Defendant General Motors LLC
(“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents (Set One), Nos. 10, 11, 20, 23-26, 28-29, 37-64, 67-70, and 72-86.  (Notice of Motion, p. ii.)  Plaintiff allegedly purchased a new 2020 Chevrolet
Bolt EV (“Vehicle”) and alleges that it was delivered to them with serious
defects and nonconformities to the warranty and developed other serious defects
and nonconformities to warranty including, and described as, “EV battery
module, potential high voltage battery fire, front seatbelt pretensioner, and
other defects”.  (Complaint ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
alleges that he would not have purchased the Vehicle if he knew it could not
drive 259 miles on a single charge or that it could not be charged in the
garage due to the risk of fire. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-12.) 
          Plaintiff
demands many documents relating to 2017 to 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles,
even though the Vehicle at issue in this motion is a 2020 model year. Plaintiff
offers no evidence that the defective parts or components in his 2020 Chevrolet
Bolt vehicle are the same parts or components used in Chevrolet Bolts from
different years. Plaintiff only alleges that the same “type” of battery is used
in them. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to show good cause for documents relating
to any other vehicles other than 2020 Chevrolet Bolt vehicles. Accordingly, Defendant’s
objections on the grounds that the requests are overbroad are sustained in part
and Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part as follows:
 
RFP Nos. 10, 20, 24 (all versions of the Warranty Policies
and Procedures Manual provided to authorized repair facilities within the state
of California effective from Plaintiff’s date of purchase of the Vehicle to the
present date, as well as all documents which refer, relate to, or concern the
handling of repeat complaints by customers regarding their vehicles or by
consumers regarding vehicles manufactured or distributed by Defendant.):
GRANTED.
 
RFP No. 11 (a copy of the Workshop Manual specifying
diagnosis and repair procedures for vehicles that are the same year, make and
model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle): GRANTED. 
 
RFP Nos. 23, 25, 26 (all documents from the date of
Plaintiff s acquisition of the Vehicle to the present date used to evaluate
consumer requests for repurchase, refunds, and replacements pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, including policies, procedures, and
instructions for employees and agents to follow when evaluating requests for
repair, refund, or replacement): GRANTED.
 
RFP No. 28-29 (all documents that refer, relate to or
concern policies and procedures for the issuance of recalls and technical
service bulletins): GRANTED.
 
RFP Nos. 37, 43 (documents, including but not limited to
electronically stored information, sufficient to establish the number of 2017
through 2022 Chevrolet Bolt vehicles manufactured by Defendant, including a breakdown
of the number of vehicles for each model year, the number of owners and lessees
who have complained about the battery or charging system, and the number of
vehicles which have been repurchased or replaced): GRANTED in part, Defendant
only needs to produce documents which pertain to vehicles that are the same
year, make and model as the Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
RFP No. 38 (all documents evidencing, relating, or referring
to complaints by owners and lessees of 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet
Bolt vehicles regarding the vehicles’ battery): GRANTED in part, only as to vehicles
that are the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle
 
RFP Nos. 39-42 (all documents evidencing, relating, or
referring to complaints by owners and lessees of 2017 through 2022 model year
Chevrolet Bolt vehicles regarding vehicle fires, the vehicles charging system
and a loss of power): GRANTED in part, only as to vehicles that are the same
year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
RFP Nos. 44-46 (all communications between Defendant and
NHTSA regarding 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt Vehicles, including
NHTSA complaints and early warning reports submitted to NHTSA): GRANTED in
part. Defendant must only produce those documents and communications relating
to the alleged defects involving the battery in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
RFP No. 47 (all “Transportation Recall Enhancement,
Accountability, an Documentation reports (“TREAD”) reports submitted concerning
2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles): GRANTED in part, only as to vehicles that are
the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle.
 
RFP No. 48 (all documents produced in any lawsuit concerning
defects in the battery and relate system): DENY. 
 
RFP No. 49 (all pre- and post-production tests, analyses,
investigations, demonstrations, or similar testing protocols concerning
possible defects in the battery and related systems in 2017 through 2022 model
year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles): GRANTED in part, only as to vehicles that are
the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
RFP Nos. 50, 54, 55 (all documents including emails,
international investigations, ESI, internal reports, PowerPoint slideshows and
internal analyses relating to battery testing performed before and after the
manufacture of 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles, as well as
investigations conducted or directed by Defendant regarding the battery and
vehicle fires in those vehicles): GRANTED in part, only as to batteries and
vehicle fires in vehicles that are the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s
Vehicle.. 
 
RFP No. 51: (documents which refer, relate to, or concern communications
between Defendant and authorized repair facilities concerning the battery and related
recalls in 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles): GRANTED
in part, only as to vehicles that are
the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle.  
 
RFP No. 52 (all documents which refer, relate to, or concern
any communications between Defendant and LG regarding the batteries in 2017
through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt Vehicles): GRANTED in part, only as to batteries
in vehicles that are the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle.

RFP No. 53: (all documents, including but not limited to, electronic mails,
internal investigations, electronically stored information, internal reports,
PowerPoint slideshows and internal analyses) which refer, relate to or concern
any communications between Defendant and LG regarding investigations of the
batteries in 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles): GRANTED in
part, only as to investigations of batteries in vehicles that are the same
year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle.
 
RFP Nos. 56, 61, 62, 63, 64 (copies of past, updated, and
current versions of certain recalls, as well as documents relating to
investigations relating to those recalls): GRANTED in part, only as to the
identified recalls which are applicable to vehicles that are the same year,
make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle and those vehicles with the same alleged
defects.
 
RFP Nos. 57, 58, 59, 60 (current, past, and updated versions
of customer satisfaction notices and programs, as well as documents
contributing to the issuances of those notices including communications with
LG, authorized repair facilities): GRANTED in part, only as to notices and
programs which apply to vehicles that are the same year, make and model as
Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
RFP Nos. 67-76: (current copy of certain recalls as well as
past and updated versions, documents discussing any contemplated future
updates, and all documents which contributed to the issuances of those
recalls): GRANTED in part, only as to recalls which apply to vehicles that are
the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle.
 
RFP Nos. 77-79 (documents from Defendant’s technical hotline
that refer, relate to, or concern communications with authorized repair
facilities regarding the diagnosis of repairs involving Plaintiff’s Vehicle, as
well repairs of battery related issues and vehicle fires in 2017 through 2022
model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles): GRANTED in part, only as to documents and
communications relating to the diagnosis and repairs of battery-related issues
and vehicle fires in vehicles that are the same year, make and model as
Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
RFP Nos. 80-81 (documents evidencing, relating, or referring
to the failure rates of the battery modules and battery packs in 2017 through
2022 module year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles): GRANTED in part, only as to the
failure rates of battery modules and battery packs in vehicles that are the
same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle. 
 
RFP Nos. 82-86: (documents evidencing, relating, or
referring to the number of warranty claims for the battery modules, battery
pack, as well as reprogramming of the hybrid powertrain control module, hybrid
propulsion control module, and “hybrid propulsion control module 2”): GRANTED in
part, only as to warranty claims for vehicles that are the same year, make and
model as Plaintiff’s Vehicle regarding the battery modules, battery pack, as
well as reprogramming of the hybrid powertrain control and hybrid propulsion
control modules.
 
Defendant shall provide supplemental
responses in compliance with this order within 30 days.   
Dated
this 19th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 