  Case Number:  23AHCV01417    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VINCENT DEROSA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COSTCO
   WHOLESALE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01417
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO PROTECT COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION’S
   CONFIDENTIAL DESIGNATION OF DOCUMENTS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   19, 2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiff Vincent Derosa (“Plaintiff”) filed
this personal injury action against defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation
(“Defendant”) on June 21, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that on July 10, 2021, he was
shopping at Defendant’s store when he approached a pallet (“Pallet”) which
contained new motion detector lights (“Product”). (Compl., ¶ 12.) Directly at
the top of the Pallet was a plexiglass display which had lights and gave
detailed information regarding the Product. (Ibid.) As Plaintiff began
placing boxes of the Product into his shopping cart, the display fell down and
hit him, causing him to fall to the floor and sustain severe injuries. (Id.
¶ 13.) 
On April 8, 2024, Defendant filed this
motion to uphold its designation of certain documents produced in discovery as
“Confidential” pursuant to a stipulation and protective order entered on
November 6, 2023. 
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief and evidentiary objections. 
On August 12, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
On August 14, 2024, Defendant filed a
notice of lodging stating that certain documents would be lodged conditionally
under seal for the purposes of this motion. The Court received the documents on
August 16, 2024. 
Discussion
Under the stipulated protective order,
a designating party has the right to designate as “Confidential” any documents,
testimony or information that it “in good faith believes to contain non-public
information that is entitled to confidential treatment under applicable law.”
(Garcia Decl., Ex. D, ¶ 2.) 
“In the event that counsel for a Party
receiving Documents, Testimony or Information in discovery designated as
“Confidential” objects to such designation with respect to any or all of such
items, said counsel shall advise counsel for the Designating Party, in writing,
of such objections, the specific Documents, Testimony or Information to which
each objection pertains, and the specific reasons and support for such
objections (the “Designation Objections”).” (Garcia Decl. Ex. D, ¶ 6.) Paragraph
6 also provides the following procedure for upholding any confidential
designations:
Counsel for the Designating Party shall
have thirty (30) days from receipt of the written Designation Objections to
either (a) agree in writing to de-designate Documents, Testimony or Information
pursuant to any or all of the Designation Objections and/or (b) file a motion
with the Court seeking to uphold any or all designations on Documents,
Testimony or Information addressed by the Designation Objections (the
“Designation Motion”). Pending a resolution of the Designation Motion by the
Court, any and all existing designations on the Documents, Testimony or
Information at issue in such Motion shall remain in place. The Designating
Party shall have the burden on any Designation Motion of establishing the
applicability of its “Confidential” designation. In the event that the
Designation Objections are neither timely agreed to nor timely addressed in the
Designation Motion, then such Documents, Testimony or Information shall be
de-designated in accordance with the Designation Objection applicable to such
material.
 
On December 26, 2023, Defendant
produced documents which it designated as confidential. On December 28, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter requesting that Defendant de-designate the
documents or file a motion to uphold the designations. (Garcia Decl., Ex. A.) The
letter did not specifically identify any document by Bates number, but stated,
“There is nothing confidential about the incident report, employee schedules,
or safety rules at the Costco store concerning, for example, “pallet stacking.”
(Id., p. 2.) Plaintiff also stated that the documents included improper
redactions and requested that Defendant provide a privilege log to support
those redactions or remove them and provide “clean copies.” (Id., pp.
2-3.) 
On April 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
sent another meet and confer letter which raised the issue of Defendant’s
obligation to file a motion to uphold its confidential designations. Plaintiff
stated that Defendant did not file a motion after Plaintiff sent its meet and
confer letter. Instead, Defendant had filed a notice of removal on January 17,
2024. Plaintiff reminded Defendant that since the action was remanded to state
Court on March 27, 2024, Defendant’s 30-day deadline to file a motion to uphold
its designation would expire on April 6, 2024. Due to the removal proceedings,
Plaintiff extended the deadline as a professional courtesy by two days to April
8, 2024. 
On April 4, 2024, Defendant sent a meet
and confer letter which argued that Plaintiff’s objections to its designations
were improper because Plaintiff did not identify the specific documents,
testimony, or information, and did not cite any reason for the objections other
than to say that “[t]here is nothing confidential.” (Garcia Decl., Ex. C.)           Plaintiff did not respond, so
Defendant filed this motion out of an abundance of caution to preserve its designations.
But, without identifying or providing any documents for review, Defendant has
essentially asked the Court to render an advisory opinion. 
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief in which his chief complaint is that Defendant did not include
any of the documents that are purportedly confidential. The Court notes that
this is a problem caused by Plaintiff’s own making because of its failure to identify
any particular documents either in his initial objections or in his failure to
respond to Defendant’s meet and confer letter sent on April 4, 2024. Even in
Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff fails to identify the documents by Bates
number and still vaguely refers to the documents as the incident report,
employee schedules, or safety rules regarding “pallet stacking.” 
On August 14, 2024, Defendant lodged 190
documents with the Court. There is no way for the Court to confirm before the
hearing that these are in fact the documents that Plaintiff obliquely
referenced in his objections. However, even assuming that they are, Defendant
offers no evidence to meet its burden of showing that they are confidential. Defendant’s
sole evidence in support of its motion is its counsel’s declaration which
states “[u]pon information and belief” that his client “seeks to maintain the
confidentiality of the documents . . . by requiring a protective order.”
(Garcia Decl., ¶ 8.) This statement lacks foundation because it is made on
information and belief; therefore, it is not competent testimony demonstrating
that the lodged documents are entitled to confidential treatment. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion is DENIED. Nevertheless, the Court notes that due to Plaintiff’s
deficient objections and steadfast refusal to identify the documents with
disputed designations with any specificity, the 30-day deadline to file a motion
to uphold the designations of the produced documents has not expired. Therefore,
the motion is denied without prejudice. 
Dated
this 19th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 