 Case Number:  21STCV07577    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LUCIA RODRIGUEZ 
  
        
  vs.
 
MARTINI ASSOCIATES DEVELOPMENT, LLC d/b/a
  LOS ANGELES ADVENTURE ALL SUITE HOTEL  
  


 Case
  No.:  21STCV07577   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 7, 2024




 
Defendant’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART.  
 
Defendant’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED as to the first, second, and fourth
causes of action. Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED,
WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the third cause of action. Defendant’s
motion is GRANTED as to Frank Marini with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
            On
2/25/2021, Plaintiff Lucia Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed suit against Martini
Associates Development, LLC d/b/a Los Angeles Adventure All Suite Hotel (Defendant),
alleging: (1) age discrimination; (2) disparate treatment of perceived medical
condition; (3) employment retaliation; and (4) wrongful termination. 
            
            Now,
Defendant moves for a judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Factual Background
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that she was wrongfully terminated after she returned from a two year
leave period. Plaintiff alleges that she during this leave period she was undergoing
treatment for breast cancer.   
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff has failed to alleged facts sufficient to state a claim
because she has not alleged Plaintiff was qualified to perform essential
functions of the job, she has not alleged retaliatory animus, protected
activity, or causation, the amount of money demanded is not stated in the
complaint, and Frank Martini is an individual not an employer.
 
            As
for the first contention, to establish a claim of disability discrimination
under the FEHA, an employee must plead facts establishing that (1) she has a disability
or medical condition; (2) she is qualified to perform the essential duties of
her position, with or without reasonable accommodation; (3) she suffered an
adverse employment action; and (4) the employer subjected her to the adverse
action because of her disability. (Id. at pp. 257–258, 261– 264; Nadaf-Rahrov
v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 962,
976–978.)   
 
Similarly, to
establish a claim of age discrimination, a “plaintiff must allege that the
plaintiff (1) is over the age of 40; (2) suffered an adverse employment action;
(3) was performing satisfactorily at the time of the adverse action; and (4)
suffered the adverse action under circumstances that give rise to an inference
of unlawful discrimination, i.e., evidence that the plaintiff was replaced by
someone significantly younger than the plaintiff.” (Sandell v.
Taylor-Listug, Inc., (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 321).
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts which could show that she was
qualified to perform the work when she returned from her disability leave after
two years.  However, Plaintiff alleges
that she was released to return to work without any restrictions by Plaintiff's
oncologist in September of 2019. (Complaint ¶ 6.) As such, this amounts to an allegation
that she was able to perform the essential functions of the job upon her
return. While Defendant disputes this, and submitted evidence to argue that
Plaintiff only underwent treatment for two months, this requires factual
determinations not properly made at this stage. 
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff alleges that when she was let go, her manager expressly said to her
“You are being let go because she you [sic] are too old and crippled.”
(Complaint ¶ 8.) While Defendant may dispute whether or not this was said, this
requires a factual determination which the Court may not properly make at this
stage.
 
Taken
together, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to
show disability and age discrimination. 
 
However, the
Court agrees that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support her
retaliation claim. 
 
The elements
of a claim for retaliation in violation of Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (h), are: “(1) the employee’s engagement in a protected activity .
. . ; (2) retaliatory animus on the part of the employer; (3) an adverse action
by the employer; (4) a causal link between the retaliatory animus and the
adverse action; (5) damages; and (6) causation.” (Mamou v. Trendwest
Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.) “Protected activity” under
Section 12940(h) means an employee “opposed any practices forbidden under
[FEHA] or…filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under
[FEHA].” (Cal. Gov. Code §12940(h).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff does not allege that she engaged in any protected activity which was
then causally linked to the decision to fire her. Leave to amend will be
granted to provide Plaintiff an opportunity to allege facts which could show
she engaged in protected activity.
 
As to the
third contention, Plaintiff’s Complaint includes a prayer for relief which
seeks, among other things, special, general, and exemplary damages according to
proof at the time of trial. These allegations are clearly sufficient, as an
estimate of damages will require discovery and expert testimony, neither of
which have occurred at the pleading stage.
 
Finally, as
for the fourth contention, Defendant argues that there is no individual
liability as to Mr. Marini who is not an employer. “Individuals who do not themselves qualify as
employers may not be sued under the FEHA for alleged discriminatory acts.” (Jones
v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1167) Here,
Plaintiff has not alleged acts which could show that Mr. Marini was her
employer. Plaintiff’s contention in opposition that he was “the contact person
with the Social Security Office” does not tend to show that he was her
employer. (Opp., 7:28-8:1.) While retaliation could plausibly support
individual liability here, Plaintiff has not alleged any facts which could show
that he was involved in the decision to terminate her, or could be liable under
this cause of action on some other basis. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted in part,
denied in part. Defendant’s motion is denied as to the first, second, and
fourth causes of action. Defendant’s motion is granted, with 15 days leave to
amend, as to the third cause of action. Defendant’s motion is granted as to
Frank Marini with 15 days leave to amend.  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 