 Case Number:  23TRCV02834    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Tuesday, May 21, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 9
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Johnna Lisa Ferguson v. Lyft, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV02834
1.      Lyft, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Lyft, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on August
29, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was involved in a
motor vehicle accident with a Lyft driver. According to the facts provided by
Defendant in its motion, Plaintiff was also operating a vehicle pursuant to the
Lyft platform at the time of the accident.
 
Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendant moves to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1280, et seq. and the FAA on the grounds that Plaintiff executed
an arbitration agreement wherein Plaintiff is bound to arbitrate the claims
alleged in the Complaint.
 
Defendant attached as Exhibits 1 to 8 to the
declaration of Paul McCachern the purported arbitration agreement. The relevant
provisions of the agreement states as follows: “DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND
ARBITRATION AGREEMENT [. . . ] YOU AND LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR
RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR
JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY ARBITRATION[.]” (Decl., Paul
McCachern, Exhibit 8 at ¶17(a).) The scope of the agreement covers “any
dispute, claim or controversy whether based on past, present, or future events,
arising out of or relating to…the Lyft Platform, the Rideshare Services…and all
other federal and state statutory and common law claims.” (Id.) 
 
Thus, the moving party met
its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause between
the parties. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the
arbitration clause should not be enforced. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th
at 1223. Plaintiff filed no written opposition to the motion. Plaintiff did not
meet her burden to show that the arbitration agreement should not be enforced.
 
Thus, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to
Stay Action is granted.  
 
An OSC re: Arbitration Status is set for
_________________.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.