 Case Number:  23AHCV00677    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
11, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         DIANA TURK BARNES,
Trustee of the DB Living Trust, dated April 29, 2022, v. JACOB S. SZYMANSKI and
CAROLINE F. SZYMANSKI, Co-Trustees of the Szymanski Community Property Trust
Dated December 6, 2018, and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00677
 
            
 
MOTION
TO APPOINT A RECEIVER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Diana Turk Barnes
(“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants
Jacob S. Szymanski and Caroline F. Szymanski (“Defendants”) 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 28, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed December 7, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 2, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for the
appointment of a limited receiver over Defendants’ property.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Diana Turk
Barnes’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that an adjacent property poses a risk to her
property. Plaintiff owns property located at 370 Sequoia Drive in Pasadena,
California (“Plaintiff’s Property”). Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Jacob S.
Szymanski and Caroline F. Szymanski (“Defendants”) own property located at 353
Anita Drive in Pasadena California (“Defendants’ Property”). Plaintiff alleges
that the two properties share a common slope and that the condition of
Defendants’ property poses a risk to her property. Plaintiff filed this
complaint on March 28, 2023, alleging six causes of action for (1) negligence,
(2) trespass, (3) deprivation of subjacent and lateral support, (4) nuisance,
(5) injunctive relief, and (6) declaratory relief. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion for the
appointment of a receiver is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves for the appointment
of a limited receiver over Defendants’ property. Although Plaintiff titles
her motion one for a “limited” receiver, in her notice of motion, Plaintiff
seeks a receiver to oversee the investigation, remediation, and all related
transactions related to the alleged dangerous slope condition on Defendants’
property, which forms the entire basis for this lawsuit.
 
            “A receiver
is an officer of the court and is subject to the court's continuing control; a
receiver only has those powers granted to it by statute or an order of the
court. [Citation.] The receiver, acting for the court, is not the agent of any
party but acts for the benefit of all holding an interest in the receivership
property.” (City of Sierra Madre v. SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 648, 657.) “Most matters related to receiverships rest in the sound
discretion of the trial court.” (Id. at p. 657.)


            Plaintiff
cites to two code sections as the legal basis for her current motion. The first
code section cited is Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(9),
which provides that a receiver may be appointed “[i]n all other cases where
necessary to preserve the property or rights of any party.” This section may
potentially apply here.
 
            The other
section cited by Plaintiff is Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision
(b)(1), which provides that a receiver may be appointed “[i]n an action by a
vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject
any property or fund to the creditor's claim, or between partners or others
jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the application of the
plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or interest in the property or fund,
or the proceeds of the property or fund, is probable,
and where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost,
removed, or materially injured.” This section, despite Plaintiff’s attempt to
cite only portions of the language, is not relevant in the present case. Thus,
the court will analyze Plaintiff’s motion under subdivision (b)(9). 
 
            Thus, the
issue presented is whether Plaintiff has demonstrated a sufficient threat to
the preservation of her property or property rights to justify the drastic
remedy of appointing a receiver over Defendants’ property.
 
            Plaintiff
relies primarily on the declaration of Sean D. Wilson ("Wilson"), an
engineering geologist, to support her claim that Defendants’ property require
immediate and drastic oversight. Wilson provides an unpermitted tennis court
was constructed on Defendants’ property between 1926 and 1944. (Wilson Decl. ¶¶ 8(a)-(b).) He also provides that a
near-vertical drop exists on property. (Id. ¶ 8(c).) He opines that the
slope will continue to erode and fail absent “immediate” measures. (Id. ¶
8(d).) He also references last year’s rain condition and the anticipated rain
conditions for the coming year to argue that slope presents a dangerous
condition. (Id. ¶ 8(f)-(i).)
 
            Additionally, Plaintiff argues that a receiver should be
appointed because Defendants’ property violates Pasadena Municipal Code section
14.05.170, subdivision (A), which provides that “[t]he slope of cut surfaces
shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use including landscaping or
vegetation for erosion control. Cuts shall be no steeper than 2 horizontal to 1
vertical.” Plaintiff also argues that other slope failures in the nearby area within
the last eighteen years support her motion. (Motion at pp. 10:16-11:10.)
 
            However,
despite her various contentions, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that a
receiver should be appointed in the present case. 
 
“Receivers are often legal luxuries,
frequently representing an extravagant cost to a losing litigant. When it
appears that no reasonably certain benefit will result to one litigant, and a
distinct disadvantage will result to another, courts should weigh carefully the
propriety of appointing a receiver.” (Elson v. Nyhan (1941) 45
Cal.App.2d 1, 5.) “Ordinarily, if
there is any other remedy, less severe in its results, which will adequately
protect the rights of the parties, a court should not take property out of the
hands of its owners.” (Alhambra-Shumway Mines, Inc. v. Alhambra Gold Mine
Corp. (1953) 116 Cal.App.2d 869, 873.) 
 
First, the court notes that in many cases,
a trial court appoints a receiver after the substantive issues have been
adjudicated. (See City of Sierra Madre v. SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. (2019)
32 Cal.App.5th 648, 653-54 [receiver appointed after court issued a preliminary
injunction ordering remediation of the property]; County of Sonoma v. Quail (2020)
56 Cal.App.5th 657, 665-66 [receiver appointed after stipulated judgment and parties’
failure to respond].) Here, Plaintiff seeks the appointment of a receiver before
any issues have been heard or adjudicated. 
 
Second, the evidence provided in
support of Plaintiff’s is insufficient to justify such a drastic remedy.
Plaintiff’s expert opines of a dangerous condition and possible harm in the future.
However, Wilson’s declaration is speculative and lacks reasoned support. To
borrow language commonly applied to the summary judgment standard, it is
insufficient for a party to provide “laconic expert declarations which provide
only an ultimate opinion, unsupported by reasoned explanation.” (Kelley v.
Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 525.) Wilson fails to establish why the
hazardous condition on Defendant’s property requires “immediate” remediation
other than speculatively asserting that this year’s rain could cause harm.
Wilson cites to evidence nor does he present analysis for why, despite the
hazardous condition existing for between 80 to 100 years, “immediate” measures
must be taken.
 
Third, the remainder of Plaintiff’s
argument fail to demonstrate that the appointment of a receiver is necessary. Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendant’s property violates the City of Pasadena’s municipal
code and her allegations that Pasadena has failed to order Defendant to remedy
the violation is not sufficient to establish wresting Defendants’ property
rights away from them. This is not a writ proceeding, and Plaintiff has failed
to establish why an alleged municipal code violation warrants such drastic
measures.  Further, Plaintiff’s citations
to three other cases within eighteen years is not sufficient to establish that
action must be taken now to remedy the alleged hazardous condition on
Defendants’ Property, which is not the property at issue in the other lawsuits.
 
Lastly, Plaintiff fails to cite legal
authority to support her claim. The two primary cases cited by Plaintiff for
the proposition that a receiver should be appointed are readily
distinguishable. In City of Sierra Madre, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 651,
the first case cited by Plaintiff, the issue on appeal was not the appointment
of a receiver but the issuance of a super-priority lien.
 
In City and County of San
Francisco v. Daley (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 737, the trial court had
entered judgment against owners of a residential property with numerous unsafe
conditions and found the property to be a public nuisance. After years of the
defendants’ noncompliance, the trial court ordered the appointment of a
receiver. (Id. at p. 741.) The appellate court affirmed the appointment
of a receiver and stated “[t]he procedural history of this case . . .
demonstrates beyond peradventure that this is an exceptional case warranting
the appointment of a receiver.” (Id. at p. 744.) The Court
stated that the trial court correctly appointed a receiver because the
defendants refused
to abate the public nuisance and code violations, transferred title to attempt
to avoid responsibility, repeatedly blamed each other, and failed to follow
court orders. (Id. at pp. 744-45.) 
            
            Here,
unliked in Daley, there has been no adjudication on the merits of the
case and there is no procedural history establishing Defendants’ noncompliance
with court orders. Thus, Plaintiff has not established that a receiver should
be appointed in the present matter.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion for the
appointment of a receiver is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 11,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
