  Case Number:  24STCV17073    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendants' Demurrer-without
Motion to Strike
            
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Mace Lombardo
filed this lemon law action against Defendants Ford
Motor Company (Ford), Galpin Ford (Galpin), and doe defendants 1 to 10
(collectively Defendants), alleging that he purchased a 2022 Ford F150 manufactured
by Ford, the vehicle exhibited transmission defects within the warranty period,
and Defendants failed to repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of
attempts. 
The causes of action are: (1) Violation of Civil Code 1793.2
subdivision (d); (2) Violation of Civil Code 1793.2 subdivision (b); (3)
Violation of Civil Code 1793.2 subdivision (a)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Merchantability; (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment and (6)
Negligent Repair. 
The motion now before the Court is Defendants’ Demurrer-without Motion
to Strike. Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
Defendants' Demurrer-without
Motion to Strike is overruled in part and sustained in part. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency
(2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without
leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of
action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can
be cured by amendment.”). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.
 
ANALYSIS
I. Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
First, Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to plead facts
sufficient to state a fraud claim.
“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1)
concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud
the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if
he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff
sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606.
A. Defect
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff failed to plead the defect in his own vehicle, instead
describing transmission defects that have occurred in other vehicles. In
support, Defendants cite Santana v. FCA US LLC, 56 Cal.App.5th 334, 345
(2020), which held that the “occurrence of a few defects that … were all
fixable, and mostly involved vehicles [plaintiff] did not own,” was
insufficient to support a jury verdict on fraudulent concealment claim against
the vehicle manufacturer.
 
This argument conflates sufficiency of evidence at trial with
sufficiency of pleadings. Here, Plaintiff alleges that Ford knew about specific
transmission defects in other vehicles equipped with the same model
transmission and that his vehicle manifested transmission defects. Compl. ¶¶ 12,
25, 26. Plaintiff describes the defects, which allegedly cause vehicles and
their 10-speed transmissions to experience hesitation and/or delayed
acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering
as the "Transmission Defect.".  Compl. ¶ 74. Plaintiff further alleges that
his vehicle suffered from the  “Transmission Defect.” Compl. ¶ 76. Whether
Plaintiff can prove Ford knowingly concealed transmission defects or that
Plaintiff’s vehicle suffered from the same defects are questions of fact. 
 
B. Specificity
Next,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to plead fraud with the requisite
specificity.
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged
factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of
“liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645. As concealment is a species
of fraud, it must also be pled with specificity. Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF
Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878. However, less
specificity is required where the defendant necessarily possesses the
information. Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) Moreover, it is not practical to allege facts
showing how, when and by what means something did not happen. Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement Sys. Planning Assn. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1356, 1384, However, if the concealment is based on providing false or
incomplete statements, the pleading must at least set forth the substance of
the statements at issue. Ibid.
Dhital v.
Nissan North America,
Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (Dhital) (rev. granted Feb. 1,
2023, S277568) addressed the sufficiency for concealment for pleading
purposes in fraud in a lemon law case. While this matter is up on review and is
not binding authority, it is persuasive authority. The Dhital court
found that it was sufficient that plaintiffs alleged a transmission defect in
numerous vehicles, including the plaintiff's, the defendant knew of the defect
and the hazards they posed, defendant had exclusive knowledge of the
defect and failed to disclose that information, defendant intended to deceive
plaintiffs by concealing known defects, the plaintiffs would not have purchased
the car if they had known of the defects, and they suffered damages on the sums
paid to purchase the vehicle. Here, Plaintiff pleads substantially the same
facts as Dhital.
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff entered into a warranty
contract with Defendants on 6/27/2022 (¶¶ 7-8); that Defendants knew of the
defects posed by the subject vehicle prior to Plaintiff purchasing the vehicle
and withheld from Plaintiff (¶¶ 72-74); that Defendant had superior knowledge
of the defects (¶¶ 23-31, 78); that the defects presented a safety hazard (¶33,74);
that Plaintiff would not have purchased the subject vehicle had they known
about the defects (¶ 76,); and that Plaintiff suffered damages (¶ 83). At the
pleading stage, these allegations are sufficient to assert a cause of action
for fraudulent inducement — concealment.
 
C. Duty to Disclose 
Additionally, Defendants
argue that because Plaintiff did not purchase the vehicle directly from
Defendant but from the dealership, Defendant had no duty to disclose material
facts. 
A duty to disclose a material fact can
arise “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” LiMandri v.
Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336. The latter three require a
transactional relationship between the parties. Id. at 336-337.
Transactional relationships include “seller and buyer, employer and prospective
employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
agreement.” Hong Soo Shin v. Oyoung Kong (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 498, 509,
(citation omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted).  
 
Defendants’ argument is similar to one
the court rejected in Dhital, which
the Court finds persuasive. In Dhital, the court held that at
the pleadings stage, it was sufficient for plaintiff to allege “that they
bought the car from the Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an
express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for
the purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers.” Dhital, supra,
84 Cal.App.5th 828
 
Defendants rely on Bigler-Engler v.
Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276 (Bigler-Engler), which held a
medical device manufacturer had no duty to disclose. However, the facts of Bigler-Engler
are distinguishable. In Bigler-Engler, the plaintiff rented a medical
device from her doctor, which she claimed caused serious injury to her knee. Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 286-292. The court, evaluating the plaintiff’s
claim against the device manufacturer for fraudulent concealment, held that
because there was no transactional or other relationship between the plaintiff
and the medical device manufacturer, there was no duty to disclose. Id.
at 312. However, the circumstances of buying a car are widely different
from renting a medical device. Doctors are not franchisees of medical device
companies, and patients generally do not choose their doctor based on their
desired model of medical device. People go to a Chevrolet dealer to buy a
Chevrolet, and they generally expect that the dealer is significantly under the
manufacturer’s control. See Daniel v. GM Motor Co. (9th Cir. 2015) 806
F.3d 1217, 1226-27 (noting auto manufacturers communicate with their consumers
through their dealerships). Moreover, unlike the medical device manufacturer in
Bigler-Engler, Defendant had a direct transactional relationship with
Plaintiff insofar as it made express warranties regarding the car.
 
D.
Economic Loss Rule
 
Next, Defendant argues that the economic loss rule bars
Plaintiff's fraudulent concealment claim. 
 
The economic
loss rule provides that “[i]n general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage. Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922 (quoting, Southern California Gas Leak Cases
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 391, 400). Furthermore, it “requires a [contractual party]
to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.”
Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v.
Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (Robinson). 
 
In Robinson,
supra, 34 Cal.4th at 988, the court explained the economic loss rules’
application to an intentional tort, specifically fraudulent misrepresentation,
in the performance of a contract.
The court
found that a parts supplier who falsely certified the parts were manufactured
according to contract specifications was liable in tort as well as breach of
contract. Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 991) “Because [the
supplier]’s affirmative intentional misrepresentations of fact (i.e., the
issuance of the false certificates of conformance) are dispositive fraudulent
conduct related to the performance of the contract, we need not address the
issue of whether [the supplier]’s intentional concealment constitutes an
independent tort.” Ibid.
 
Again
relevant, is Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 828, review granted Feb. 1,
2023, S277568. There, the court held, “plaintiffs’ claim for fraudulent
inducement by concealment is not subject to demurrer on the ground it is barred
by the economic loss rule.” Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 840. The
California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital and deferred further
action “pending consideration and disposition of a related issue in Rattagan
v. Uber Tech. Inc., S272113.” Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82.
 
Therefore,
the Supreme Court’s decision in Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024)
17 Cal.5th 1 (Rattagan) is highly relevant. Though it does not resolve
the specific issues raised in Dhital, the court held, “a plaintiff may
assert a cause of action for fraudulent concealment based on conduct occurring in
the course of a contractual relationship, if the elements of the claim can
be established independently of the parties’ contractual rights and obligations
and the tortious conduct exposes the plaintiff to a risk of harm beyond the
reasonable contemplation of the parties when they entered into the contract.” Rattagan,
supra, at 54 (emphasis added).
 
Moreover, the court’s discussion of the economic loss
doctrine strongly suggests it does not apply to claims of fraudulent inducement
by concealment. The court notes, “[i]t has long been the rule that where a
contract is secured by fraudulent representations, the injured party may elect
to affirm the contract and sue for the fraud.” Rattagan, supra, at 47
(quoting, Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645) (internal
quotation marks omitted). The
court rejects the argument that fraudulent concealment should generally be
treated differently from affirmative misrepresentation but acknowledges “unique
aspects of a claim of fraudulent concealment related to a contractual performance.”
Id. at 43 (emphasis added). Because parties may contractually
impose a duty of disclosure during performance or waive existing obligations to
disclose, the economic loss doctrine may apply to fraudulent concealment that
occurs during performance of a contract. Id. at 48-49. However, the
economic loss doctrine only applies if the risk of nondisclosure was
within the reasonable contemplation of the parties. Id.at 49. 
 
Because Rattagan
is clear that the economic loss doctrine has greater application to fraudulent
concealment during contract performance than inducement to contract, the Court
is persuaded that Dhital correctly held that the economic loss rule does
not apply to a fraudulent inducement – concealment claim. 
 
Defendants’ argument that the fraud
claim is simply that Ford breached the promises in its warranty fails because
it mistakes the nature of the fraud allegation as one of affirmative
misrepresentation rather than concealment. Unlike the cases Defendants cite,
Plaintiff is not arguing that the promises in Ford’s warranty were fraudulent,
but rather that Ford concealed material information. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the fraudulent inducement –
concealment claim. 
 
II. Negligent Repair Claim
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s negligent repair claim
is barred by the economic loss rule.
 In Sheen, supra,12
Cal.5th at p. 922, the California Supreme Court analyzed the application of the
economic loss rule to services and held it barred a borrower from pursuing tort
liability against the bank regarding seeking a loan modification because the
plaintiff’s damages arose from the mortgage, rather than an independent duty. Id.
at 930. The court distinguished professional cases in which a fiduciary or
quasi-fiduciary duty exists from ordinary commercial contracts. Id. at
929. 
Here, Galpin owed Plaintiff no other duty than that imposed
by their contract. Therefore, the economic loss rule applies.
Plaintiff argues that even if the economic loss rule
applies, the complaint does not state his damages were limited to economic
losses. Plaintiff’s argument that the economic loss rule does not bar recovery
in tort for damage to a vehicle caused by negligent repair of a component fails
because nowhere in the Complaint does Plaintiff allege that the dealership’s
negligent repair of the transmission caused damage to the vehicle, only that it
failed to repair it. Accordingly, the Court concludes that the economic loss
rule bars the negligent repair cause of action.
Even if the economic loss rule did not apply, Plaintiff
alleges that the repairs were covered under Ford’s written warranty and does
not allege that he paid any out-of-pocket expenses. As noted above, Plaintiff
fails to allege that the failed repair caused additional damage to the vehicle.
Accordingly, he fails to allege damages, a necessary element of negligence. See
County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th
292, 318 (“The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty, breach,
causation and damages”). 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the negligent repair claim is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is overruled. The demurrer to the sixth cause of action
is sustained with leave to amend. Plaintiff has twenty days to file an amended
complaint.

