 Case Number:  20STCV47061    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV47061




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Requests for Admissions, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant MHE Enterprises, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff Fatoumata Doukoure 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Defendant MHE Enterprises, Inc. (“Defendant”) now
moves for an order compelling Requests for Admission, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set Two propounded on
Plaintiff Fatoumata Doukoure (“Plaintiff”).
Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Requests
for Admission
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant asserts that it served Requests for
Admission, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set Two on Plaintiff on November 29,
2023. (Page Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The responses were due on December 29, 2023.
(Id. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff did not respond to the discovery. In opposition, Plaintiff
asserts she served verified responses on April 29, 2024. In reply, Defendant
does not dispute that verified responses were served. Any arguments that the
responses are in some way deficient are suited for a motion to compel further
(and not a motion to compel initial). Therefore, the motion to compel is denied
as moot.[1]
 
Defendant
requests $1,462.50 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of
record, representing an hourly rate of $165 and the $60.00 filing fee. Though
Plaintiff argues sanctions should not be imposed due to Defendant’s changing
stance that it owned the subject property, this does not explain why discovery
responses were not timely served. Therefore,
the Court finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff failed to timely respond.
However, the amount requested is excessive due to the type of motion at issue
and the fact counsel can appear remotely at the hearing. Therefore, the Court
awards sanctions in the amount of $472.50 (2.5 hours of attorney time, plus the
$60 filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel Requests
for Admissions, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set Two is DENIED. 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $472.50.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order. 
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 


