  Case Number:  20STCV31209    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV31209




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Crystal Spencer




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on March 4, 2024 by Petitioner Crystal Spencer (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Israel Mendez, age 14.
The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner asserts Claimant is fully recovered from a
fractured elbow injury. Petitioner must provide attachment 8 with copies
of medical records and/or a medical report or other evidence verifying
Claimant’s current condition.   
 
Petitioner must complete item 10a and 10c. 
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 12b(4)(c), a
copy of the Medi-Cal letter.  
 
Petitioner requests $30,000 in attorney fees which represents
40% of the gross settlement. The Court finds the declaration in attachment 13a
does not support the attorney fees sought. 
 
Petitioner must mark box 18b. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), it appears the $2,847.99
medical reimbursement should be placed in 8a(3), with the proper address to
Health Care Services provided. There is no indication that Petitioner or her
counsel paid this expense and seeks to be reimbursed.  Also, the $8,039.33 in 8a(4) should instead be
placed in 8a(2). Petitioner must complete item 9a.
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 