 Case Number:  22STCV31467    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV31467




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Discovery 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Roberto Espinosa 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On September 27, 2022, Plaintiff
Roberto Espinosa (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint involving a slip and fall at a
grocery store. Trial was originally set for March 26, 2024. 
 
            On December 14, 2022, Defendant
Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs (“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
 
            On March 8, 2024, the Court granted
in part Defendant’s ex parte application and continued trial to August 6, 2024.
All discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates remain associated with the
March 26, 2024 trial date “unless otherwise stipulated by the parties or
subject to any motion to reopen discovery.” (Min. Order, 3/8/24.) 
 
            On April 4, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to reopen discovery to run with the current August 6, 2024
trial date. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Gregory Stone, counsel for Defendant, states the
following: “I have met and conferred with plaintiff’s counsel on many occasions
to allow us to obtain these requested records. Plaintiff’s counsel refused.”
(Stone Decl. ¶ 6.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
seeks to reopen discovery as to damages only and to obtain Plaintiff’s mental
health records. First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff recently underwent a trial
cervical spine stimulator procedure and will undergo cervical spine surgery in
the coming weeks. Defendant has not obtained the relevant medical records for
this treatment. Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to disclose that
he was treating with Los Angeles County Health Department for 20 years. It argues
this is relevant since Plaintiff is alleging significant emotional distress,
depression, and anxiety due to the fall. (Motion, 6.) Defendant asserts this
fact was “buried within over 1,000 pages of medical records.” (Motion, 7.)
However, Defendant does not set forth when these medical records were produced.

 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant did not diligently conduct discovery. Plaintiff
confirms the trial spinal cord stimulator occurred on March 1, 2024, but
asserts the records were produced on March 12, 2024. (Opp., 5.) As for the
mental health records, Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s argument that he
omitted treatment from the Los Angeles County Health Department. (See Opp.,
7–8.)  Nevertheless, Plaintiff contends
that the only person deposed by Defendant was Plaintiff in December 2023.
Defendant has never demanded Plaintiff’s independent medical examination.
(Marchiondo Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
First, the
Court is unpersuaded that Defendant was prejudiced by Plaintiff’s counsel
filing this lawsuit almost two years after the incident. Defendant answered the
complaint in December 2022, and therefore had over a year to conduct discovery
on Plaintiff’s medical history and condition. 
 
In reply,
Defendant does not respond to Plaintiff’s assertion that he produced the trial spinal
cord stimulator records on March 12, 2024. Therefore, there does not appear to
be a sufficient need to reopen discovery surrounding that procedure if
Defendant already possesses the records. Additionally, since Defendant has
litigated this case since December 2022, it fails to set forth a basis to
reopen discovery on the general issue of damages. 
 
Turning to
the mental health records, Defendant provides Plaintiff’s response to Special
Interrogatory number 2, listing the names and addresses of all medical
practitioners Plaintiff has consulted in the last ten years before the
incident. The Los Angeles County Health Department was not included in the
responses. (See Stone Decl. ¶ 4.) Additionally, Plaintiff does not address this
point in opposition, or assert that he in fact informed Defendant of this
specific treatment. Therefore, because it appears Defendant acted diligently in
obtaining records of Plaintiff’s complete medical history and was not
affirmatively informed of the Los Angeles County Health Department records, the
motion to reopen discovery is granted in part. It appears the discovery may be
relevant to Plaintiff’s emotional distress claims and the limited discovery
would unlikely prevent the case from going to trial on August 6, 2024. 
 
Though Plaintiff
unsuccessfully opposed this motion in part, the Court declines to award
sanctions, finding he acted with substantial justification. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to reopen discovery is GRANTED in part. Discovery is reopened for the
limited purpose of obtaining discovery surrounding Plaintiff’s mental health
records with the Los
Angeles County Health Department. The discovery cut-off for this topic shall
run with the August 6, 2024 trial date. 
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 