 Case Number:  22STCV18975    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV18975




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Attendance and Testimony of PMQ 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Leticia Antonia Cazarez Cardoza  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 
Plaintiff Leticia Antonia Cazarez Cardoza (“Plaintiff”) now moves to
compel Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (“Defendant”)
deposition of its Person Most Qualified. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff
replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) 
 
“If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) 
 
The party served with a deposition
notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition
to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying
the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) If a motion is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450
(g).
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Ariella Perry states that Plaintiff’s counsel sent
a meet and confer correspondence on March 22, 2024. (Perry Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. 9.)
However, the declaration does not describe a meet and confer effort during the
previous attempts at noticing this deposition. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On February 27, 2024 and March 22, 2024, Plaintiff served a amended notices
of deposition for Defendant’s person most qualified (“PMQ”) set for April 10,
2024 and April 11, 2024. (Perry Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. 7–8.) The instant motion was
filed on March 25, 2024 on the basis that given the prior cancellations and
proximity to trial, Defendant might not produce PMQs for this deposition. 
 
However, in opposition, Defendant contends that it produced two PMQs
on April 11, 2024, and therefore, this motion is moot. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff agrees that the depositions took place, but argues
Defendant failed to produce a PMQ knowledgeable about category 1 (hiring and
training of Defendant Driver) or category 7 (the investigation of the
accident). (See Perry Decl., Exh. 10, Breland Depo. 9:4–5.) According to
Plaintiff, Defendant appears to assert a privilege surrounding the
investigation of the accident but has failed to produce a privilege log.
(Reply, 3.) As a result, Plaintiff moves to compel a PMQ to testify about these
categories. 
 
The opposition does not show that Defendant asserted objections to the
topics noticed for deposition. However, Defendant must “designate and produce
at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees,
or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters”
requested in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) In line with section
2025.230, “[i]f the subject matter of the questioning is clearly stated, the
burden is on the entity, not the examiner, to produce the right witnesses. And,
if the particular officer or employee designated lacks personal knowledge of
all the information sought, he or she is supposed to find out from those who do.”
(LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 939, 948–49 [internal
quotation omitted].) 
 
Here, the testimony transcript from Shonda Breland, Defendant’s PMQ, shows
she lacked knowledge of when the defendant driver was hired or if he had issues
at the four-week division training. (See Perry Decl., Exh. 10, Breland Depo. 11:8–17,
16:3–10.) Defendant has not filed a motion to quash or for a protective order.
Therefore, because it does not appear that Defendant produced a PMQ for
categories 1 and 7, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
The Court declines to award sanctions since
Plaintiff did not request any in the notice of motion.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant’s Person Most Qualified’s Deposition is GRANTED.
Defendant shall produce person(s) most qualified responsive to categories 1 and
7 within 30 days.   
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 