  Case Number:  22PSCV00553    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Shaozhang Li’s Application for Default
Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Shaozhang Li’s Application for Default
Judgment is DENIED without prejudice.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for breach of contract and fraud arising from a franchise
agreement. In December 2021, Plaintiff Shaozhang Li entered into an oral
agreement with Defendant An Ni in which Li agreed to pay $40,000 for a
franchise of Defendant Yomie Rice X Yogurt Inc. (Yomie Yogurt). After Li made
the payment to Defendant Zhao Wei Ding, who claimed to work for Yomie Yogurt’s
headquarters, Li alleges Ni, Ding, and Defendant Xiaotian Yin failed to take
any action and refused to return Li’s money. Li alleges on information and
belief that  Li and Ding were not
authorized to sell Yomie Yogurt franchises and did so with the intent to
defraud Li.
On June
8, 2022, Li filed a complaint against Ni, Ding, Yin, Yomie Yogurt, and Does
1-10, alleging (1) breach of contract and (2) fraud. On March 4, 2023, Li’s
process server personally served Ni and Yin in Portland, Oregon. On March 12,
Li’s process server personally served Yomie Yogurt in Diamond Bar. On March 14,
Li’s process server personally served Ding in Temple City.
On June
12, 2023, default was entered against Ni, Ding, Yin, and Yomie Yogurt. On
August 14, Li filed an amendment to the Complaint that corrected Ni’s name to Xiaofang
Tian. On January 9, 2024, Li dismissed Tian from the present action.
On January
11, 2024, Li submitted the present application for default judgment. An OSC Re:
Default Judgment is set for January 31.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Li seeks
default judgment against Yin, Ding, and Yomie Yogurt in the total amount of $40,635,
including $40,000 in damages and $635 in costs. For the following reasons, the
court DENIES Li’s application without prejudice.
To
support a default judgment, a complaint’s well-pleaded allegations must state a
cause of action. (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th
267, 281.) In this case, Li alleges two causes of action for breach of contract
and fraud.
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of
a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the
legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.) “[T]he vital elements of a
cause of action based on contract are mutual assent (usually accomplished
through the medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.” (Division
of Labor Law Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69
Cal.App.3d 268, 275.)
Here, the
Complaint alleges Li entered into an oral agreement with Tian to purchase a
Yomie Yogurt franchise. (Complaint, ¶ 22.) But the Complaint fails to allege
any facts that establish how Li entered into a contract with Yomie Yogurt,
Ding, and Yin. Furthermore, the Complaint contradicts itself by stating the
Defendants “did nothing” after Li made the payment while elsewhere alleging they
sent a contract to Li. (Complaint, ¶ 16-17.) Thus, the Complaint fails to state
a cause of action for breach of contract against Yomie Yogurt, Ding, and Yin.
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the
tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638,
quoting 5 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed. 1988) Torts, § 676, p. 778.) The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Id., at p. 645.)
In this case, the Complaint alleges Tian represented to Li
that Yomie Yogurt was a franchise business, had good tasting yogurt, and was
profitable. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) Putting aside the fact that this allegation is
not sufficiently pled with specificity and fails to demonstrate how this
representation was false, Li failed to allege any misrepresentations were made
by Yomie Yogurt, Ding, and Yin. While the Complaint does allege Ding claimed to
work for Yomie Yogurt’s headquarters, the Complaint failed to allege this
representation with the required specificity and failed to allege how this
representation was false. In fact, the Complaint suggests this was not a false
representation as elsewhere it alleges Ding was the managing member of Yomie
Yogurt. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) Thus, the Complaint fails to state a cause of action
for fraud against Yomie Yogurt, Ding, and Yin.
Last, to the extent Li seeks default judgment against Tian,
the court notes Tian is no longer a party to this action following Li’s
dismissal of Tian on January 9, 2024.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Li’s
application for default judgment is DENIED without prejudice.  The court is inclined to give Plaintiff leave
to amend the Complaint to correct the deficiencies note above.