  Case Number:  23STCV21986    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
5, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           S.T.
v. Eric Weinberg, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV21986

 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
MTV Networks Company (erroneously sued as “MTV Network, Inc.”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff S.T.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the Third Cause of Action for Sexual Harassment because the Complaint is
barred by the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action;
2.      Demurrer
to the Ninth Cause of Action for Negligence because the Complaint is barred by
the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action;
3.      Demurrer
to the Eleventh Cause of Action for Aiding and Abetting because the Complaint
is barred by the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action.[1]
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      MTV’s
Demurrer to the Third, Ninth, and Eleventh Causes of Action is SUSTAINED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff S.T. (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Eric Weinberg (Weinberg), Guitar and Pen
Productions, Inc. (Guitar and Pen), MTV Networks (MTV), and Liquid Theory, Inc.
(Liquid Theory) (collectively, Defendants) with eleven causes of action for:
(1) Sexual Assault, (2) Sexual Battery, (3) Sexual Harassment, (4) Gender
Violence, (5) False Imprisonment, (6) Assault, (7) Battery, (8) Intentional
Inflection of Emotional Distress, (9) Negligence, (10) Respondeat Superior, and
(11) Aiding and Abetting.
 
According to the Complaint, Defendant Weinberg sexually
assaulted and harassed Plaintiff while she was a working actress on Defendant
MTV’s show Death Valley. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants MTV and Liquid Theory knew about the assault but failed
to investigate it. 
 
On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Related Case
to thirteen pending cases pending in Dept. 62 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
 
On October 16, 2023, Defendant MTV filed an Opposition to
Plaintiff’s Notice of Related Cases.
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendant MTV filed the instant
Demurrer. 
 
On December 18, 2023, Defendant Liquid Theory, Inc. filed an
Answer.
 
On December 22, 2023, Defendants Eric Weinberg and Guitar
and Pen Productions, Inc. filed an Answer.
 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to
Defendant MTV’s Demurrer.
 
On January 29, 2024, Defendant MTV filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Demurrer  
 
The grounds for a demurrer must
appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a); Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Ibid.) 
¿ 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual, material
allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.¿ App. 3d 593,
604.) But this does not include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or
law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary
to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿ (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at p. 318.) 
¿ 
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.10(e), the party against
whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that
the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer if there is a reasonable
probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 31 Cal. 4th at p. 745.) 
 
Meet and Confer  
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) &
(3).¿ Here, according to the Declaration of Emma Luevano, the parties met and
conferred via mail on October 25, 2023 and November 7, 2023 and telephonically
on November 9, 2023. (Luevano Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.) The parties were unable to reach
and agreement. (Id. at ¶ 4.)
Accordingly, the meet and confer requirement is met.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Statute of
Limitations
 
MTV contends that Plaintiff does
not plead any instance of sexual assault prior to 2011, a cover up of a sexual
assault, or that MTV worked in concert with anyone to hide a prior instance of
sexual assault. MTV also contends that Plaintiff did not plead that MTV was
motivated to incentivize individuals to remain silent and to hide specific
information from either the public at large or from Plaintiff.[2]
Plaintiff argues that CCP 340.16 clearly applies to her claims for sexual
harassment, negligence, and aiding and abetting against MTV. Plaintiff
additionally argues that she alleged facts that MTV knew Defendant Weinberg had
or would commit sexual assault/battery against persons on MTV’s set, like
Plaintiff, and that MTV knew of Defendant Weinberg’s past history of sexual
abuse and that Plaintiff’s incident was not the first incident reported to MTV.
MTV replies that Plaintiff alleged conclusions, not facts, supporting her
reliance on CCP 340.16.[3]

 
“In any civil action for recovery of damages suffered as a
result of sexual assault, where the assault occurred on or after the
plaintiff's 18th birthday, the time for commencement of the action shall be the
later of the following: (1) Within 10 years from the date of the last act,
attempted act, or assault with the intent to commit an act, of sexual assault
against the plaintiff.” (CCP § 340.16(a)(1).) “This section applies to any
action described in subdivision (a) that is based upon conduct that occurred on
or after January 1, 2009, and is commenced on or after January 1, 2019, that
would have been barred solely because the applicable statute of limitations has
or had expired. Such claims are hereby revived and may be commenced until
December 31, 2026.” (CCP § 340.16(b)(3).) “Subdivision (a) is not limited to
causes of action for sexual assault/battery: it applies to ‘any civil action
for recovery of damages suffered as a result of sexual assault.’” (Jane Doe #21 (S.H.) v. CFR Enterprises, Inc.
(2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1199, 1209.)
 
For this statute to apply, a plaintiff must allege all of
the following: “(A) The plaintiff was sexually assaulted. (B) One or more
entities are legally responsible for damages arising out of the sexual assault.
(C) The entity or entities, including, but not limited to, their officers,
directors, representatives, employees, or agents, engaged in a cover up or
attempted a cover up of a previous
instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of such
abuse.” (CCP § 340.16(e)(2)(A)-(C).) “Cover up” means a concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual
assault that incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents information
relating to a sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the
plaintiff, including, but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements
or confidentiality agreements.  (CCP §
340.16(4)(A).) “[N]othing in the language of the statute requires that the
alleged cover up involve a previous instance of sexual assault by the same
individual who later assaulted the plaintiff.” (Jane Doe #2, supra, at p. 1212.) 
 
Here, the parties dispute whether Plaintiff sufficiently
pled the cover up requirement for CCP § 340.16 revival to apply. Upon reviewing
the Complaint, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged that MTV “engaged in a
concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault from becoming
public or being disclosed to the plaintiff” as the statute requires. First,
Plaintiff alleges, on information and belief, that MTV “deliberately failed to
investigate the report of sexual assault due to Weinberg’s position within the
entertainment industry.” (Compl. ¶ 12.) Second, Plaintiff alleges that after
she reported the sexual assault to MTV’s producers, she was contacted by MTV’s
legal department for a statement and heard nothing further. (Compl. ¶ 28.) Third,
Plaintiff alleges that MTV contracted with Defendant Weinberg “knowing that he
was a sexual predatory and was likely to use his position to sexually abuse
and/or assault women . . . .” (Compl. ¶¶ 97, 111.) These are not allegations of
a prior cover up. Nor are they allegations “that incentivizes individuals to
remain silent or prevents information relating to a sexual assault from
becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff.” 
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS MTV’s demurrer to the
Third, Ninth, and Eleventh Causes of Action as barred by the applicable
statutes of limitations.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend should be liberally granted if there is a
reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.)¿ The Plaintiff has the burden of
demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can
be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his
complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.) Here, Plaintiff requested leave to amend but provided the legal
standard for leave to amend rather than demonstrating that any defects can be
cured by amendment. The Court will give
Plaintiff an opportunity to be heard at the hearing on this issue. Absent a
showing of a reasonable possibility of being able to amend the pleadings to
cure the noted defects, the Demurrer will be sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      MTV’s
Demurrer to the Third, Ninth, and Eleventh Causes of Action is SUSTAINED.
Pursuant to CCP § 581d, this written
order of dismissal constitutes a judgment and shall be effective for all
purposes. The Clerk shall note this judgment in the register of actions in this
case.  
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              February 5, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


