 Case Number:  23AHCV02059    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL OF RECORD FOR PLAINTIFFSI.               
BackgroundThis action arises from a motor vehicle collision
that occurred on September 8, 2021, in Monterey Park, California. Plaintiffs
Ning Zhou and Xiaoling Zuo (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants
Mei Liu and John Doe Liu, (“Defendants”) asserting causes of action for 1)
Motor Vehicle Negligence and 2) General Negligence.On October 22, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel, Michael
Kielsky, filed the instant motion to withdraw as counsel of record.II.            
Legal
StandardThe Court may issue an order allowing an attorney to
withdraw from representation after notice to the client. (CCP § 284.) The
attorney may withdraw from representation if the withdrawal would not result in
undue prejudice to the client's interest—i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a
critical point in the litigation. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915; see California Rule of Professional Conduct 3-700.)The Court has discretion to grant or deny a motion
to be relieved as counsel, particularly when granting such a motion would cause
undue prejudice to the client's interests or result in “an unreasonable
disruption of the orderly processes of justice.” (People v. Ortiz (1990)
51 Cal. 3d 975, 979.) Furthermore, the Court may deny an attorney’s request to
withdraw “where such withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in
the proceeding.” (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal. App. 3d 1,
4.) However, this discretion must be exercised reasonably, balancing the
client’s right to choose representation with the court’s duty to maintain the
orderly administration of justice. (Ibid.)In making a motion to be relieved as counsel, the
attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362. The motion must be made using mandatory forms:1.
Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client –
(MC-051).2.
Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” the reasons that the
motion was brought (MC-052).3. Proposed Order (MC-053).The forms must be timely filed and served on all
parties who have appeared in the case. If these documents are served on the
client by mail, there must be a declaration stating either that the address
where client was served is “the current residence or business address of the
client” or “the last known residence or business address of the client and the
attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1).)III.          
DiscussionMichael
Kielsky, attorney for Plaintiffs Ning Zhou and Xiaoling Zuo, seeks to withdraw
as counsel of record. Mr. Kielsky asserts that he is no longer associated with his prior
firm, Kent Law PLC firm, and no longer handles personal injury matters, and is
occupied with judicial assignments in Arizona. He further contends that
substitute counsel has not been secured despite his efforts.The
Court finds that Mr. Kielsky’s motion is procedurally defective and has failed
to comply with California Rule of Court 3.1362, which requires the use
of Judicial Council forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053, as well as proper service
of notice to all parties and the clients at their last known addresses. While
Mr. Kielsky claims to have notified Plaintiffs of this motion and provided case
information, no proof of service has been submitted to confirm that Plaintiffs
received notice or their case file. Without compliance with these procedural
requirements, the Court cannot grant the motion.The
Court finds that the procedural defects preclude granting the motion.
Accordingly, the motion to be relieved as counsel is DENIED without prejudice.IV.          
Conclusion
and OrderThe
Court DENIES Mr. Kielsky’s motion to be relieved as counsel.Counsel
is ordered to give notice. Dated: November 21, 2024
 JARED
D. MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 
