  Case Number:  23AHCV01901    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS
MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT’S ANWER I.               
INTRODUCTION
This action arises from Defendant's failure to pay amounts owed to Plaintiff for goods and services under an open
book account and account stated. Plaintiff, Signify North America Corporation
(“Plaintiff”), alleges that Defendant Critical Climate Inc. is indebted to Plaintiff in the amount of
$78,069.48.
Plaintiff commenced this action on
August 21, 2023. Defendant filed an initial response on September 29, 2023,
and an Amended Answer on November 27, 2023. On June 12, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant's counsel’s motion to be relieved.
On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to strike Defendant's Answer, which remains unopposed.
 
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. §436: “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
            Code Civ. Proc. §431.10:
“(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or
defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it
insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to
the statement of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’ means irrelevant matter’ as that term is
used in Section 436.”              
“‘In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint
must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute,
Civil Code section 3294.’ (Citation.)” Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County
MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193. 
            Civ. Code §3294: 
(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision
(a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had
advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with
a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or
ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was
personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
(c) As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.
 
III.          
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff seeks to strike the Answer filed by Defendant on the ground
that it is an unrepresented corporate defendant.
A court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading” or any part of a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) Additionally, “[t]he grounds for a motion to strike shall appear
on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Based on the evidence presented, the Court finds that Defendant has been unrepresented by counsel since June 12, 2024. Under well-established
common law, a corporation, unlike an individual, cannot represent itself before
courts of record in propria persona. Nor can a corporation appear through an
officer, director, or employee who is not a licensed attorney. A corporation
must be represented by licensed counsel in proceedings before courts of record.
(CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th
1141, 1145.)
Here, Defendant initially filed an Answer pro se on September 29, 2023,
and later filed an Amended Answer through retained counsel on November 27,
2023. On June 12, 2024, the Court granted the motion of Defendant's counsel to
withdraw from representation. Despite being unrepresented for approximately
five months, Defendant has taken no steps to retain new counsel.
Additionally, no opposition to the motion to strike has been filed. Therefore,
the Court finds that striking Defendant's Answer is appropriate.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION
& ORDER
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion striking Defendant’s answer. 
Plaintiff is to give notice. 
  
Dated:  November 21, 2024                                                                     
                                                                                                 JARED D. MOSES   JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                 