  Case Number:  19STCV21811    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  30 EARL HACKETT, JR. vs ISB TRANSPORT LTD., et al.Motion to Continue TrialTENTATIVEDefendants' Motion to Continue the Trial Date is denied.  Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONDefendants move for a continuance of trial and related dates to April 1, 2024, or any date shortly thereafter.Plaintiff Hackett’s counsel testifies that Plaintiff Hackett’s mental examination has been scheduled for November 3, 2023, and Plaintiff Bell’s has been scheduled for November 2, 2023. (Khachoyan Decl., ¶ 4.) Counsel testifies that the doctor’s reports will be ready at the very start of December and will leave Defendants’ with sufficient time (two months) to use those reports in their preparation for trial. (Id.)Plaintiff Bell’s counsel testifies that Defendants’ have ignored the Court’s warning at the previous Motion to Continue hearing, when they were previously warned that if they attempted another continuance on the grounds that they required additional time that it would be denied. (Oviedo Decl., ¶ 6.) Further, Counsel testifies that Defendants allegations that substantial discovery remains are untrue. (Id., ¶ 7.) Moreover, Counsel testifies that Defendants have only moved forward and noticed an IME almost two years after the initial Discovery Responses. (Id., ¶ 11.)In Defendants’ reply to Plaintiff Hackett’s opposition, Defendants’ counsel testifies that based on the trial date, the last day to demand the exchange of expert witness information is November 14, 2023, and expert disclosures are due December 4, 2023. (Estrada Decl., ¶ 2, 3.) Further counsel testifies that Defendants’ counsel’s constant requests for mediation have led Plaintiff’s counsel to finally express interest and that mediation can only take place after the mental examination of Plaintiffs take place. (Id. ¶ 4.)In Defendants’ reply to Plaintiff Bell’s opposition, Defendants’ counsel testifies that Plaintiff Bell has failed to provide sufficient records necessary to evaluate Plaintiff’s major surgical procedure, its costs, and associated costs for recovery. (Estrada Decl., ¶ 6.) Additionally, counsel testifies that Plaintiff will not be prejudiced if there is a short continuance because it will be about eight months before the five-year statute deadline in this case. (Id., ¶ 14.)Here, Defendants’ have not shown that good cause exists to continue the trial date. The Court finds that the age of the case, the currently scheduled discovery, and the prejudice to the opposing side weigh against a continuance. Further, since both sides are not equally enthusiastic about mediating. The Court puts little weight on the possibility of mediation as grounds to continue the trial. The Court will deny the motion to continue filed by Defendants.