 Case Number:  23AVCV01232    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a civil
rights/discrimination action. Plaintiff David Greenstein (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on August 28, 2023, he was at the Arco AM/PM located at 41923 Sierra
Highway in Palmdale, California, (“the Premises”), owned by Guar Enterprise,
Inc. (“Guar”), when he sought to use the restroom and was told by an agent
named Maggie that there was no public restroom available. Plaintiff further
alleges he returned twice and (1) was told from an unknown source that the
restroom was not available, but was being worked on; and (2) was told by some
bikers that someone had overdosed on drugs in the restroom and the restroom had
been welded shut. Plaintiff presents that, on the third time, after talking to
the bikers, he returned inside the Arco AM/PM and confirmed the information
with Maggie who informed him that the restroom door was welded shut several
months ago. Plaintiff contends that lack of access to a restroom violates California
law. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Sanjay Guar, Seema Guar, and Sunny Guar are
stockholders for Guar. 
 
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint alleging one cause of action for Violation of Unruh Civil
Rights Act and the Americans with Disabilities (“ADA”) Act, Title III against
B.P. America, Inc.; Guar; Sanjay Guar; Seema Guar; and Sunny Guar. 
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendants
Guar; Sanjay “Sunny” Guar, erroneously sued as Sanjay Guar and Sunny Guar
(“Sanjay”)[1];
and Seema Guar (“Seema” and collectively “Defendants”) filed their Demurrer to
the Complaint.
 
On December 06, 2023 and December
11, 2023, Plaintiff filed Oppositions. It appears that the first filing
included a proposed First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) that had an unfinished
header. Plaintiff’s Opposition requested leave to amend to file the FAC.
 
On December 20, 2023, the Court
held a Non-Appearance case review. Because a party may amend its pleading once
without leave of court any time before an answer, demurrer, or motion to strike
is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the
demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and
served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or
motion to strike, and the Opposition with the proposed FAC was filed on the
date the Opposition was due, the Court advanced and vacated the Demurrer. (See
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 472(a).) The Court ordered Plaintiff to separately file
the Amended Complaint by January 01, 2024. 
 
On December 22, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his FAC alleging one cause of action for Violation of Civil Rights
against Guar, Sanjay[2],
and Seema[3].

 
On January 25, 2023, Defendants
filed their Demurrer, subsequently sustained with leave to amend.
 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The SAC does not state what cause
of action Plaintiff is suing under. It alleges that in August 2023, Plaintiff
went to the Premises; Plaintiff asked for the restroom and was told there was
no public restroom; California requires service stations that started operating
on or after January 01, 1990 and are located within 660 feet of major highways
to have clean and sanitary public restrooms; the Premises was located within
660 feet of a major highway; Plaintiff left as he was concerned he might have
an accident; Plaintiff returned on further visits and was told that the
bathroom was being worked on, third parties informed him that the bathroom had
been welded shut several months previously because it was being used by
homeless people and one person had died in the bathroom from a drug overdose,
and a clerk at the Premises confirmed that the bathroom was welded shut.
Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants knew of the aforementioned law and
chose to ignore it to the detriment of himself and other customers and, as of
the date of filing the SAC, the Premises still does not have a public restroom
as required by California law.
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendants
filed their Demurrer to the SAC.
 
On April 02, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition.
 
On April 22, 2024, Defendants
filed their Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on
the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is¿whether
the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a
cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
 
A
general demurrer admits the truth of all factual, material allegations properly
pled in the challenged pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of
proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general demurrer does not admit contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
 
Pursuant
to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the party against whom a complaint has been
filed may object by demurrer to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an
abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified Dec. 23, 2003.)¿¿
 
-----
 
Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) The Court
notes that this requirement has been met. (See Decl. Elisa J. Stewart ¶¶ 3-5.)
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendant
presents that Plaintiff’s allegation of the California law requiring service
stations that started operating on or after January 1, 1990 and are located
within 660 feet of major highways to have clean and sanitary public restrooms
found in the SAC at paragraph seven is Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 13651 and
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 13653 provides that the chapter may be enforced by
the city attorney, district attorney, or Attorney General. Thus, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action as there is no
private right of action for the alleged violation.
 
Plaintiff, in Opposition, concedes
that Defendants are correct in their argument. Plaintiff argues that the SAC is
not seeking to enforce any law or regulation, but instead seeks damages for
personal injuries and damages for violation of a California law. 
 
In Reply, Defendants reiterate
that there is no private cause of action for this law (i.e., lack of standing).

 
The SAC is unclear as to what
duty is breached, the injury, and damages. As such, the Court cannot provide an
analysis of the elements to determine whether a cause of action is stated.
Defendants do not provide argument addressing Plaintiff’s right to seek damages
based on personal injury. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is
SUSTAINED.
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿While under California law¿leave¿to
amend¿is liberally granted, “leave¿to amend¿should not be granted¿where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.”¿(Vaillette¿v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co.¿(1993),¿18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿“A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿
 
As the SAC is unclear, the Court
cannot state with certainty that an amendment would not have the possibility of
rectifying the deficiencies within the SAC.
 
Accordingly, the Court allows
leave to amend. The Court informs Plaintiff that this will be his final
opportunity to amend the pleadings.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Guar Enterprise, Inc.,
Sanjay Guar, Seema Gaur’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiff David Greenstein is to file an amended
pleading within 30 days of this Court Order.


