  Case Number:  23AVCV00180    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a breach of contract
action. Plaintiff Lorraine M. Schaum (“Plaintiff”) alleges a breach of contract
against Defendants Antelope Valley Hospital, the California Business Bureau,
Inc. (“CBB”), and Administrative Concepts, Inc. (“ACI”). Plaintiff presents
that she had surgery on August 04, 2021 on her right arm for the replacement of
a prosthetic radius head and, a few months ago, when running a credit report,
she saw that she had a debt of $45,653.85 to CBB for Antelope Valley Hospital.
Plaintiff states she then spoke to Antelope Valley Hospital’s billing
department and was told that the debt was forwarded to CBB and Antelope Valley
Hospital would not discuss the matter with her. Plaintiff alleges she then went
to medical records; obtained her medical record; saw that the medical record
did not contain notes regarding approval from the insurance to Antelope Valley
Hospital representative, Justin; so, she contacted CBB and spoke to Sean who
told her that her insurance company refused to cover the bill leaving her in
debt in the amount of $57,238.18. Plaintiff contends that Sean informed her
that there was a note in the hospital file that Antelope Valley Hospital
received verbal approval from ACI for the surgery, but that he could not give
her a copy of this note. Plaintiff further alleges that because there is a
notation that there was verbal authorization, the bill should have been covered
by ACI. 
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging one cause of action for Breach of Contract. 
 
On March 20, 2024, Antelope
Valley Healthcare District (“AVHD”) filed this Demurrer. The Court believes
that AVHD is responding for Antelope Valley Hospital; however, there is no
notation on the Demurrer that AVHD was erroneously sued as Antelope Valley Hospital.
The Court notes that the Cross-Complaint, discussed infra, states that
AVHD does business as Antelope Valley Hospital.
On March 20, 2024, AVHD filed a
Cross Complaint against Plaintiff, CBB, and ACI alleging two causes of action
for (1) Breach of Contract, and (2) Declarator Relief. 
 
On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff
filed two documents: (1) her Opposition to AVHD’s Demurrer; and (2) her Answer
to AVHD’s Cross-Complaint.
 
On April 15, 2024, AVHD filed its
Reply.
 
The Court notes that, at this
time, ACI has not been served with Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause
of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902,
905.)¿Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in
a demurrer hearing is¿whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified Dec. 23, 2003.)¿¿ 
 
----- 
 
Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the
purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) The Court notes that this
requirement was attempted, but no response was received from Plaintiff. (See
Decl. Lauren E. Raya ¶ 3.) “A determination by the court that the meet and
confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).) Accordingly, the Court
addresses the Demurrer on its merits. 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – AVHD
presents that, as alleged, there is no contract between Plaintiff and AVHD as
Plaintiff’s Complaint makes conclusory statements that there is a contract
between AVHD and Plaintiff without detailing any of the terms or providing a
copy of the contract because no such contract exists. AVHD also presents that
the Complaint is uncertain, ambiguous and unintelligible because more than one
defendant is named and the Complaint fails to distinguish between the
defendants.
 
Plaintiff argues that she does
allege a contract and directs the Court and the parties to two exhibits that
she has attached to her Opposition. Plaintiff presents arguments related to
these documents. 
 
In Reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s Opposition has not addressed the defects in her pleading as it
regurgitates the allegations within the Complaint and Plaintiff’s declaration
is procedurally improper as Plaintiff fails to declare anything and attempts to
offer legal research as support without analysis or commentary.
 
Such exhibits are improper for
the purpose of this Demurrer. In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)
 
Plaintiff has filed a declaration
on March 27, 2024, a day after her Opposition was filed. It is unclear if this
declaration is related to the Demurrer as it is simply titled “Declaration.”
Assuming it is a declaration filed in support of the Opposition to the
Demurrer, the declaration includes an exhibit Plaintiff states she has obtained
from CBB. As discussed, ante, such an exhibit is improper for the
purpose of this Demurrer. 
 
The Court notes that the sole
cause of action is directed at all three defendants. As such, it is unclear
whether Plaintiff is alleging that all defendants breached one contract or
whether each defendant breached their respective contracts with Plaintiff 
 
“To prevail on a cause of action
for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
As pled, Plaintiff has not
alleged a contract between AVHD and herself. The Complaint focuses on ACI’s
agreement to cover Plaintiff’s surgery. (See Attachment PLD-C-011 #BC-1 at
1:3-10, 1:20-24, 2:1-6, 2:14-19, 2:23-24.) That is, Plaintiff has not pled
either an oral or written contract with AVHD; if the contract is a written
contract, the contract is not attached or the terms of the contract are not
recited; and, as such, Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled a Breach of Contract
Claim. (See Otworth v. S. Oac. Transp. Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452,
459 [“[I]f the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the
terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the
written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.”]). 
 
The Court need not discuss the
remaining elements as, on its face, a defect exists in the pleadings as to the
contract and, thus, the Complaint fails
to state a cause of action for Breach of Contract against AVHD. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to
amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿
 
Here, because the Complaint
unclear as to what contract exists between Plaintiff and AVHD, there is a
reasonable possibility of an amendment rectifying the deficiencies within the
pleadings.
 
Accordingly, the Court allows
leave to amend.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Antelope Valley
Healthcare District’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff Lorraine M. Schaum is to file an amended
pleading within 30 days of this Court Order.