  Case Number:  22SMCV00619    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  MIKHAIL CHERNOV, individually and as trustee of the MC2011 Revocable Trust, et al.,    Plaintiffs, v.  PAOLA JOICE MILLER, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV00619     Hearing Date:  June 5, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT PAOLA JOICE MILLER’S    MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM    TERMINATING SANCTIONS PURSUANT    TO CODE CIV. PROC. 473(B)   BACKGROUND This case arises from a landlord-tenant dispute.  Plaintiffs Mikhail Chernov and Olga Chernova (“Landlords”) entered into a written lease agreement with Defendant Paola Joice Miller (“Tenant”) for property located at 1070 Somera Road, Los Angeles, California (the “Premises”).  Tenant failed to pay rent.  Landlords sued for breach of contract.  Tenant is self-represented.   On March 21, 2023, Landlords served Tenant with a notice of deposition.  Tenant failed to appear for her deposition.    On May 18, 2023, the Court held an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on Tenant’s failure to appear for her deposition.  Tenant failed to appear at the IDC.   On June 12, 2023, Landlords filed a motion to compel Tenant’s deposition and requested monetary sanctions.  On July 20, 2023, the Court granted Landlords’ motion and awarded sanctions against Tenant.   On August 11, 2023, Landlords once again noticed Tenant’s deposition.  The deposition was set to take place on August 23, 2023.  On August 21, 2023, Landlords provided Tenant with the zoom information for her deposition.  Tenant did not object to the deposition.  Tenant failed to appear for her deposition.   On October 5, 2023, this Court granted Landlords’ motion for terminating sanctions given Tenant’s failure to appear for deposition and comply with the Court’s July 20, 2023 Order. This hearing is on Tenant’s motion for relief from the Order granting terminating sanctions.  Tenant argues that she did not receive any of the notices of deposition, the Court’s orders, and the notice of entry of judgment.  She claims that her former counsel (Jonathan Herzog) misrepresented her contact information to opposing counsel and the Court.  In his motion to be relieved as counsel, Mr. Herzog provided the contact information for Tenant as 1070 Somera Road, Los Angeles, California 90077 and paolamproperties@yahoo.com.  In fact, Tenant claims she does not regularly receive mail at 1070 Somera Road, but instead used a post office box at 8459 Wilshire Blvd, #544, Beverly Hills, California 90210.  In addition, Tenant claims she never agreed to email service, and in any event, she did not expect to receive legal documents at paolamproperties@yahoo.com.  She uses a VIP recipient list on that email account due to the number of unsolicited emails she receives, and Landlord’s counsel was not on the VIP recipient list so Tenant never saw his emails.   LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)¿provides, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken¿against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,¿surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) The court has broad discretion to vacate the entry of default, default judgment, a dismissal, or other proceeding, but that discretion can be exercised only if the moving party establishes a proper ground for relief, by the proper procedure and within the set time limits. Pursuant to¿Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), a motion to vacate cannot be brought more than six months after the proceeding was taken and must be made within a “reasonable time.” Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)¿allows a court to vacate a prior order upon a showing that the order was entered due to a party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  The terms mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect which warrant relief under¿Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)¿are defined as follows: Mistake may be one of¿fact or law.  Mistake of¿fact occurs when a person understands the¿facts to be other than they are; a mistake of¿law occurs when a person knows the¿facts as they really are, but has a¿mistaken belief as to¿the legal consequences of those¿facts.  (People v. Kelly (1939) 35 Cal.App.2d 571, 574.)  “Mistake is not a ground for relief under¿section 473, subdivision (b), when the court finds that the ‘mistake’ is simply the result¿of professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law”.  (Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 229-230.)   Further, the term “surprise,” as used in¿section 473, refers to “some condition or situation in which a party … is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”  (Id. at 229-230.)   Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, “[t]o warrant relief under¿section 473¿a litigant’s neglect must have been such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.”  (Henderson, 187 Cal.App.4th at 229-230.)  A lawyer’s failure to discharge routine professional duties is not excusable.  “Conduct falling below the professional standard of care, such as the failure to timely object or to properly advance an argument is not therefore excusable.”  (Generale Bank Nederland N.V. v. Eyes of the Beholder Ltd. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1400.)   Where the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect is excusable “and the party seeking relief has been diligent, courts have often granted relief pursuant to the discretionary relief provision of¿section 473¿if no prejudice to the opposing party will ensue.” (Id.)  In such situations only “very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in setting aside the default.”  (Miller v. City of Hermosa Beach (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1136.)   Moreover, because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on¿the merits, “any doubts in applying [Code of Civil Procedure] section 473¿must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. Therefore, a trial court order denying relief is scrutinized more carefully than an order permitting trial on the merits.” (McCormick¿v.¿Board of Supervisors, 198 Cal.App.3d at 359-360 citing,¿Elston¿v.¿City of Turlock¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233.) REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Tenant seeks judicial notice of the following: (1) an October 17, 2022 motion to be relieved as counsel and supporting declaration; (2) a March 21, 2023 proof of service for second notice of deposition; (3) a May 18, 2023 proof of service for certificate of mailing of minute order on informal discovery conference; (4) a June 12, 2023 proof of service for notice to compel deposition; (5) a July 21, 2023 proof of service for notice of ruling on motion to compel deposition; (6) an August 11, 2023 proof of service for third notice of deposition; (7) a September 6, 2023 proof of service for notice of motion for terminating sanctions, and (8) a December 5, 2023 notice of entry of judgment.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§ 452(d), 452(h), and 453. Landlord seeks judicial notice of the following: (1) an October 17, 2022 notice of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel and supporting declaration; (2) a November 21, 2022 order granting the motion to be relieved as counsel; (3) a November 21, 2022 notice of informal discovery conference; (4) a November 21, 2022 notice of ruling re motion to be relieved as counsel; (5) a November 23, 2022 proof of service re order granting attorney’s motion to be relieved as counsel; (6) a December 27, 2022 notice of case reassignment; (7) a January 6, 2023 informal discovery conference statement; (8) a motion to compel Defendant Paolo Joice Miller’s appearance and testimony at oral deposition; (9) a April 17, 2023 notice of informal discovery conference; (10) a May 11, 2023 informal discovery conference statement; (11) a June 4, 2023 motion to compel Defendant Paolo Joice Miller’s appearance and testimony at oral deposition; (12) a July 21, 2023 notice of ruling re motion to compel Defendant’s deposition; (13) a September 6, 2023 motion for terminating sanctions or in the alternative for evidentiary and issue sanctions against Defendant Paolo Joice Miller; (14) an October 6, 2023 notice of ruling re motion for terminating sanctions; (15) a November 6, 2023 judgment, and (16) Judgment Debtor Paola Miller’s Claim of Exemption.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§ 452(d), 452(h), and 453. DISCUSSION Tenant seeks discretionary relief under Code Civ. Proc. § 437, subdivision (b).  The Court concludes that none of the grounds supporting the grant of discretionary relief are present here. Tenant is claiming mistake on the part of her former attorney who she claims misrepresented her contact information to the Court.  There is no declaration from Tenant’s former attorney that he was mistaken in his representation to the Court as to Tenant’s contact information.  The Court does not credit Tenant’s self-serving claim that the contact information was incorrect. Tenant admits that the physical address on file where notices were sent was her home.  (Miller Decl. ¶10.)  She received mail sent to this address but she chose to throw out the mail that was sent there.  (Id.)  She also admits that the email address where notices were sent was valid, and she had access to it.  (Id. ¶7.)  She claims she only reads emails sent by a select group of “VIP” senders, but she provided this email as her contact information on public real estate listing sites, and she responded to emails sent to her at that site from an unknown sender.  (Exs. 17, 18 to Evanns Decl.; Ex. 24 to Messinger Decl.)   In any event, Tenant had the burden to notify the court to the extent her physical and email address were inaccurate.  Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.200, codify the duty to inform: “[a]n attorney or self-represented party whose mailing address, telephone number, fax number, or e-mail address . . . changes while an action is pending must serve on all parties and file a written notice of the change.”  The burden of notifying the court of a change in address is on the “person to be served” and “failure to do so does not enable him to claim improper notice.”  (Bethlahmy v. Customcraft Industries, Inc. (1961) 192 Cal. App. 2d 308, 310 (trial court properly denied a motion to vacate default judgment based on claim that trial notice was sent to incorrect address where notice was sent to address stated in former counsel’s motion to withdraw).) There is also no evidence of surprise.  Surprise is only available as a basis for discretionary relief if a party exercises “ordinary prudence,” which Tenant failed to do.   Tenant was aware of the existence of the lawsuit, and after her counsel was relieved, she was obligated to keep abreast of the litigation, including reviewing papers filed by her former counsel.  Her pro per status is not an excuse to ignore her obligations as a litigant.  She is entitled to the same, but not greater consideration than other litigants or attorneys.  (Nwosu v. Uba, 122 Cal. App. 4th 1229, 1246-1247 (2004) (“Under the law, a party may choose to act as his or her own attorney. Such a party is to be treated like any other party and is entitled to the same, but no greater consideration than other litigants and attorneys. Thus, as is the case with attorneys, pro per litigants must follow correct rules of procedure.”); Goodson v. Bogerts, Inc. (1967) 252 Cal. App. 2d 32, 40 (A party is not entitled to any more or less consideration than a lawyer because they represent themselves, “thus any alleged ignorance of legal matters or failure to properly represent himself can hardly constitute ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect’ as those terms are used in section 473.”).)  Tenant also cannot show excusable neglect.  The entirety of Tenant’s evidence consists of a declaration by Tenant herself, where she admits: (1) she knew her attorney was withdrawing, (2) she failed to appear at the hearing on the motion for withdrawal, (3) the address where notices were sent was her home where she received mail, (4) the email address where notices were sent was her email address which she was able to access at any time, (5) she threw out mail she received at her home, (6) she did not review any email sent to her unless it was from a favored contact, and (7) she did not make a single inquiry into the status of the case after her counsel withdrew, instead stating (in spite of being a sophisticated real estate agent and a prolific litigant who has been involved in at least 12 lawsuits often as plaintiff) that she thought “perhaps the other side had stopped pursuing it.”  (Miller Decl. ¶¶ 2, 7-10, 13.)  These are not the acts of a reasonably prudent person who has been sued.  On her motion and declaration alone, Tenant has not just failed to meet her burden, she has actually done precisely the opposite—she has affirmatively shown she was thoroughly careless under circumstances where she is required by law to act with diligence.       “Certainly it is true that a policy of the law favors deciding cases on their merits, but other policies favor getting cases to trial on time, avoiding unnecessary and prejudicial delay, and preventing litigants from playing fast and loose with the pertinent legal rules and procedures.”  (Gardner v. Superior Court (1986) 182 Cal. App. 3d 335, 339.)  “While courts are liberal in relieving parties of defaults caused by inadvertence or excusable neglect . . . they do not act as guardians for incompetent parties or parties who are grossly careless as to their own affairs. There must be rules and regulations by which rights are determined and under which judgments become final.”  (Gillingham v. Lawrence (1909) 11 Cal. App. 231, 233-234.)  Tenant cites to Elms v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, in support of her claim that her actions were excusable.  (Motion at 6:12-13.)  Elms actually supports Landlord’s position.  In Elms, the defendant appeared and answered the action, but ultimately dismissed his attorney, failed to attend proceedings and trial, and then later sought to vacate the judgment on the ground that it “was taken against the defendant through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise and excusable neglect.”  (Id. at 511.)  The Appellate Court found that it was an abuse of discretion to vacate the judgment under these circumstances, stating: “To warrant relief under section 473 a litigant’s neglect must have been such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances. ...It is the duty of every party desiring to resist an action or to participate in a judicial proceeding to take timely and adequate steps to retain counsel or to act in his own person to avoid an undesirable judgment. Unless in arranging for his defense he shows that he has exercised such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence usually bestows upon important business his motion for relief under section 473 will be denied.”  (Id. at 513.)   So it is here.  Tenant’s conduct is wholly inexcusable.  She was not just negligent or inattentive—she took knowing, willful, and affirmative steps to ignore the legal proceedings.  The record and Tenant’s own declaration shows: Tenant failed to provide her withdrawing counsel with new contact information; Tenant failed to participate in the litigation causing her counsel to withdraw; Tenant admitted to throwing out her mail that she received at her home; she admitted to receiving, but ignoring, all emails sent to her email address; and then, she went on to not make a single inquiry into the status of the case for almost a year and a half after her attorney withdrew.  Put simply, a party who has been sued cannot simply ignore the litigation, put their head in the sand for 1.5 years, and then have the ensuing judgment vacated.  Lint v. Chisholm (1981) 121 Cal. App. 3d 615, is instructive.  There, the Court of Appeal affirmed the denial of a motion to vacate where the defendant made similar claims regarding “surprise” based on not receiving mailed notice.  In Lint, “[n]otice of trial was mailed to both parties at the addresses listed with the clerk, but defendant failed to appear for trial” claiming that the closing of his business and his domestic problems disrupted his regular mail service.  (Id. at 618-620.)  The appellate court held that the trial court had not abused its discretion in rejecting the defendant’s claim of surprise and excusable neglect.  (Id. at 618.)  The appellate court concluded that the defendant could not “claim lack of notice” because he “fail[ed] to notify the court of his address change, or alternatively to otherwise adequately arrange for mail delivery” and that he additionally could not show that “the nonreceipt” of mail occurred “without any fault of his own.”  (Id. at 620-621.)  The defendant in Lint was far more diligent than Tenant.  Tenant isn’t just claiming she didn’t get notice; she admits she purposely threw out or avoided looking at all notice.  (Miller Decl. ¶¶ 7, 10.)  Tenant argues that the “first relevant document mailed to an address even remotely linked to [her] was the third notice of deposition” and “a single missed notice of deposition does not justify terminating sanctions.”  (Reply at 3:11-12, 3:14-15.)  These arguments are grossly misleading.  Tenant didn’t just miss a single notice of deposition.  Tenant’s counsel was served with a first notice of deposition, and when Tenant would not provide her counsel with available dates, he withdrew.  The second notice of deposition was emailed to Tenant.  And the third notice of deposition was mail served and e-mail served to Tenant.  Tenant failed to appear for any deposition.  The Court held an IDC with regard to Tenant’s failure to appear, and the IDC statement was e-mailed to Tenant.  Landlord then filed a motion to compel Tenant’s deposition, which was also e-mailed to Tenant.  The Court granted the motion to compel, and the notice of ruling on the motion to compel was e-mailed to Tenant.  Landlord then filed a motion for terminating sanctions which was emailed to and mail served on Tenant.  The Court granted the motion for terminating sanctions, and the notice of ruling on the motion for terminating sanctions was e-mailed to and mail-served on Tenant.  In short, this is not a case about a single missed notice of deposition, and any claim otherwise is entirely frivolous.      CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for relief from the order granting terminating sanctions.     IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: June 5, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  