 Case Number:  23PSCV00288    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants Adam Torres, Lisa Torres, Rosie Gutierrez,
and Joshua Gutierrez’s Demurrer to the Verified First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Lucinda Uzeta Hernandez
 
Defendants Rosa Torres, Florentino Torres, Juan Jose
Uzeta, and Marrisa I. Uzeta’s Demurrer to the Verified First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Lucinda Uzeta Hernandez
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Adam Torres, Lisa Torres, Rosie Gutierrez,
and Joshua Gutierrez’s Demurrer to the Verified First Amended Complaint and
Defendants Rosa Torres, Florentino Torres, Juan Jose Uzeta, and Marrisa I.
Uzeta’s Demurrer to the Verified First Amended Complaint are CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendants’ counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the Demurrers and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days
before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action to quiet title involving a residential
property in La Puente (La Puente Property). On January 5, 1973, Defendants Rosa
Torres[1] and Florentino Torres purchased the La Puente Property on behalf
of Rosa’s minor sister. On May 22, 1976, Rosa and Florentino transferred title
for the La Puente Property through a grant deed to Rosa’s mother, Plaintiff
Lucinda Uzeta Hernandez.
 
On September 14, 2000, Uzeta Hernandez alleges Rosa falsely
told Uzeta Hernandez that Uzeta Hernandez could not collect Social Security and
Medicare benefits if Uzeta Hernandez still held title to the La Puente
Property. In response to Rosa’s alleged misrepresentations, Uzeta Hernandez transferred
title for the La Puente Property through a quitclaim deed to Rosa and Defendant
Juan Jose Uzeta, Uzeta Hernandez’s youngest son. Uzeta Hernandez alleges Rosa
and Juan had agreed to hold the La Puente Property in trust for Uzeta Hernandez
and all of Uzeta Hernandez’s children.
 
From November 2004 to July 2012, Uzeta Hernandez alleges
Rosa and Juan obtained a series of loans from Defendant Jaime Carrea and others
secured by deeds of trust on the La Puente Property without Uzeta Hernandez’s
knowledge or consent. In 2012, Rosa allegedly requested Uzeta Hernandez provide
financial assistance so Rosa could keep a house in Rowland Heights (Rowland
Heights Property). Uzeta Hernandez agreed to move into the Rowland Heights
Property so Rosa could collect rent on the La Puente Property and collect money
from the government for claiming to be Uzeta Hernandez’s caregiver.
 
In August 2020, after the Rowland Heights Property was
sold, Uzeta Hernandez, Rosa, and Florentino moved back into the La Puente
Property. While Uzeta Hernandez paid for the La Puente Property’s costs from
2012 to August 2020, Rosa allegedly promised to cover the costs when they moved
back into the La Puente Property. However, Uzeta Hernandez alleges Rosa and
Florentino refused to cover any costs or pay rent after moving into the La
Puente Property. On March 30, 2022, Rosa and Juan transferred their interest
through a grant deed to Defendants Adam Torres and Rosie Gutierrez without Uzeta
Hernandez’s knowledge or permission. In April 2022, Uzeta Hernandez moved out
of the La Puente Property after Rosa refused to deed the La Puente Property
back to Uzeta Hernandez.
 
On January 31, 2023, Uzeta Hernandez filed a complaint
against Rosa, Florentino, Juan, Marrisa I. Uzeta, Adam, Lisa Torres, Rosie,
Joshua Gutierrez, Carrea, Does 1-100, and all other persons unknown claiming
any right, title, or interest in the La Puente Property, alleging the following
causes of action: (1) quiet title, (2) imposition of a constructive trust, (3)
imposition of a resulting trust, (4) declaratory relief, (5) slander of title,
(6) physical and financial elder abuse, (7) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (IIED), (8) fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud, (9) conversion, and
(10) false imprisonment.
 
On July 7, 2023, Uzeta Hernandez filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action
except for the ninth cause of action for conversion which was omitted.
 
On August 8, 2023, Adam, Lisa, Rosie, and Joshua
(collectively, Torres-Gutierrez Defendants) filed one of the present demurrers.
On August 9, Rosa, Florentino, Juan, and Marrisa (collectively, Torres-Uzeta
Defendants) filed the other present demurrer. On June 20, counsel for the
Torres-Gutierrez Defendants and the Torres-Uzeta Defendants allegedly met and
conferred in person with Uzeta Hernandez’s counsel during a deposition. (Vega
Decl., ¶ 5; Martinez Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Torres-Gutierrez Defendants demur to
Uzeta Hernandez’s fifth (slander of title), sixth (financial and elder abuse),
and seventh (IIED) causes of action. The Torres-Uzeta Defendants demur to Uzeta
Hernandez’s fifth (slander of title), sixth (financial and elder abuse),
seventh (IIED), eighth (fraud), and ninth (false imprisonment) causes of
action. For the following reasons, the court
finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case,
counsel for the Torres-Gutierrez and Torres-Uzeta Defendants attempted to meet
and confer with Uzeta Hernandez’s counsel before the operative FAC in this
action was filed. (Vega Decl., ¶ 5; Martinez Decl., ¶ 4.) But since the
filing of the FAC, the court is not aware of any further meet and confer efforts.
Accordingly, the court finds a continuance for the parties to further meet and
confer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the Torres-Gutierrez Defendants’
Demurrer and the Torres-Uzeta Defendants’ Demurrer are CONTINUED to a date
to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Counsel for the
Torres-Gutierrez and Torres-Uzeta Defendants is also ordered to meet and
confer with Uzeta Hernandez’s counsel regarding these Demurrers and to file a
supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9)
court days before the next scheduled hearing.


