 Case Number:  22STCV04291    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 3, 2022, Plaintiffs Jesus
Sandoval, Reyna Yepez, Juan Rosas, Mia Sandoval, a minor by and through her
guardian ad litem Reyna Yepez, and Leo Sandoval, a minor by and through his
guardian ad litem Reyna Yepez, filed this action against Defendants City of Los
Angeles (“City”), Sean L. Williams (“Williams”),
and Does 1-20 for negligence. 
On
August 18, 2022, the City filed an answer. 
On
January 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a notice of errata saying the true name of
the Plaintiff listed in the complaint as Leo Sandoval is Lea Sandoval. 
On
May 19, 2023, Williams filed an answer. 
On
January 8, 2024, the City and Williams (“Defendants”) filed a motion for leave to file
a cross-complaint to be heard on April 5, 2024. 
Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 28, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUEST 
Defendants ask for leave to file a cross-complaint against Jesus Sandoval for indemnity,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The
complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on February 9, 2021, Williams negligently drove his
vehicle into Plaintiffs’ vehicle, injuring Plaintiffs.  According to the complaint, Williams was
acting in the course and scope of his employment with the City’s police
department when the accident occurred. 
B.    Defendants’ motion for leave to file a cross-complaint 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff Jesus Sandoval (“Sandoval”), who was driving Plaintiffs’ vehicle
when the accident occurred, caused the accident by making “a sudden left turn
directly into [Williams’] path . . . .”  Therefore,
Defendants assert, Sandoval should be required to indemnify the City for any
amounts it pays as the result of Sandoval’s negligence. 
C.      Ruling 
Despite
Defendants’ delay in seeking leave to file a cross-complaint, the Court is not
aware of any evidence showing a lack of good faith.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)  Liberally construing
the statute to avoid forfeiture of a cause of action (see ibid.), the
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants City of Los Angeles and Sean L. Williams for
leave to file a cross-complaint.  The
Court orders Defendants City of Los Angeles and Sean L. Williams to file and
serve the cross-complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.