 Case Number:  22STCV38781    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 13, 2022, Plaintiff Daniel Chavez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Simon Jihoon Sohng (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for motor
vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
July 3, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
January 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a first amended complaint
to be heard on April 5, 2024.  On
February 16, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 11, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests leave to file and serve a first amended complaint. 
Defendant
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on December 16, 2020, at or near the intersection of
Laveta Terrace and West Temple Street in Los Angeles, Defendant negligently operated
a motor vehicle, injuring Plaintiff. 
Defendant allegedly “violated various Vehicle Code sections, including
but not limited to, California Vehicle Code sections 21453(a), 21532(a), and
22350 in causing this incident and injuries and damages to Plaintiff in an
amount to be proved at trial.” 
The
complaint sought compensatory damages. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion to file an amended complaint 
Plaintiff
requests leave to amend his complaint (1) to allege that Defendant was convicted of violating Vehicle Code section
23152, subdivision (f), which makes it unlawful to drive a vehicle while under
the influence of a drug, and (2) to assert a claim for punitive damages.  According to Plaintiff, the conviction shows that
Defendant acted with conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and safety, supporting
the request for punitive damages. 
The proposed
amended complaint also pleads detailed facts about the accident and surrounding
circumstances that are not contained in Plaintiff’s original form complaint. 
C.   Defendant’s opposition to the motion 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff knew at least as early as September 2023 that Defendant
had been convicted of driving under the influence of a drug but did not move to
file an amended complaint until January 2024. 
Based on this delay, Defendant argues, the Court should deny the motion.  Defendant also argues the motion is procedurally
defective, Plaintiff cannot plead a viable claim for punitive damages, and
granting the motion will prejudice Defendant. 
D.      Ruling 
Even
if Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in filing his motion to amend, “it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not
misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge, supra, 213
Cal.App.3d at p. 1048.)  “Prejudice
exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of
critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery,
etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 6:656, p. 6-193.)  
Defendant
asserts that allowing the amendments will prejudice him.  He argues that (1) he will be financially
prejudiced by having to file a motion to strike the references to punitive
damages and other “irrelevant factual allegations” from the amended complaint
and (2) the addition of a claim for punitive damages will make the litigation
more complex and open up a new area of financial discovery.  
The
Court concludes that the added costs of preparation which Defendant describes
do not, by themselves, constitute prejudice requiring the Court to deny the
motion – particularly where, as here, the proposed amendments do not change the
basic theory of Plaintiff’s complaint.  Plaintiff
continues to allege that Defendant negligently operated his vehicle, injuring
Plaintiff. 
The
Court “will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.)    
Last,
Plaintiff’s motion complies with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.  Counsel’s supporting declaration provides the information
required by subdivision (b) of the rule. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Daniel Chavez's motion for leave to file a first amended complaint. 
Plaintiff Daniel Chavez is ordered to file and serve
the first amended complaint within 20 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.