 Case Number:  22STCV27836    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On August
26, 2022, Plaintiff Minerva Gomez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Crystal Beverly, Crystal Nicole Harrell, Dwight Harrell, and Does 1-50
for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On August
2, 2023, Defendants Crystal Beverly and Dwight Harrell filed an answer. 
On March 7, 2024, Defendants Crystal Nicole Harrell,
erroneously served as sued as Crystal Beverly, and Dwight Harrell (“Defendants”)
filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to (1) demand for inspection and production of
things, set one, and (2) form interrogatories, set one.  The motions were set to be heard on April 5,
2024.  On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed
oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 20, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
Counsel for the
parties attended an IDC on March 29, 2024. 
B.       Timeliness of motion 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or interrogatories
must be given within 45 days of the service of the responses, or any
supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date to which the
parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c) [interrogatories];
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c) [inspection demand].) Failure to file a
motion within this time period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel
further responses. 
On March
7, 2024, Defendants filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Defendants’
demand for inspection and production of things, set one, and form
interrogatories, set one.  Plaintiff does
not dispute the timeliness of the motions. 
C.   Meet and confer 
A
motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or interrogatories must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section
2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1) [interrogatories]; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2) [inspection demand].)  “A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)  
Defendants
have provided meet and confer declarations. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Defendants
have filed separate statements. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
A.   Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: 
“(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete. 
 “(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. 
“(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit
or too general. 
“(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories. 
“(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(e) If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300.) 
B.   Inspection demands 
  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310
provides in part:  
“(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: 
“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
“(2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
“(3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
each of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(3) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand. 
* * *
  “(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants’
motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to form
interrogatories, set one, and demand for inspection and production of things,
set one 
Propounded:          August
29, 2023                             Responses:             October
17, 2023                         Motion
filed:          March 7, 2024 
Plaintiff’s
responses to the form interrogatories and demand for inspection and production
of things consisted of the same objection: 
“This request is vague, ambiguous, overbroad, unduly
burdensome, invades the Responding Party’s right to privacy, the
attorney-client and attorney work-product privileges, and prematurely seeks
expert opinion in contravention of the time limits imposed by the California
Code of Civil Procedure.  Additionally, this request is neither relevant nor
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” 
In
opposition to the motions, Plaintiff states: “Plaintiff’s counsel has been
unable to reach Plaintiff, as such, responding to discovery is seemingly
impossible at this time.”  Plaintiff’s
counsel has filed a motion to be relieved as counsel, which is set for hearing
on April 11, 2024. 
 “When asserting claims of privilege or
attorney work product protection, the objecting party must provide ‘sufficient
factual information’ to enable other parties to evaluate the merits of the
claim, ‘including, if necessary, a privilege log.’ ”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1474.5, p. 8H-27 (Cal.
Practice Guide).)  Plaintiff has not
carried her burden of showing preliminary facts supporting the application of
attorney client privilege of work product protection because Plaintiff did not
identify any specific confidential communications or provide a privilege
log.  (See ibid.) 
Even
highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if
its disclosure would impair a person’s right to privacy under State or federal
law.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97.)  “Unlike privilege,
the protection afforded is qualified, not absolute.  In each case, the court must carefully
balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery [citation].  The showing required to overcome the
protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in some cases,
a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a compelling interest
must be shown.  (Id., ¶ 8:294, p.
8C-98.)  “The burden is on ‘the party
asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the
prospective invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the countervailing
interests the opposing party identifies.’ ” 
(Ibid.) 
Plaintiff
has not carried her burden of establishing a privacy right that relieves her
from her discovery obligations because she has not described the extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion. 
 The Court grants the motions.  The Court orders Plaintiff (1) to provide
further, verified code-compliant responses to the form interrogatories by May 3,
2024 and (2) to provide further, verified code-compliant responses to
Defendants’ demand for inspection and production of things and to produce the
documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things requested by
May 3, 2024. 
Defendants
do not request sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants Crystal Nicole
Harrell, erroneously served as sued as Crystal Beverly, and Dwight Harrell to
compel further responses to form interrogatories, set one.  The Court orders Plaintiff Minerva Gomez to serve further, verified code-compliant
responses to the form interrogatories by May 3, 2024. 
          The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants Crystal Nicole
Harrell, erroneously served as sued as Crystal Beverly, and Dwight Harrell to
compel further responses to demand for inspection and production of things.  The Court orders Plaintiff Minerva Gomez to serve further, verified code-compliant responses to the demand for inspection
and production of things and to produce the documents, electronically stored
information, and/or other things requested by May 3, 2024. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.