 Case Number:  23CHCV01218    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/15/24
Case #23CHCV01218
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
Motion filed on 4/12/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant
Kind Shock Hi-Tech Co. Ltd. (specially appearing)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
JusGo Mobiliti, LLC
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
quashing JusGo Mobiliti, LLC’s service of summons and cross-complaint on Kind
Shock Hi-Tech Co. Ltd.

 
RULING: The motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of injuries Plaintiff Jacques
Wylan (Plaintiff) allegedly suffered when a bolt in the JusGo knee scooter (the
Scooter) he rented from Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant Pacific
Pharmacy Group (Pacific) failed causing Plaintiff to fall with his weight
landing on his left knee.  Plaintiff has
sued Pacific, Valencia Pharmacy, Inc. and JusGo Mobiliti, LLC (JusGo).  
 
Specially appearing Cross-Defendant Kind Shock Hi-Tech
Co. Ltd. (Kind Shock) manufactures, sells and distributes height adjustable seat
posts with performance suspension for mountain bikes.  Kind Shock’s adjustable suspension stem, KSP-860,
was used by JusGo for the knee rest on its scooters.  The bolt Plaintiff claims broke is part of
the KSP-860 suspension stem.  On 7/31/23,
JusGo filed a cross-complaint against Pacific and Kind Shock for
indemnification, contribution and declaratory relief.
 
Kind Shock is a Taiwanese entity.  Although Kind Shock has not registered with
the California Secretary of State or designated an agent for service of
process, KS USA is Kind Shock’s contact/representative in the United States.  (See Horton Decl. ¶¶2-3, 5-6, Ex.A-C).  KS USA’s Director of Operations is Rick
Taylor.  Id.  
 
On 9/19/23, JusGo’s summons and cross-complaint were delivered
to Rick Taylor (Taylor), Director of Operations for KS USA, at the address
listed for U.S. inquiries on Kind Shock’s website.  (Peiris Decl. ¶3, Ex.1; Horton Decl. ¶¶2, 4-6,
Ex.A-C).
 
On 10/17/23, Kind Shock’s insurer contacted JusGo’s
counsel to request an extension of time for Kind Shock to respond to the
cross-complaint.  (Horton Decl. ¶8).  The request was granted.  Id. 
Thereafter, on 4/12/24, Kind Shock filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order quashing JusGo’s service of summons and cross-complaint on
Kind Shock.  JusGo has opposed the motion
and Kind Shock has filed a reply to the opposition.  
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 416.10 provides: 
 
“A summons may be served on a
corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint by any of the following methods:
(a) To the person designated as
agent for service of process as provided by any provision in Section
202, 1502, 2105, or 2107
of the Corporations Code (or Sections
3301 to 3303,
inclusive, or Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976, with respect to corporations to which
they remain applicable).
(b) To the president, chief executive officer, or other head of
the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a
treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or
chief financial officer, a general manager, or a person
authorized by the corporation to receive service of process.
(c) If the corporation is a bank,
to a cashier or assistant cashier or to a person specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).
(d) If authorized
by any provision in Section
1701, 1702, 2110, or 2111
of the Corporations Code (or Sections
3301 to 3303,
inclusive, or Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976, with
respect to corporations to which they remain applicable), as provided by that provision.”
 
JusGo contends that service of the summons and
cross-complaint on Taylor satisfies the requirement of serving a general
manager of Kind Shock under CCP 416.10(b).  Corporations Code 2110 also provides that service
may be made on a foreign corporation by hand delivering the process to, among
others, its general manager in California. 

 
It has been held that the statutory requirements for
serving a foreign corporation have been met  “‘when the agent served is of a sufficient
character and rank to make it reasonably certain that the defendant will be
apprised of the service made.’”  See
Cosper (1959) 53 C2d 77, 83 citing Eclipse Fuel Engineering Co.
(1957) 148 CA2d 736, 746.  Further,
whether a person served on behalf of a foreign corporation may properly be
regarded as falling within the statute depends on the particular facts of each case.  Id.
 
The Court finds that JusGo has established that Kind
Shock does business in California at the Lake Forest, California office where
Taylor was served; that service on Taylor, as Director of Operations of KS USA was
reasonably certain to apprise Kind Shock of the service and that Taylor acts as
a representative for Kind Shock in California. 

 
The evidence shows that Kind Shock’s website identifies KS
USA and the Lake Forrest address as its United States corporate office.  (See Horton Decl. ¶2, Ex.A).  Additionally, Kind Shock’s website directs
all U.S. inquiries about its products to the Lake Forrest office of KS USA
where Taylor is the Director of Operations. 
(Horton Decl. ¶¶5-6, Ex.B, C). 
The fact that Kind Shock has not registered with the Secretary of State
or designated an agent for service of process in California should not insulate
it from being served in this state when it holds itself out as doing and does business
here.  See General Motors
(1971) 15 CA3d 81, 85.  Further, Taylor indicates
to the public that he part of and/or represents Kind Shock when he markets and
promotes its products at events and indicates that Kind Shock is located in
Lake Forest.  (See Horton Decl. ¶7,
Ex.D).
 
While notice alone is not sufficient to establish proper
service, General Motors, supra, relied on by Kind Shock notes
that one of the main purposes of the service requirements on a foreign
corporation is to protect it from default judgments.  See General Motors, supra.  Here, the evidence indicates that the service
on Taylor provided Kind Shock with notice of the action in time to avoid
default.  The evidence also seems to
indicate that Kind Shock and its insurer were under the impression that service
on Taylor was appropriate as the unrefuted evidence indicates that Kind Shock’s
insurer requested an extension of time to respond to the cross-complaint rather
than timely moving to have the service quashed. 
(See Horton Decl. ¶8).  
 
JusGo’s counsel indicates that on 10/17/23 JusGo granted
Kind Shock an extension of time to respond to the cross-complaint.  (Horton Decl. ¶8).  However, JusGo’s counsel does not indicate
how long the extension was and Kind Shock does not explain why the instant
motion was not filed and served until 4/12/24, well beyond the time to file and
serve a motion to quash based on the 9/19/23 service date.  See CCP 418.10(a)(1) (“A defendant, on
or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time
that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion
for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”).
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that serving
Taylor on behalf of Kind Shock satisfies the requirements of serving a general
manager of the foreign entity defendant. 
The motion is denied.  
 