  Case Number:  24STCP01502    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling   Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51   HEARING DATE:   January  10, 2025                                    CASE NAME:           Corey  Reeser, et al. v. Matt Tyrnauer, et al.   CASE NO.:                24STCP01502    SPECIAL  MOTION TO STRIKE (ANTI-SLAPP)   MOVING PARTY:  Defendant  Matt Tyrnauer   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Corey Reeser,  individually and as trustee of The Corey Reeser Trust dated April 23, 2024, and  Two Point Productions, Inc.   REQUESTED RELIEF:    1.      An  Order striking the Second Cause of Action for Defamation Per Se. TENTATIVE RULING:    1.      Special  Motion to Strike the Second Cause of Action is GRANTED. STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:    On May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs Corey Reeser, individually and as  trustee of The Corey Reeser Trust, dated April 23, 2024, and Two Point  Productions, Inc. (Plaintiffs) filed a Petition for Judicial Supervision of  Voluntary Corporate Dissolution and Individual and Derivative Complaint (Complaint) [1]  against Defendants Matt Tyrnauer and Altimeter Films, Inc. (Defendants) with  causes of action for: (1) Judicial Supervision of Voluntary Dissolution; (2)  Defamation Per Se; (3) Interference with Contract; (4) Interference with  Prospective Economic Advantage; (5) Failure to Pay Wages; (6) Breach of  Fiduciary Duties [Reeser Trust against Tyrnauer]; and (7) Breach of Fiduciary  Duties [Reeser Trust Derivatively on behalf of Altimeter against Tyrnauer].   According to the Complaint, Plaintiff Reeser and Defendant  Tyrnauer own Altimeter Films, Inc. (Altimeter) fifty-fifty and are its sole  directors. Plaintiffs allege that the relationship deteriorated. Plaintiffs  further allege they commenced dissolution procedures because Defendant Tyrnauer  frustrates Plaintiffs’ ability to run Altimeter.  Plaintiff Reeser also alleges that Defendant  Tyrnauer defamed him.   On May 22, 2024, Defendant Tyrnauer filed a Notice of  Related Cases with Los Angeles Superior Court Case entitled Tyrnauer v. Reeser, et al. Case No.  24STCV11741 pending in Dept. 36.   On September 17, 2024, Defendant Tyrnauer filed the instant  Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP).   On September 23, 2024, Defendant Tyrnauer filed an Answer.   On November 21, 2024, the parties filed a Stipulation and  Proposed Order to Appoint J. Michael Issa as Receiver which the court GRANTED.   On December 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the  Special Motion to Strike. On January 3, 2025, Defendant filed a reply.   LEGAL STANDARD:    “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a  defendant’s constitutionally protected¿conduct¿from  the undue burden of frivolous litigation.”¿ (Baral v.¿Schnitt¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)¿ “The anti-SLAPP  statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from  the protected rights of petition or speech.¿ It only provides a procedure for  weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected  activity.”¿ (Id.¿at p.  384.)¿¿¿¿  ¿  “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps.¿  First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from  activity protected by¿section 425.16.¿ If the defendant makes the required  showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the  claim by establishing a probability of success.”¿ (Baral,¿supra, 1 Cal.5th  at p. 384 [citation omitted].)¿ The California Supreme Court has “described  this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’¿ The court does not weigh  evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.¿ Its inquiry is limited to  whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made¿a prima  facie¿factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.¿ It accepts  the plaintiff’s evidence as¿true, and¿evaluates the defendant’s showing only to  determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.¿  ‘[C]laims¿with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”¿ (Id.¿at pp. 384-385 [citations  omitted].)¿¿    ANALYSIS:    Evidentiary  Objections   The court need not rule on the objections for purposes of ruling  on this motion.   Special Motion to  Strike   Prong 1: Protected  Speech    CCP § 425.16(e) provides that an “act in furtherance of a  person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or California  Constitution in connection with a public issue” includes: (1) any written or  oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial  proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law; and (2) any  written or oral statement made in connection with an issue under consideration  or review by a legislative, executive or judicial body or other official  proceeding authorized by law. (CCP § 425.16(e)(1) and (2).)     “A cause of action is subject to a special motion to strike  if the defendant shows that the cause of action arises from an act in  furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech  in connection with a public issue and the plaintiff fails to demonstrate a  probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Digerati  Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,  883 [citations omitted] (“Digerati”).)     “Section 425.16 ‘does not accord anti-SLAPP protection to  suits arising from any act having any connection, however remote, with an  official proceeding. The statements or writings in question must occur in connection with ‘an issue under  consideration or review’ in the proceeding.’ [Citation.] Statements that ‘bear  [] no relationship to or ‘ha[ve] nothing to do with the claims under  consideration’ in the litigation do not meet that standard. [Citation.]” (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160  Cal.App.4th 1255, 1264, emphasis added.) "[A]lthough litigation may not  have commenced, if a statement "concern[s] the subject of the  dispute" and is made "in anticipation of litigation `contemplated in  good faith and under serious consideration'" [citation] then the statement  may be petitioning activity protected by section 425.16." (Id., at p. 1268; see also Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope Opportunity  (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1115.)   Here, there is no dispute that the Second Cause of Action is  seeking liability based on a letter Defendant Tyrnauer’s counsel, Mr. Stone,  mailed to counsel for Altimeter Films,Inc., as well as other professionals  employed by or connected to Altimeter, the entity that was the victim of the alleged  $231,000 embezzlement. (Petition, Exhibit A.) Moreover, there can be no  reasonable argument that at the time counsel Stone sent the letter, Defendant  Tyrnauer was “serious[ly] consider[ing]” litigation concerning the $231,000  wire transfer as Mr. Stone had drafted a complaint and had corresponded with  Plaintiff’s counsel accordingly. (Declaration of Daniel G. Stone (Stone Decl.)  ¶¶ 4-8.) Indeed, not only did counsel Stone indicate in the text of the letter  that “[w]e are writing to advise you of the possibility of litigation,” and the  subject matter of the dispute, more significantly, counsel Stone ultimately  filed that complaint on behalf of Tyrnauer. (Id. at ¶ 8; see also Notice of Related Case.)    The disagreement is whether sending the letter to the  named recipients—Altimeter’s lawyer, accountant, bookkeeper as well as a talent  agent and talent manager—was reasonably related to this litigation. These individuals  are not parties to the litigation nor  does moving party contend that they are potential parties. Nonetheless, Defendant  maintains that the letter sent to third parties was protected communication since  the statements were made “in connection with” pending or anticipated litigation.  Plaintiff responds that the statements “had no conceivable connection to any  possible dispute over the $231,000 loan.” (Opposition at p. 5.)In construing  the term “in connection with” pending or anticipated  ligation, case law has consistently afforded broad protection to statements directed  to non-parties. (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008)160  Cal. App. 4th 1255, 1270 (Neville) [letter warning customers to  avoid doing business with former employee to preclude the risk of being ensarled  as material witnesses];(Contemporary Services Corporation v.  Staff Pro Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1055(CSC ) [e-mail to customers accusing  competitor of litigation-related misconduct]; Healy v. Tuscany Hills  Landscaping & Recreation Corp.  (2006)137 Cal.App.4th1,  5–6 (Healy) [letter from homeowners’ association to nonparty  association members].)   Healy, CSC, and Neville are particularly informative.    In Healy, supra, 137  Cal.App.4th 1, a homeowners association  needed to gain access to homeowner’s property for weed abatement to reduce the  risk of  a fire hazard. The homeowner refused  to grant the association permission so the association sued the homeowner. Thereafter  Counsel for the association sent a letter to other homeowner members of the  development informing them that, “The Association is performing this weed  abatement at an additional cost to the Association, primarily because of [sic  ] ingress and egress through the gate at the end of Villa Scencero is being  prohibited by the owner of 6 Villa Scencero [the homeowner]. Please note,  normal weed abatement is a standard part of the landscape maintenance contract  expense. However, where ingress and egress is changed and more difficult, a  cost is charged. This cost has a direct impact on operating expenses and  assessments.” (Id. at p. 4.) The homeowner filed a cross-complaint asserting the  letter was defamatory. In the resulting anti-SLAPP motion to strike, the Court  of Appeal concluded that the letter to third parties was protected speech. “Because one purpose of the letter,” the court stated, “was  to inform members of the association of pending litigation involving the  association, the letter is unquestionably ‘in connection with’ judicial  proceedings (§ 425.16,  subd. (e)(2)) and bears ‘ “some relation” ’ to judicial  proceedings. [Citations.]” (Id. at pp. 5–6.)    In CSC, the plaintiff and defendant were business competitors who sued  one another. (CSC, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th. at pp.  1047–1048.) During the course of the litigation,  defendant’s  president sent an e-mail to  nine of defendant’ clients in which the president accused plaintiff of paying  former employees of defendant to “ ‘make false statements in declarations  [which] ... were then presented to [defendant’s] clients . . . .’ ” (Id. at p. 1050.) The trial  court concluded that the e-mail was protected activity. The Court  of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s order relying upon Healy. “Meredith's e-mail,” the court said, “... constitutes a  litigation update, which describes the parties' contentions and court rulings,  and is directed to individuals who had some involvement in the parties'  litigation.” (Id. at p. 1055.)   In Neville, Maxsecurity terminated  defendant Neville, alleging that Neville was a former employe who misappropriated  a customer list and solicited those customers after forming a rival business. (Neville, supra, 160 Cal. App. 4th at p. 1259.) Maxsecurity’s counsel sent a  letter to their customers which, in relevant part, said the following:    “Please be advised that this office represents Maxsecurity  in the above-matter [sic  ]. It has recently come to our attention that a former employee of *1260 Maxsecurity may have  been in contact with you, or may attempt to contact you. The name of the former  employee is Mark Neville, and he may be representing himself as ABD Audio and  Video.   “Mr. Neville is in direct violation of an employment and  confidentiality agreement he had with Maxsecurity. Mr. Neville's relationship  with Maxsecurity ended at the end of last year. Contact and/or communication  with Maxsecurity customers was, and is, specifically prohibited under his  employment contract. We have notified Mr. Neville of his breach and shall be  aggressively pursue [sic  ] all available remedies.   “Any work contracted with Mr. Neville or his company would  be in violation of our agreement with him. In order to avoid any involvement in  litigation that my [sic  ] arise between us and Mr. Neville (as a material witness, or otherwise), we  suggest that you have no further dealings with Mr. Neville or his company. You  should know that any monies paid to him or his company properly belong to  Maxsecurity, and we shall, if necessary, seek an accounting of all monies paid  out.”   (Neville, supra, 160 Cal. App. 4th at pp.  1259–60.) Neville filed a cross-complaint alleging the letter was defamatory.  The trial court granted a special motion to strike, finding the letter was protected  activity. The Court of Appeal affirmed, specifically rejecting Neville’s  contention that the letter was not protected because it was sent to non-parties.  (Id. at p. 1266.) As the Court of  Appeal explained, the “Letter related directly to Maxsecurity's . . . claims against  Neville. . . .The Letter was directed to Maxsecurity's current and former  customers—persons whom Maxsecurity reasonably could believe had an interest in  the dispute as potential witnesses to, or unwitting participants in, Neville's alleged misconduct. The  Letter constituted an attempt to prevent further misuse of Maxsecurity's  proprietary information, and thereby mitigate Maxsecurity's potential damage.  [And] the Letter contained no statements of  fact concerning Neville that were not based on or related to the allegations  that formed the basis of Maxsecurity's claims. (Id. at pp. 1267–68.)    As Neville pointed out, “these cases stand  for the proposition that a statement is ‘in connection with’ litigation under section 425.16, subdivision  (e)(2) if it relates to the substantive issues in the litigation  and is directed to persons having some interest in the litigation. (Neville, supra, 160  Cal. App. 4th at p. 1266.) Here, Defendant Tyrnauer made a threshold showing  that the letter constituted protected activity in that the letter set forth the  substance of the dispute and was directed to individuals  who may have an interest in and information about  the litigation    First, the letter described the substance the dispute.   “The dispute involves a $231,000 wire  transfer from the Company’s City National Bank account to Lawyers Title Company  (Inland Empire Escrow Trust Account) dated March 11, 2019. This transfer was  made at the direction of Corey Reeser in connection with his personal purchase  of real property. Mr. Reeser contends that this transaction was a loan that was  approved by and subsequently repaid to the Company. Mr. Tyrnauer contends that  he did not know of or approve this transaction.” (Stone Decl., Ex. 4.) Notably,  as in Healy and CSC, the letter informs the third-parties of the nature of the  dispute, setting forth each parties contentions in a neutral fashion. Nor, as Neville  noted, did the letter include statements “of fact that were not based on or  related to the allegations that formed the basis of” Tyrnauer’ claims.  (Neville, supra, 160 Cal. App. 4th at p. 1268.) Second, the third parties  may have an interest in the litigation. As in Neville, these third parties are potential witnesses or even unwitting  participants who may have evidence that is reasonably related to the disputed  issues. Thus, it is more than arguable, as Plaintiff concedes, that Altimeter’s  lawyer, accountant, bookkeeper may have an interest in the litigation. As Defendant  further explained, the accountants and bookkeepers reported to Plaintiff Reeser  and not to Defendant.  (Ex. 3 Stone  3.19.24 letter at P. 1.) Moreover, these parties may have had documentary evidence  that needed to be preserved. The letter also served as notice to the Altimeter’s  “attorneys, accountant and bookkeeper” to preserve the evidence. (Ex. 3 Stone  3.19.24 letter at P. 4.) As to the talent agents, they too may have possessed information  regarding revenue, expense payments and distributions  in their capacity as  agents  or representatives of the entity and Reeser. In fact, the letter closed by specifically  solicited their assistance. “If you have any information or documentation about  this transaction, or any other suspicious transaction, please let us know.” (Stone  Decl., Ex. 4.) Therefore, as in Neville,  the letter concerned the subject of the dispute and was made in anticipation of  litigation. Plaintiff’s argument that the letter did not concern the litigation  because it was not directed to interested parties ultimately fails.   Accordingly, Second Cause of Action arises from protected  activity.   Prong 2:  “Probability of prevailing on the claims”    When defendants carry their initial burden to make a prima  facie showing that the claims are subject to CCP § 425.16, the burden shifts to  the plaintiff to establish a probability that they will prevail at trial on  that claim by making a prima facie showing on that claim.¿ (Roberts v. Los Angeles County Bar Assoc.¿(2003)  105 Cal.App.4th 604, 613.)¿ “Put another way, the plaintiffs ‘must demonstrate  that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient  prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence  submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ [Citations.]”¿ (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467,  1477-78).¿ “Thus, plaintiffs' burden as to the second prong of the anti-SLAPP  test is akin to that of a party opposing a motion for summary judgment.”¿ (Id.)¿ While the Court does not weigh the  evidence, “the trial court must consider facts so as to make a determination  whether [Cross-Complainants] can establish a prima facie probability of  prevailing on [their] claims.”¿ (Blanchard  v. DIRECTV, Inc.¿(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 903, 921.)¿¿ “If there is a  conflict in the evidence (the existence of a disputed material fact), the  anti-SLAPP motion should be denied. (Citizens  of Humanity, LLC v. Hass (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 589, 598.)      Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), provides that a  privileged publication or broadcast is one made “[i]n any (1) legislative  proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding  authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or course of any other proceeding  authorized by law and reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2…of Title 1 of Part 3 of  the Code of Civil Procedure…”   The judicial proceeding privilege, also known as the  “litigation privilege,” applies to communications (1) made in a judicial or  quasi-judicial proceeding; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by  law; (3) to achieve the objects of litigation; and (4) that has some connection  or logical relation to the action. (Dickinson  v. Cosby (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 655, 681-82.) This privilege, however, is  not limited to statements made during a trial or other proceeding, but may  extend to steps taken prior to the commencement of litigation. (Id. at p. 682.) “The test is: ‘To be  protected by the litigation privilege, a communication must be “in furtherance  of the objects of the litigation.” [Citation.] This is “part of the requirement  that the communication be connected with, or have some logical relation to, the  action, i.e., that it not be extraneous to the action.” [Citation.]’ ” (Id.)     Importantly, the litigation privilege is an absolute  privilege that applies to all publications, irrespective of their  maliciousness, and bars all causes of action except for a claim of malicious  prosecution. (Kenne v. Stennis (2014)  230 Cal.App.4th 953, 964-65.) The privilege is so broad it applies to the  presentation of potentially false evidence. (Seltzer v. Barnes (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 953, 969-70.) The Court in  Seltzer explained:     “The principal purpose of the¿Civil Code section 47  litigation privilege ‘ “is to afford litigants and witnesses [citation] the  utmost freedom of access to the courts without fear of being harassed  subsequently by derivative tort actions. [Citations.]” [Citation.] The  privilege promotes effective judicial proceedings by encouraging “ ‘open  channels of communication and the presentation of evidence’ ” without the  external threat of liability. [Citation.] The litigation privilege “further  promotes the effectiveness of judicial proceedings by encouraging attorneys to  zealously protect their clients' interests.” [Citation.] “Finally, in  immunizing participants from liability for torts arising¿from communications  made during judicial proceedings, the law places upon litigants the burden of  exposing during trial the bias of witnesses and the falsity of evidence,  thereby enhancing the finality of judgments and avoiding an unending roundelay  of litigation, an evil far worse than an occasional unfair result. [Citations.]”  [Citation.]’¿[Citation.] ‘ “Although originally enacted with reference to  defamation actions alone [citation], the privilege has been extended to¿any¿communication, whether or not it is  a publication, and to¿all¿torts other  than malicious prosecution. [Citations.] Thus, the privilege has been applied  to suits for fraud [citations], negligence and negligent misrepresentation  [citation], and interference with contract [citation].”  [Citation.]’¿[Citation.]”      Here, Plaintiff did not meet their burden to demonstrate  probability of success on the merits. Notably, Plaintiff’s claim for defamation  per se is based on a letter made in anticipation of litigation that is  protected by the litigation privilege.    Accordingly, Defendant Tyrnauer’s Special Motion to  Strike as to the Second Cause of Action is GRANTED.   CONCLUSION:               For  the foregoing reasons, the court decides the pending motion as follows:    1.      Special  Motion to Strike the Second Cause of Action is GRANTED. Moving party is to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.    Dated:              January 10, 2025                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court       