Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV20056
Plaintiff's Name: Linda Rae Biesecker-Kesting
Defendant's Name: Charter Communications, Inc.
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Charter Communications, Inc.
Places: 
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements:
  - "On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement." (Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1281.2, subds. (a), (b))
  - "Parties to an arbitration agreement may agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the enforceability of the agreement." (Tiri v. Lucky Chances Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241)
  - "Unconscionability generally requires a finding of both procedural and substantive unconscionability." (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533)
  - "Procedural unconscionability addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power." (Haydon v. Elegance at Dublin (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 1280, 1287)
  - "Substantive unconscionability exists when a contract 'imposes unduly harsh or one-sided results.'" (Haydon, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 1289)
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge grants Defendant Charter Communications, Inc.'s motion to compel arbitration and stay this action pending the outcome of the arbitration. The judge finds that a valid arbitration agreement exists between the parties and that the delegation clause in the agreement is clear and unmistakable. The judge also finds that the delegation clause is not procedurally or substantively unconscionable, as the contract is one of adhesion but does not impose unduly harsh or one-sided results. The judge orders the parties to arbitrate the controversy and stays the proceedings pending the outcome of the arbitration.