 Case Number:  22STCV30400    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  B  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



SERGIO MOSQUEDA, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
  
            vs.
 
 
MARTIN JUNIOR BECERRA, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 22STCV30400
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LYFT, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  OCTOBER
   3, 2024
TIME:  8:30
   A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: OCTOBER 7, 2022
TRIAL
  DATE: MARCH 17, 2025



 
I.      
BACKGROUND  
On
October 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Martin Junior Becerra
(“Becerra”), Rafael Rico Estrada (“Estrada”), Sergio Mosqueda (“Mosqueda”),
Lyft, and DOES 1-50 (“DOES”)(collectively “Defendants”), for damages from an
October 13, 2020, vehicle collision, alleging that Defendants negligently
entrusted, maintained, and operated their vehicle, resulting in collision with
Alvarez’s vehicle. Alvarez alleges injuries and damages as a result. (Alvarez
Complaint ¶¶ 9-10.) 
On
September 16, 2022, prior to Plaintiff’s initial complaint, Mosqueda filed a
separate complaint for negligence arising from the same vehicle collision,
naming Becerra, Estrada, and DOES 1-50 as defendants.  
On
June 5, 2024, Berrera filed a motion to consolidate the actions commenced by
Mosqueda’s September 16, 2022, complaint and Plaintiff’s October 7, 2022
complaint.  
On
June 6, 2024, the Court granted Berrera’s motion to consolidate. 
On
July 17, 2024, Lyft filed the instant motion to compel arbitration of all
claims asserted by Plaintiff. 
On
July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Lyft’s motion to compel. 
On
September 25, 2024, Lyft filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion to compel arbitration on the following grounds: (1) the case
involves third parties not bound to Lyft’s arbitration agreement, and therefore
arbitration risks inconsistent verdicts arising from the same facts; and (2) no
valid arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and Lyft. 
 
II. LEGAL STANDARDS
Evidentiary
Objections 
Lyft’s
September 25, 2024 evidentiary objections to Plaintiff’s August 27, 2024
declaration are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, and 3. Lyft’s objections
substantially misquote Plaintiff’s declaration and are therefore inapt. 
            Motion to Compel Arbitration 
In deciding a motion to
compel arbitration, trial courts must first decide whether an enforceable
arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second
gateway issue of whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.
(See Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955,
961.)(See also Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc. (9th
Cir. 2000) 207 F. 3d 1126, 1130 (“The court’s role under the [Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”)] is therefore limited to determining (1) whether a
valid agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement
encompasses the dispute at issue.”).  “The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 64 Cal.Rptr.2d 903, 915-16.) “In
these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing
all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as
oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ibid. at 916.) No jury trial is available for a
petition to compel arbitration. (Ibid.)  
Accordingly,
under both the FAA and California Law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions,
Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)   
 
III.
DISCUSSION 
            Existence of a Valid Arbitration
Agreement 
            Lyft proved the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement with Plaintiff. Lyft submitted evidence that on January
12, 2019, Plaintiff affirmatively accepted Lyft’s February 6, 2018, Terms of
Service (“Terms”)(McCachern Decl. ¶ 12; Compendium of Evidence (“COE”) Ex. 4.)
Plaintiff could not have ordered the ride at issue on October 13, 2020, without
affirmatively accepting these Terms. (McCachern Decl. ¶ 8.) To order a ride on
the Lyft platform, riders must first create a Lyft user account on Lyft’s
mobile app. (Ibid. at ¶ 7.) After creating an account, the Lyft user
must accept Lyft’s most current terms of service before ordering a ride. (Ibid.
at ¶ 8.) Plaintiff does not deny ordering the October 13, 2020, ride with his
Lyft account. 
            The Terms provide that Lyft and
Plaintiff mutually “AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF
DISPUTES IN A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE
BY ARBITRATION…” 
(COE
Ex. 4.) 
            The Terms also provide the
following: 
“This agreement to arbitrate
(“Arbitration Agreement”) is governed by the Federal Arbitration
Act…  
 
 …These Claims include, but
are not limited to, any dispute, claim, or controversy, whether based on past,
present, or future events, arising out of or relating to: [the Terms] and prior
versions thereof (including the breach, termination, enforcement,
interpretation, or validity thereof), the Lyft Platform, the Services, any
goods or services made available through the Lyft Platform, [and] your
relationship with Lyft…  
(COE
Ex. 4.) 
            Plaintiff’s claim against Lyft, which
alleges negligent entrustment of a motor vehicle, directly relates to the
rideshare service made available through Lyft’s platform. Therefore, pursuant
to the Terms, the arbitration agreement covers Plaintiff’s claim. 
            Plaintiff argues that Lyft’s Terms
contain “no indicia to call [the arbitration agreement]’s attention to the
reader.” (See Opposition p. 4, lines 19-20.) However, there is an
all-caps advisory of the binding arbitration agreement at the very beginning of
the Terms which Plaintiff accepted. (COE Ex. 4.) This advisory also points
users to Section 17 where they may read the agreement in detail. (Ibid.)
Section 17 provides the agreement in large, conspicuous text and plain
language. Additionally, Lyft’s terms of service are always available to its
users for review within the app. (McCachern Decl. ¶ 9.) Therefore, the Court
does not find merit in Plaintiff’s argument. 
            Lyft has proved the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Lyft and therefore meets its
initial burden. 
            Plaintiff’s Burden 
            The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to
demonstrate a valid defense against enforceability of the
Agreement.  
             Plaintiff argues that
arbitration would risk inconsistent verdicts in disputes arising from the same
accident since it involves third parties who are not bound to Lyft’s Terms.
(Opposition pp. 2-4.) Specifically, Plaintiff argues that the FAA only applies
to litigation where the legal rights of all litigants are “referable to arbitration.”
(Opposition p. 3, lines 6-8.) Therefore, Plaintiff contends, the FAA does not
apply to the instant litigation since the legal rights of all parties involved
are not referable. (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiff cites California Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281.2(c) which allows courts to refuse the enforce an
arbitration agreement if it determines that “[a] party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.” (CCP § 1281.2(c).) A “third party” is one who is neither
bound by nor entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement. (Daniels v.
Sunrise Living, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 674, 679.) Additionally,
arbitration agreements governed by the FAA do not preclude application of CCP §
1281.2, since the state’s statutory scheme is designed to enforce parties’
arbitration agreements as the FAA procedurally requires. (Williams v. Atria
Las Posas (2018) 235 Cal.Rptr.3d 341, 346). For the FAA to preclude CCP §
1281.2, the arbitration agreement must explicitly state that FAA procedural
rules are to apply. (Ibid.) 
            Here, Plaintiff, a party to the
Arbitration Agreement with Lyft, is also a party to the instant action which
involves third parties Becerra and Estrada. Becerra is the operator of the
other vehicle involved in the collision and Estrada is the owner of said
vehicle. Neither party is affiliated with Lyft, nor were they using Lyft’s
goods or services at the time of the collision. Therefore, they are neither
bound by nor entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement. Additionally, there
is a risk of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. Plaintiff
named both Becerra and Estrada as Defendants in his action for negligence.
There remains a possibility that, if Lyft and Plaintiff proceed to arbitration,
an arbitrator could find Mosqueda wholly responsible for the collision while
this Court simultaneously finds Becerra and/or Estrada wholly
responsible. 
            Lyft’s Reply 
            Lyft denies § 1281.2’s applicability
on the grounds that “[t]he U.S. Supreme Court has expressly rejected arguments
that courts may deny a motion to compel arbitration based on the presence of
non-signatory third parties to the agreement.” (Reply, pp. 2-3, lines 26-1.)
Specifically, Lyft states that “[u]nder the FAA, an arbitration agreement must
be enforced notwithstanding the presence of other persons who are parties to
the underlying dispute but not to the arbitration agreement” even if doing so
produces “piecemeal resolution[s].” (Reply, p. 3, lines 4-6 [quoting Moses
H. Cone Mem. Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 20, emphasis
added.])  
            Lyft also relies on Laswell v. AG
Seal Beach, LLC (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1399 to dispute § 1281.2’s
applicability. However, both Moses and Laswell differ from the
case at hand. In these cases, the Court enforced arbitration agreements despite
the presence of non-signatory third parties because the third parties had the
power to enforce the agreement. (Moses, at p. 25 [arbitration agreement
between hospital and contractor when contractor subcontracted with architect])
(Laswell, at p. 1407 [third party was parent company of party to
arbitration agreement and thus had the power to enforce the agreement]). 
            Here, unlike the third parties in Moses
and Laswell, Becerra and Estrada are distinct third parties who
neither signed the arbitration agreement nor have the capacity to
enforce. 
            Therefore, CCP § 1281.2(c) applies to
the instant action. Arbitration may not proceed because there is a risk of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION
              CCP § 1281.2(c) applies to the instant
action. Therefore, Lyft’s motion to compel arbitration is denied. 
 
 
Dated: October 3,
2024                                   __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon. Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court