 Case Number:  24STCV00648    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARTIN TELLECHEA, an Individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, a public entity;
and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV04608
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT
  CITY OF LOS ANGELES; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Date: July 18, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Martin Tellechea (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This case arises from an incident that
occurred on March 23, 2023, when Plaintiff allegedly tripped and fell due to an
uneven/raised portion of a sidewalk owned and maintained by Defendant.  On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant asserting the following causes of action: (1) general
negligence; and (2) premises liability.  
            On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant with a Request for Monetary Sanctions
(the “Motion”).  On July 3, 2024,
Defendant filed an opposition; Plaintiff filed a reply on July 11, 2024.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             Parties have complied with the meet and confer
requirements. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Any party may obtain discovery by taking
the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Service of a
proper deposition notice is “effective to require any deponent who is a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)  If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party fails to appear for examination or
fails to produce for inspection any document described in the deposition
notice, without having served a valid objection under section 2025.410, the
party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling attendance or
production. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  Such a motion “shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)
 
C.C.P. 2025.450(g)(1) states that:
“If a motion [to compel deposition] is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction… in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  
 
Motion
            Plaintiff states that it served Defendants with two deposition notices on
two occasions: (1) on March 26, 2024, Plaintiff served his Notice of Taking
Deposition of Employee(s) and/or Person(s) Most Qualified for Defendant,
noticing the deposition for April 22, 2024 (Declaration of Nima Sadeghian
(“Sadeghian Decl.”), ¶ 3, Exh. 1); and (2) on May 1, 2024, Plaintiff served his
Notice of First Continuance of Taking Deposition of Employee(s) and/or
Person(s) Most Qualified for Defendant, noticing the deposition to take place
on May 22, 2024 (Sadeghian Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) 

 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant failed to serve
valid objections and refused to appear for deposition despite the properly
served deposition notices.  Plaintiff
further asserts that Defendant refuses to provide Plaintiff’s counsel with
alternative and reasonable available dates for Defendant’s deposition, and
claims that the delay in the discovery process will affect his ability to
prepare for the upcoming trial. 
 
Opposition
            Defendant points out that no trial date was set when the Motion was
filed.  Additionally, Defendant asserts
that Plaintiff unilaterally chose deposition dates without considering the
availability of the Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) for Defendant, despite
Defendant’s having provided those dates to Plaintiff.  Defendant argues that it responded with an
objection to Plaintiff’s notices of deposition, and provided alternative dates when
its PMQ, Glenn LaCoure, would be available. 
(Declaration of Carolyn Phillips, ¶¶ 2-5.)  Defendant’s PMQ states that he is unavailable
for the dates noticed in Plaintiff’s deposition notices, and that his current earliest
availability for a deposition is on September 24, 2024.  (Declaration of Glenn LaCoure, ¶¶ 3-5.) 
 
Reply
            In reply, Plaintiff
argues that providing a deposition date more than four months in the future is
unreasonable.
 
RULING
            The Local Rules
provide that reasonable consideration is to be given to accommodating
schedules.  (Los Angeles Superior Court
Local Rules, Appendix 3.A, Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, subsection
(e)(2) [“In scheduling depositions, reasonable consideration should be given to
accommodating schedules or opposing counsel and of the deponent, where it is
possible to do so without prejudicing the client’s rights.”].)  
 
The
Court notes that the trial date in this case is currently set for August 18,
2025.  As such, the Court considers the deposition
date of September 24, 2024, agreed upon by Defendant, to be reasonable.  The Court also finds that there is no
prejudice to Plaintiff, as the trial date is more than a year away from the
date of this Order.
 
Both
parties are requesting monetary sanctions against each other.  The Court does not find that monetary
sanctions are warranted in this case.  Therefore,
no monetary sanctions are imposed.
 
RULING
            Plaintiff’s Motion is DENIED.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 18th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 