  Case Number:  22PSCV00888    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
RKA
CONSULTING GROUP'S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION is GRANTED. 
 
Background[1]
 
This case
pertains to the evacuation of over 150 residents at the condominium units
located at Diamond Bar Village (“DBV”). Plaintiffs, the owners of condominium
units, allege the following against Defendants THE AVALON MANAGEMENT GROUP,
INC. (“Avalon”), a California corporation; DIAMOND BAR VILLAGE ASSOCIATION
(“HOA” or “DBV”), a California nonprofit corporation; LARRY CARMACK, an
individual; JAMES HOPKINS, an individual; KHATRI INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Nevada
corporation and DIPLIP MULCHAND KHATRI, an individual (collectively, “Khatri
Defendants” or “Khatri”); RKA CONSULTING GROUP, a California corporation
(“RKA”); CITY OF DIAMOND BAR, a governmental entity (occasionally referred to
as the “City”): On September 27, 2021, Defendants Avalon and the HOA sent an
e-mail to all the residents and owners of DBV, including Plaintiffs, advising
them for the first time that all the residents may need to evacuate the Subject
Property due to “impending risk to the health and safety of residents from the
roof rafter conditions.” (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶75.)
The City’s Notice
and Order to Vacate DBV (“Vacate Order”) referenced a 2017 report that found
similar problems with Termite, Dry Rot, and structural damage. However,
Plaintiffs were not informed about the 2017 report; therefore, the first time
Plaintiffs learned of any possible massive evacuation was in 2021. That said,
the Vacate Order was rescinded because on October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs’ own
structural engineer determined that there was no imminent threat of collapse to
the buildings at DBV. Although the Vacate Order had been rescinded by the City,
Plaintiffs still suffered damages because they “had to pay their tenants
relocation fees and lost rent for months . . . and had to live through the
chaos, discomfort, trash being dumped everywhere, the swimming pool being green
and full of mosquitos, the lack of maintenance to the Subject Property, the
news reporters being at the Subject Property, and the threat of fines and
penalties being levied by the City and being arrested by the police for failure
to vacate by October 18, 2021.” (FAC ¶100.) 
 
On August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs filed suit.
 
On May 7, 2024, the court issues its final ruling on Avalon’s MSJ
re: Plaintiffs’ Complaint and the Cross-Complaint filed against DBV wherein the
court granted both motions.
 
On August 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal (as to the
court’s ruling on Avalon’s MSJ).
 
On August 22, 2024, RKA filed the instant motion.
 
On October 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
On October 31, 2024, RKA filed its reply.
 
Discussion[2]
 
This motion
is based on the grounds that: 
 
1.     Plaintiffs' Fourth Cause of Action for
Negligence is without merit because Plaintiffs cannot establish that RKA
breached any duty of care causing damages to Plaintiffs. 
2.     Plaintiffs' Fourth Cause of Action for
Negligence is without merit since Plaintiffs' claim for economic damages is
barred by the Economic Loss Rue. 
 
Specifically,
RKA argues that it did not owe a duty—whether by statute, contractual, or
obligation—to undertake the three alleged duties. Even assuming RKA owed a duty
of care, RKA did not breached its alleged duty of care as three of the alleged
duties were completed. 
 
For reasons to be discussed, namely that the main
allegation against RKA—that it erroneously determined that the buildings were
in threat of imminent collapse is based upon the incorrect standard—the motion
is granted. (See Reply p.
5:9-11, citing Opp. p. 19:26-28 [“The undisputed facts are that there was no
imminent threat to health and safety of the residents of DBV, and the Vacate
Order should not have been issued in the first place.”].)
 
 
 
 
A.     Series of Events/Context 
 
The following
are relevant facts gathered from the motion, separate statement, and response
to the SS.[3]

 
-       
On
June 7, 2011, RKA contracted with the City of Diamond Bar (“City”) to provide
building official services for the City’s Building and Safety Services
Department. (See RKA’s Evidence, Ex. B, Ex. 1 [agreement between RKA and the
City], p. 276 of 416 of PDF.) 
-       
Per
the agreement, RKA was an “independent contractor to provide building official
services to [the] City.” 
-       
As
more specifically laid out in the ‘Scope of Work’ section of the ‘Request for
Proposal Building & Safety Services,’ the scope of working included
“interpreting and administering codes in accordance with State law, providing
timely and accurate information to the City and public regarding any changes or
amendments to applicable building & safety codes or building construction
standards, offering specialized technical support to assist City Staff in
providing development or code enforcement (related to violations of building
& safety standards) services as needed, performing on-site inspection
services for capital projects undertaken by the city, and attending and
participating in public and internal staff meetings as directed.” (pp. 285-416
of PDF.) 
-       
According
to Jason McEwen’s declaration, an attorney that provided legal services for the
City and who is familiar with the files related to the subject
property/dispute, “[b]ased on RKA's appointment as the City's Building
Official, RKA had the power and the authority to act and to enforce all
provisions of the Diamond Bar Municipal Code related to building standards and
construction, as well as all related building and housing related codes adopted
by reference by the Diamond Bar Municipal Code, including, but not limited to,
the 1997 Uniform Housing Code [UHC].” (Ex. C, p. 359 of 416 of PDF, P4.)[4]

-       
Under
the UHC, "[b]uildings or portions thereof that are to be determined to be
substandard as defined in this code are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in
accordance with the procedure specified in Chapter 11 of this code. (Motion p.
p, quoting UHC section 202.) Thus, pursuant to the UHC, a Building Official can
issue a vacate order merely on a finding of substandard building
conditions. (See e.g., SS No. 56 [“Thus, regardless of whether the condition
rose to the level of imminent danger, the vacate order was valid since
substandard conditions existed. As such, whether or not Ray thought the
conditions rose to the level of imminent danger is irrelevant.”].) 
-       
In
or about June 2017, the City and Tao became aware of deficient building
conditions and the DBV A provided a report from its retained structural
engineer, Dilip Khatri. (SS No. 12.) 
-       
Khatri
first published his report on the structural investigation in 2017. Per the
2017 Khatri Report, certain areas of the buildings were exposed for
investigation. The conclusion of the report was, “The Buildings ... do not pose
an immediate life safety threat.” (Plaintiffs’ Response to SS No. 13,
emphasis added.) 
-       
In
January 2020, the City at Tao's direction conducted a "Building &
Safety and Neighborhood Improvement" inspection of the complex and based
on this inspection provided the DBV A with a correction list. (SS No. 14.)
-       
Tao
contacted a structural engineering firm to investigate the DBV A and was
willing to contract with the structural engineering firm on behalf of DBVA. (SS
No. 17.)
-       
In
response, on September 7, 2021, Yvette Allen, DBVA's property manager indicated
that the DBVA would prefer to use Khatri to conduct the structural engineering
investigation. (SS No. 19.)
-       
In
September 2021, Khatri issued his second report stating that destructive test
was required, which required that the second-floor units be vacated, and he did
recommend immediate evacuation of the balconies. (Plaintiffs’ Response to SS
No. 28, citing Khatri’s Declaration in in Reply to RKA's Opposition to Khatri's
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement, SS No. 88 [“If RKA
dete1mined in September or October 2021 substandard conditions at the property.
It is undisputed that to issue the Vacate Order, it apparently did so
substandard conditions existed at the based solely on its independent analysis
and not property at the time RKA issued its on any recommendation by Khatri, as
I did not recommend immediate evacuation of the second vacate order. Thus,
regardless of floor unit.”].) 
 
B.    Relevant Allegations
 
As the
pleadings frame the issues, the court turns to the relevant portions of the
FAC. As to the negligence COA against RKA, they are found in paragraphs
148-183, but the specific allegations as to duty are found in paragraph
176, which exactly states as follows:
 
As for RKA CONSULTING defendants, and each of them, they breached their
duty to Plaintiffs, including, but not limited to, the following actions: 
 
(a) Total failure to conduct a background check on MR. KHATRI to
determine any and all previous licensing issues with his civil and structural
engineering licenses; 
 
(b) Total failure to get a licensed structural engineer to determine
whether DBV should be red or yellow tagged and whether there was imminent
threat of collapse to the buildings of DBV; and 
 
(c) Total failure to obtain a second opinion from another licensed
structural engineer after receiving the 2021 KHATRI REPORT before advising the
CITY OF DIAMOND BAR to red and yellow tag each and every condominium unit of
DBV.
 
At the
outset, as with Avalon’s MSJ, Plaintiffs again argue that the moving party is
not addressing all theories of liability. (See Opp. p. 8.) As stated before, it
is neither the court nor Defendant’s obligation to sift through 189 paragraphs
to determine which allegations are relevant. For example, Plaintiffs argue that
an alleged theory of breach is Tao’s alleged failure to conduct his own proper
investigation by citing to paragraph 170 in the FAC. (Opp. p. 8:21-24.) But
paragraph 170 merely provides a copy of the amended (tort) claim. (FAC, Ex.
12.) Plaintiffs have provided no authority that the government tort claim can
serve as a substitute for pleading allegations in a complaint,
and perhaps there isn’t such authority as the
claim “need not specify each particular act or omission later proven to have
caused the injury” but merely give the public entity adequate information for
the public entity to investigate the claims.”[5] (Stockett v.
Association of Cal. Water Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34
Cal.4th 441, 449-450.) If the court were to solely look at the tort claim as
the allegations, then it is unclear why the FAC has omitted its basis for suing
RKA based upon the belief that RKA “potentially conspired with third parties to
red and yellow tag [the units] and diminish the value of the [units] in order
to sell The Village to third parties for pennies on the dollar for
redevelopment purposes (“Land Grab”).” (FAC Ex. 12, ¶10.) 
 
Notwithstanding, as the basis of the
opposition and SS and additional statements focus on the premise that a
Building Official can only issue a Vacate Order upon a finding that there is an
imminent threat that a building may collapse, the court will focus on
that issue. (See e.g.,
Plaintiffs’ Opposition generally [30 references to ‘imminent’; see also
Plaintiffs’ Opp. to RKA’s SS [83 references to ‘imminent’]; e.g., Plaintiffs’
Response to SS No. 7 [“In fact, Raymond Tao concluded that collapse was
imminent but could not identify any documents in support thereof, creating
a disputable fact whether he acted reasonably in issuing the Vacate
Order.”], emphasis added; No. 34 [“At all times mentioned, Raymond Tao failed
to provide any inspection report of his own supporting his claim that the
buildings were subject to imminent collapse. If he had, he would have concluded
that there was no evidence of imminent collapse like what Tom
Sabol, the City’s structural engineer (who was later retained), and Mr. Li have
all concluded.”], emphasis added.) But, for reasons that will be discussed,
“for purposes of this motion, ‘imminent’ collapse is a red herring.” (Reply p.
2:16-17.) 
 
C.    Uniform Housing Code 
 
According to
the ‘Notice and Order’ to vacate the premises issued on September 30, 2021, the
order was ‘concerning a substandard and dangerous building.’ (FAC, Ex.
1, see also RKA’s evidence, Ex. 1, p. 47 of 416 of PDF, emphasis added.) The
following is stated in the first paragraph of the ‘Building Official’s
Findings’: 
 
After inspections by a structural and civil engineer licensed by the
State of California, and retained by the Diamond Bar Village Homeowners
Association, inspection by City personnel, and review by the Building Official,
the Property, including all residential units thereon, and the clubhouse
building, have been determined to be substandard within the meaning
of the Diamond Bar Municipal Code, State Housing Laws (California Health
& Safety Code (hereinafter "H&S Code") Section 17920.3),
California Civil Code, California Civil Code of Regulations Title 24, and/or
all Uniform Codes adopted therein, including the 1997 Uniform Housing Code
("UHC") and the California Building Code ("CBC"). This
determination has been made based on the serious and dangerous conditions at
the Property, including, but not limited to, the following: 1. Those
conditions described in the June 15, 2017, and September 22, 2021 reports and
recommendations of structural and civil engineering firm Khatri International,
Inc. which is available upon request; 2. Structural Hazards in all buildings on
the Property, including deteriorated or inadequate foundations, defective or
deteriorated flooring and/or floor supports, members of vertical supports that
split, lean, list or buckle due to defective materials or deterioration, and
members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other horizontal
members that sag, split, or buckle due to defective materials or deterioration.
(See, H&S Code §17920.3(b); UHC §1001.3 . . . . (RKA’s Evidence, Ex. 1, p.
49 of 416 of PDF.) 
 
In turn, under the UHC, “buildings or portions thereof
that are to be determined to be substandard as defined in this code are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal….” (Motion p. 9, quoting UHC Section 202.) Structural
hazards which render a building substandard include “deteriorated or inadequate
foundations; defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports; members of
ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other horizontal members that
sags, splits or buckles due to defective material or deterioration; or members
of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other horizontal members that
are insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety.” (Motion p. 9,
quoting UHC § 1001.3.) Of note, “[i]f the building does not constitute an
immediate danger to the life, limb, property or safety of the public, it may be
vacated, secured and maintained against entry." (Motion p. 9, quoting UHC
Section 1103(1)(1.3).)
 
Accordingly, the crux of RKA’s motion is that Tao
need not have waited for an immediate or imminent danger, but
substandard conditions. But
neither of Plaintiffs’ expert, Roger Li nor Thomas Sabol indicate otherwise.
(See e.g., FAC ¶17 [no evidence of imminent collapse].) To the extent that Li’s
declaration takes issue with that exterior stucco is not a structural member or
that the wooden covering of the balconies is not a structural member (Li Decl.,
¶¶14, 15), that does not address all the reasons of substandard
conditions. Therefore, their declarations are irrelevant. Ultimately, as
noted by RKA in reply, the opposition doesn’t meaningfully address the point.
(See Reply p. 2:11-14 [“Plaintiffs' Opposition entirely ignores RKA's
undisputed facts that the subject Property was replete with significant
substandard building conditions justifying the issuance of the Vacate Order
pursuant to UHC § 1103 (1)(1.3). In fact, Plaintiffs do not address RKA'
argument concerning the UHC until page 19 of their Opposition.”].)
 
Therefore, as Plaintiffs seek to create triable issues of
material fact via the notion that the building was not in "imminent
collapse" but ‘imminent collapse’ is not the basis for determining whether
a vacate order should be issued, Plaintiffs' claims of negligent acts against
RKA are moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, the crux of the allegations against RKA are that
should they have complied with their alleged duties, then RKA would have
realized that the buildings were not in threat of imminent collapse. But, as
explained by RKA, ‘substandard conditions’ is the dispositive standard and
Plaintiffs do not address that standard. Based on the foregoing, the motion is
granted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


