  Case Number:  19STCV30353    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Ziad Alhassen,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV30353




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Tarek Alhassen, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September 29, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Confirm Appraisal
Moving Party: Defendants Hassen Holding Company,
Inc., et al.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Ziad Alhassen
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’
MOTION IS CONTINUED TO DECEMBER 7, 2023 AT 9:00AM.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
  
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
“A section 2000 shareholder buyout is a special proceeding that
supplants an action for involuntary dissolution of a corporation.”  (Goles v. Sawhney (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th
1014, 1018.) “Section 2000 provides that when a shareholder sues for
involuntary dissolution, the corporation, or the holders of 50 percent or more
of the voting power of the corporation, may avoid the dissolution by purchasing
for cash the shares owned by plaintiffs at their ‘fair value.’”  (Ibid.)  
 
“The statute defines ‘fair value’ as the ‘liquidation value as of the
valuation date but taking into account the possibility, if any, of sale of the
entire business as a going concern in a liquidation.”  (Ibid.)  “If the parties cannot agree on a valuation,
the trial court shall appoint three disinterested appraisers to appraise the
fair value of the shares.”  (Ibid.)  “The order shall prescribe the time and
manner of producing evidence, if evidence is required.  The award of the appraisers or of a majority
of them, when confirmed by the [trial] court, shall be final and conclusive
upon all parties.”  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen the determination of the fair value
of the shares by the appraisers, or a majority of them, is erroneous, it is the
duty of the trial court to examine the matter de novo and to fix a proper
value.”  (Mart v. Severson (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 521, 535 [internal quotations omitted].)  An award pursuant to section 2000 “requires
that at least two of the appraisals reach a consensus on fair value.”  (Goles v. Sawhney, supra, 5
Cal.App.5th at p. 1020.)
 
Defendants move to confirm the appraisal of Plaintiff’s share in
Defendant HHC for $97,833.00. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
challenges both the documents relied on by the appraisers and the manner the
appraisal was calculated. Plaintiff asserts the appraisers relied on financial
documents that are speculative and without foundation, and refused to consider
evidence provided by Plaintiff showing a single enterprise comprised of various
entities.
 
A key issue in performing the
calculation is whether to consider priority payments of profits from the
entities at issue on an “aggregate” or “individual” basis. HHC owns four
subsidiaries with Dighton, two of which have been dissolved and no longer exist.
Dighton made capital contributions to each of the four subsidiaries with
priority return agreements, meaning profits from the subsidiaries would be
distributed first to Dighton until Dighton’s capital contributions had been
paid back. The partnership agreements for each entity treat each capital
contribution and priority payment agreement separately, meaning profits from
one company cannot be used to repay capital contributions to another. Plaintiff
asserts Defendants’ capital contributions to the existing entities have long
been repaid.
 
Defendants assert, and the
appraisers agreed, that despite the partnership agreements, profits from one
subsidiary were paid to Dighton to repay capital contributions to other
subsidiaries. This resulted in 99% of the profits from one subsidiary being
distributed to Dighton and 1% being distributed to HHC over several years. The
appraisers thus determined that HHC’s interest in this subsidiary was 1%,
rather than the 45% set forth in the subsidiary partnership agreement. The
appraisers noted, however, that they would recalculate Plaintiff’s interest if
the Court determines that HHC’s interest in the subsidiaries should be 45%.
 
The Court declines to rule on
this motion before trial. To rule on the valuation, the Court must weigh
evidence and make various factual findings directly related to issues at trial,
such as whether the entities are a single enterprise and whether Defendants
wrongfully diverted funds from the entities. Trial is set for November 13,
2023. This motion is CONTINUED to December 7, 2023 at 9:00am.
 
 