 Case Number:  22STCP03038    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Save Our Rural Town,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCP03038




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




County of Los
  Angeles and Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors,


 
 
 
Respondents.
 


 
 
 
 
 


 



 
Trial Date: September
29, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Petition for Writ of
Mandate, and Declaratory and Injunctive Relief
Moving Party: Petitioner Save Our
Rural Town  
Responding Parties: Respondents County
of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
 
T/R:    PETITIONER’S PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE IS GRANTED IN PART. RESPONDENT
COUNTY IS ORDERED TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 65302(g)(5). THE
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE IS OTHERWISE DENIED. 
 
           PETITIONER’S
REQUEST FOR DECLARATORY RELIEF IS GRANTED WITH RESPECT TO GOVERNMENT CODE
SECTION 65302(g)(5). THE REQUEST FOR DECLARTORY RELIEF IS OTHERWISE DENIED.
 
           PETITIONER’S
REQUEST FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF IS DENIED.
 
PETITIONER TO NOTICE.

 
           The Court considers the Opening
Brief, Opposition Brief, and Reply Brief. 
 
I.    
STATEMENT OF FACTS
 
A.   
Project
 
On December 15, 2021,
the Los Angeles County Regional Planning Commission conducted a public hearing
to update the Safety Plan Element of its General Plan. (AR 4208.) On July 12,
2022, Respondents County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors (collectively, “Respondents” or “County”) adopted amendments to the
General Plan (the “Project”) and certified a negative declaration pursuant to
the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”). (AR 18-20.) 
 
The Project includes new
and revised goals and policies in the Safety Element to address climate
adaptation. The Project incorporated the “OurCounty Sustainability Plan” into
the General Plan, which is an “ongoing” plan that includes programs such as an
urban forest management plan, a heat island reduction plan, and a resilient
integrated water system. (AR 73.) The Project also included the adoption of
Policy S 4.1 which imposes limitations on new subdivisions in Very High Fire
Hazard Severity Zones (“VHFHSZs”). (AR 12.) The Safety Element includes a table
to comply with Senate Bill 99, which requires identification of residential
developments in hazard areas with limited evacuation routes. (AR 8-9.)  
 
The County prepared
an initial study to evaluate the environmental impacts of the Project. (AR
114-197.) The County concluded that the Project would not have a significant
effect on the environment and that a negative declaration should be prepared.
(AR 124.) On December 15, 2021, the Regional Planning Commission conducted a
public hearing on the Project and voted 5-0 to recommend approval to the Board
of Supervisors. (AR 4208.) The Board held a public hearing, where it indicated
its intention to adopt the negative declaration and approve the Project. (AR 7,
11-12.) On July 12, 2022, the Board adopted the negative declaration and
approved the Project. (AR 20.) 
 
B.   
Previous CEQA Challenge
 
Petitioner previously
challenged the County’s 2019 adoption of the “OurCounty” Sustainability Plan
under CEQA. (RJN Ex. 1.) Petitioner argued that the County violated CEQA
because it failed to prepare an EIR to address the potential environmental
effects of the OurCounty Sustainability Plan. The trial court found that the
Sustainability Plan was not a project for purposes of CEQA. (RJN Ex. 1, p. 21,
25.) The Court of Appeal affirmed, also finding that the Plan was not a project
for purposes of CEQA. (Save Our Rural Town v. County of Los Angeles
(Cal. Ct. App., Jan. 26, 2022, No. B309992) 2022 WL 224163, *1.) 
 
II.    
THE PETITION AT ISSUE HERE
 
On June 9, 2023, Save
Our Rural Town (“Petitioner”) filed against Respondents a Verified Petition and
Complaint for Writ of Mandate.  The
Petition asserts four causes of action, for (1) Writ of Mandate under Code of
Civil Procedure § 1085 and Public Resources Code §§ 21168.5 and 21168.9; (2)
Writ of Administrative Mandamus under Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5 and
Public Resources Code § 21168 and 21168.9; (3) Declaratory Relief; and (4)
Injunctive Relief. 
 
Petitioner requests:
(1) issuance of a writ that: (a) commands the County to set aside and vacate
the adoption of the General Plan update and other related approvals, and
immediately cease all activities stemming from the General Plan update, (b)
commands the County to prepare and certify an EIR for the General Plan update,
and (c) retains jurisdiction over this matter until the County successfully
completes the return on the writ; (2) granting of declaratory relief that the
County violated CEQA, Government Code § 65302(g)(5), and the Map Act; and (3) issuance
of a permanent injunction prohibiting and enjoining County from taking action
to implement the General Plan update until after the County prepares and
certifies an EIR and the return on the writ is discharged. 
 
Petitioner challenges
the adoption of the negative declaration under CEQA, arguing that the County
failed to analyze the environmental impacts associated with the “OurCounty” Sustainability
Plan programs. Petitioner also argues that the adoption of Policy S 4.1, which
prohibits new residential subdivisions, serves no legitimate governmental
purpose, will cause significant environmental impacts, and violates the Map
Act. And Petitioner argues that the Safety Element fails to comply with
Government Code § 65302(g)(5) because it fails to identify residential
developments in hazard areas that do not have two emergency evacuation routes. 
 
III.    
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Petitioner’s Request
for Judicial Notice of (1) the Los Angeles Superior Court’s December 9th,
2020 order in Save Our Rural Town v. County of Los Angeles, 20STCP00419 and
(2) the Senate Rules Committee Office of Senate Floor Analysis for Senate Bill
99 from June 24, 2019 is GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code § 452 (c) and (d).
 
Respondent’s Request
for Judicial Notice of the OurCounty Sustainability Plan Annual Progress Report
and Annual Priorities Report dated October 31, 2022 is DENIED. Even if this
report could be considered judicially noticeable as an official act of the
County, it is not relevant to this Court’s determination because it was not
included in the certified administrative record and post-dates the Board’s
approval of the Project. (See Richardson v. City and County of San Francisco
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 671, 702 [“As a general rule, a hearing on a writ of
administrative mandamus is conducted solely on the record of the proceeding
before the administrative agency.”]; Evid. Code § 210.) 
 
IV.    
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
A party may seek to
set aside an agency decision by petitioning for a writ of administrative
mandamus (CCP § 1094.5) or traditional mandamus (CCP § 1085). 
 
A.   
Administrative Mandamus – CEQA 
 
A petition for
administrative mandamus is appropriate when the party seeks review of a
“determination, finding, or decision of a public agency, made as a result of a
proceeding in which by law a hearing is required to be given, evidence is
required to be taken and discretion in the determination of facts is vested in
a public agency, on the grounds of noncompliance with [CEQA].” (Pub. Resources
Code § 21168.)
 
In an action
challenging an agency’s decision under CEQA, the trial court reviews the
agency’s decision for a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (Pub. Resources Code §
21168.5.) “Abuse of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded
in a manner required by law or if the determination or decision is not
supported by substantial evidence.” (Ibid.; see also Vineyard Area Citizens
for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007) 40 Cal.4th
412, 435.) 
 
When an agency
decides to adopt a negative declaration instead of preparing an EIR, the Court
reviews under the “fair argument” standard. If the Court finds that there is
substantial evidence in the record that the project “may” cause one or more
significant environmental effects, the decision to rely on a negative
declaration must be overturned. (Guidelines § 15064(a)(1); Leonoff v.
Monterey County Board of Supervisors (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1337, 1348.) “May”
means “a reasonable possibility.” (Sundstrom v. County of Mendocino (1988)
202 Cal.App.3d 296, 309.) 
 
A petitioner
challenging a negative declaration bears the burden “to demonstrate by citation
to the record the existence of substantial evidence supporting a fair argument
of significant environmental impact.” (Gentry v. City of Murrieta (1995)
36 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1375.) “Substantial evidence” includes “facts, reasonable
assumptions predicated upon facts, and expert opinion supported by facts;”
substantial evidence does not include “argument, speculation, unsubstantiated
opinion or narrative, [or] evidence that is clearly inaccurate or erroneous.”
(Pub. Resources Code, §§ 21080(e), 21082.2(c); CEQA Guidelines § 15384.) 
 
Whenever there is
substantial evidence supporting a fair argument that a proposed project may
have a significant effect on the environment, an EIR is normally required. (Citizens
for Responsible and Open Government v. City of Grand Terrace (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1323, 1331.) The "fair argument" standard is a low
threshold test. It is a question of law, not fact, whether a fair argument
exists, and the courts owe no deference to the lead agency's determination. (Ibid.)
Review is de novo with a preference for resolving doubts in favor of
environmental review. (Pocket Protectors v. City of Sacramento (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 903, 928.) If substantial evidence exists supporting a fair
argument that an EIR is required, the court must set aside the agency's
decision as an abuse of discretion for failing to proceed in a manner required
by law. (Citizens for Responsible Government, supra, 160 Cal.App.4th at
1332.)
 
B.   
Traditional Mandamus 
 
“[W]here an agency is
exercising a quasi-legislative function, judicial review must proceed under
ordinary or traditional mandamus.” (Langsam¿v. City of Sausalito¿(1987)
190 Cal.App.3d 871, 879.)¿ “Generally speaking, a¿legislative action is the
formulation of a rule to be applied to all future cases, while an adjudicatory
act involves the actual application of such a rule to a specific set of
existing facts.” (Strumsky¿v. San Diego County Employees Retirement
Assn.¿(1974) 11 Cal.3d 28, 34, fn. 2.)¿ Generally, the petitioner
“bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd.  (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)¿  
 
There are
two¿essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial
duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial
right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty.¿ (California¿Ass’n¿for
Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services¿(2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 696, 704.)¿¿¿ 
 
“Normally, mandate
will not lie to control a public agency’s discretion, that is to say, force the
exercise of discretion in a particular manner.  However, it will lie to
correct abuses of discretion.  In determining whether a public agency has
abused its discretion,¿the court may not substitute its judgment for that of
the agency, and if reasonable minds may disagree as to the wisdom of the
agency’s action, its determination must be upheld.  A court must ask
whether the public agency’s action was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely
lacking in evidentiary support, or whether the agency failed to follow the
procedure and give the notices the law requires.”  (County of Los
Angeles v. City of Los Angeles¿(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643, 654.)¿¿¿
 
V.    
ANALYSIS
 
First, Petitioner
argues that the County violated CEQA by failing to analyze the environmental
impacts associated with the OurCounty Sustainability Plan programs. Second,
Petitioner contends that the adoption of Policy S 4.1, which limits new
residential subdivisions in VHFHSZ’s, serves no legitimate government purpose,
violates CEQA by failing to identify significant environmental impacts, and is
preempted by state law. Third, Petitioner claims that the County failed to
comply with Government Code § 65302(g)(5) by failing to identify residential
developments in hazard areas that do not have two emergency evacuation routes. 
 
A.   
OurCounty Sustainability Plan Programs 
 
Petitioner argues that
the County violated CEQA by failing to analyze the potential environmental
impacts caused by implementing the OurCounty Sustainability Plan programs,
particularly the resilient integrated water system program and the heat island
reduction program (“OurCounty programs”). Petitioner says that these programs
have the potential to cause significant environmental impacts. In response, the
County argues that its designation of the Sustainability Plan as a General Plan
implementation program is not equivalent to approval of any specific program or
action and need not be analyzed under CEQA. The County also contends there is
no evidence in the record supporting a fair argument that the implementation of
these programs will have a significant environmental impact. 
 
“Before granting any
approval of a project subject to CEQA, every lead agency or responsible agency
shall consider a final EIR or negative declaration.” (Guidelines § 15004(a).) A
project is “the whole of an action, which has a potential for resulting in
either a direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable
indirect physical change in the environment.” (Guidelines § 15378(a).) “A
direct physical change in the environment is a physical change in the
environment which is caused by and immediately related to the project,” such as
“the dust, noise, and traffic of heavy equipment that would result from
construction of a sewage treatment plant and possible odors from operation of
the plant.” (Guidelines, § 15064(d)(1).) “An indirect physical change in the
environment is a physical change in the environment which is not immediately
related to the project, but which is caused indirectly by the project,” such
as, in the sewage treatment plant example, an increase in air pollution caused
by increased population itself attributable to increased sewage treatment
capacity. (Guidelines § 15064(d)(2).) Indirect physical changes are not
reasonably foreseeable if they are speculative or unlikely to occur. (Guidelines §
15064, subd. (d)(3).)
 
Where an agency's
approval of a project is “an essential step leading to potential environmental
impacts,” the activity may be a project subject to environmental review. (Muzzy
Ranch Co. v. Solano County Airport Land Use Commission (2007) 41 Cal.4th
372, 383.) The determination of whether something is a project subject to CEQA is
made without considering whether the potential effects will actually occur. (Id.
at 381.) 
 
General plans are
projects subject to CEQA. (Guidelines § 15378(a)(1).) Government Code § 65400
requires each county to develop and adopt a general plan and make
recommendations regarding “reasonable and practical means for implementing the
general plan.” (Gov. Code § 65400(a)(1).) General plans “embody fundamental
land use decisions that guide the future growth and development of cities and
counties,” and zoning ordinances and subdivisions are required to be consistent
with general plans. (City of Santa Ana v. City of Garden Grove (1979)
100 Cal.App.3d 521, 532; Gov. Code §§ 66473.5, 65860.) Thus, the legislature
has found that general plans do have an ultimate effect upon physical changes
in the environment. (City of Santa Ana, supra, 100 Cal.App.3d at
531.) 
 
The Project here is
an update to the Safety Element of the General Plan that includes the addition
of nine “general plan implementation programs.” (AR 71-74.) One program is the
“continued implementation of the OurCounty Sustainability Plan.” (AR 9, 73.) In
Petitioner’s previous case, the Court of Appeal concluded that OurCounty is not
“akin to a binding, modern “general plan” that governs fundamental land use
decisions.” (See Save Our Rural Town v. County of Los Angeles (Cal. Ct.
App., Jan. 26, 2022, No. B309992) 2022 WL 224163, *6.) By adopting OurCounty as
a General Plan implementation program, it became a “project” subject to CEQA
review. (Guidelines § 15378(a)(1).) 
 
But the fact that the
OurCounty Sustainability Plan was adopted as part of the General Plan does not
mandate that its effects be considered in an EIR or MND. Not all future action
related to a proposed project is required to be analyzed under CEQA. (See Laurel
Heights Improvement Assn. (Laurel Heights I) v. Regents of the University of
California (1988) 47 Cal.3d 376, 395.) An environmental analysis “should be
prepared as early as feasible in the planning process to enable environmental
considerations to influence project program and design and yet late enough to
provide meaningful information for environmental assessment.” (Guidelines §
15004(b).) Environmental review of a project is "premature if the agency
action in question occurs too early in the planning process to allow meaningful
analysis of potential impacts." (Friends of the Sierra Railroad v.
Tuolumne Park and Recreation District (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 643, 654-55.) CEQA
does not “require discussion… of specific future action that is merely
contemplated or a gleam in a planner’s eye.” (Laurel Heights I, supra, 47
Cal.3d 376, 398.) An EIR or a negative declaration must include an analysis of
the environmental effects of future action if: (1) it is a reasonably
foreseeable consequence of the initial project; and (2) the future expansion or
action will be significant in that it will change the scope or nature of the
initial project or its environmental effects. (Id. at 396.)
 
In Laurel Heights
I, the court found that the future expansion of a project was reasonably
foreseeable because the draft EIR explained that UCSF would occupy the whole
facility at issue and estimated the number of faculty, staff, and students that
would occupy the facility. (Laurel Heights I, supra, 47 Cal.3d at
396.) The court concluded it was not unclear whether a parcel of land would be
developed or activity would commence. (Ibid.) Evidence in the record
showed that the University had made decisions or formulated reasonably definite
proposals as to future uses of the building. (Id. at 397.) 
 
In contrast, in Aptos
Council v. County of Santa Cruz (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 266, a petitioner
challenged the adoption of ordinances that extended minor exceptions to zoning
site standards and altered certain height, density, and parking requirements
for hotels, arguing that the negative declaration was inadequate because it
failed to take into consideration the impacts from future developments that would
now be permitted. (Id. at 272, 289.) The court noted that when
evaluating the potential environmental impact of a project that has growth
inducing effects, an agency is not excused from environmental review simply because it
is unclear what future developments may take place. (Id. at 292-293.)
However, the court found that, although there was some evidence to support the
argument that the county adopted the ordinance to possibly stimulate the
development of hotels, there was nothing in the record to demonstrate that
increased development is reasonably foreseeable, rather than “an optimistic
gleam in the [the County’s] eye.” (Id. at 294.) The court also found
there was no substantial evidence supporting a fair argument that the ordinance
would have a significant impact, aside from “vague arguments that the ordinance
will encourage development of higher density hotels.” (Id. at 295.)
 
Similarly, in Pala
Band of Mission Indians v. County of San Diego (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 556,
559, the court upheld a county’s reliance on a negative declaration for
approval of an integrated waste management plan that identified sites for
potential landfill development. Opponents of the waste management plan claimed
an EIR was needed to analyze the impacts of the potential landfill sites, but
the court found nothing in the record to suggest the potential landfill sites
would be developed and determined preparation of an EIR to analyze impacts of
development at those potential sites would be premature and wholly speculative.
(Id. at p. 575.) The court noted that the county did not impermissibly
approve a project which envisions future action without future environmental
review. (Id. at 577 (citing Rio Vista Farm Bureau Center v. County of
Solano (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 351, 373.) The siting element at issue
specifically stated that the inclusion of a proposed facility does not
substitute for any required environmental review. (Id. at 578.) 
 
Berkeley Keep Jets
Over the Bay Comm. v. Board of Port Cmrs. (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 1344 (Berkeley Keep Jets) also is instructive. There,
opponents of an airport development plan claimed the EIR prepared for the plan
should have considered the impacts of future airport projects, such as
extension of an existing runway. (Id. at 1352-1353.) Even though the EIR
identified these future projects, the record was “silent with regard to any
meaningful planning, decisionmaking, or any other activity by the Port moving
forward with implementation of such long-range plans.” (Id. at 1361.)
The court found that the EIR’s references to future projects were “simply
statements that at some undefined point in the future, the Port might try to
undertake these projects.” (Ibid.) The court rejected petitioner’s
challenge, concluding, “[T]he mere fact that a lead agency acknowledges that it
contemplates such a long-range goal is not, by itself, sufficient to conclude
that it is a ‘reasonably foreseeable consequence of the initial project.’” (Id.
at p. 1362, quoting Laurel Heights I, supra, 47 Cal.3d at 396.) 
 
Courts have found
that the record must show that potential impacts of future actions are
reasonably foreseeable and contemplated by the project to require CEQA analysis.
(See City of Redlands v. County of San Bernardino (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
398, 409 [the record indicated the existence of potential future development
and at least one project already undergoing environmental review]; City of
Antioch v. City Council (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1325, 1337 [the creation of a
sewage line was a catalyst for future development, the future development was
foreseeable and the sewage line was expressly created to facilitate future
development in the area]; Stanislaus Audubon Society v. County of Stanislaus
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 144, 154 [the planning department had already determined
in a prior initial study that the development of a country club would have a
growth-inducing effect]; City of Carmel v. Board of Supervisors (1986)
183 Cal.App.3d 229, 244 [a rezoning of a resort hotel by the city represented a
commitment to expanded use of the property and there was evidence in the record
that the changes might increase noise pollution, traffic, and population
density, in addition to permitting uses that did not presently exist].)
 
           In Petitioner’s earlier case, the
Court of Appeal found that the OurCounty Sustainability Plan was not a project.
It stated: 
 
Here,
although it is reasonably foreseeable that the goals, strategies, and actions
enumerated in OurCounty may in the long run have some impact on the
environment, the plan is at this stage merely nascent and its eventual effects
highly speculative. For instance, using the action exemplar above, “a
comprehensive heat mitigation strategy and implementation plan that addresses
cool pavements and roofs, pavement reduction, and urban greening” may take any number of forms and call for numerous activities in
different areas of the county, each of which would potentially have a multitude
of direct and indirect environmental effects. Without knowing more about
the ultimate form heat mitigation and pavement reduction may take, any
environmental assessment of this action would be premature. None of the
numerous OurCounty strategies and actions SORT highlights is any more definite.”
(Save
Our Rural Town v. County of Los Angeles (Cal. Ct. App., Jan. 26, 2022, No.
B309992) 2022 WL 224163, *6.)
 
This Court has found
nothing in the record that suggests that the effects of the OurCounty programs are
any more definite than they were at the time of the Court of Appeal’s decision.
The record does not show how, where, or when the implementation of the
OurCounty programs will occur. Petitioner argues that there are committees
working on the OurCounty programs, but Petitioner’s citations to the record do
not show any sufficiently definite implementation proposals. (See AR 2558 [memo
stating that “the Urban Heat Island Mitigation Committee will work to secure
recourses for incorporating the draft Urban Heat Island Reduction Plan into a
comprehensive strategy that implements the program”]; 3907-3908 [discussing
refining performance measures in a draft plan and the creation of a future
implementation plan “contingent on funding”]; 3910, 3832 [progress reports
discussing the future development of a local water supply plan, stating it
anticipates releasing a “draft Water Plan for public comment”]; 2517-2531
[powerpoint showing Water Plan development process]; 15512 [progress report
stating that the Department of Public Health will work to finalize a heat
island mitigation strategy and develop an implementation plan”]; 3769-3777
[draft Water Plan discussing preliminary strategies and actions]. These
documents show merely preliminary discussions for the future development of
implementation plans. Likewise, Petitioner’s comments in the record about the
implementation of these programs are speculative and do not show any County
commitment to any definite action. (See AR 3471, 1484, 5141.) 
 
Petitioner cites to the
goals of the OurCounty programs. (See AR1710-1712 [increasing the amount of
locally sourced water using actions such as cleaning up contaminated aquifers
and increasing accessibility to alternative water sources]; AR 1702 [conversion
of heat-trapping surfaces to cool or green surfaces by developing an
implementation plan that creates cool pavements and roofs and builds shade
structures].) But how the County plans to reach these goals is unclear from the
record and could take “any number of forms and call for numerous activities in
different areas of the county, each of which would potentially have a multitude
of direct and indirect environmental effects.” (See Save Our Rural Town v.
County of Los Angeles (Cal. Ct. App., Jan. 26, 2022, No. B309992) 2022 WL
224163, *6.) And planning staff advised Petitioner that the heat island
reduction program plan was “not yet underway and information is not available
to assess.” (AR 13277.) Staff explained that certain programs under the
Sustainability Plan “have moved forward and included their own CEQA analysis as
needed… Implementation Programs will continue to undergo a separate
environmental analysis at the time the implementation project is initiated.”
(AR 13277.)
 
The Court finds that
the implementation of the OurCounty programs is still a future action that is
too early in the planning process to allow meaningful analysis of any potential
impacts. Unlike Laurel Heights I, the County here has not made decisions
or formulated reasonably definite proposals relating to the OurCounty programs.
Though the General Plan has identified these future projects, the record is
“silent with regard to any meaningful planning, decisionmaking, or any other
activity” showing that the County is moving forward with implementation of
these OurCounty programs. (See Berkeley Keep Jets, supra, 91 Cal.App.4th
at 1361.) Any environmental review would be premature and wholly speculative. 
 
           Nor is there substantial evidence in
the record supporting a fair argument that the OurCounty programs would have a
significant impact, aside from vague arguments by Petitioner that the County
would have to create extensive new facilities and infrastructure to recycle and
treat water, which would alter stormwater flow patterns and groundwater levels (AR
1484, 1504), and resurfacing miles of roadways would increase pollution,
traffic congestion, and construction waste. (AR 5141.) These speculative
comments are not substantial evidence under Guidelines § 15384. Because
Petitioner fails to identify any substantial evidence supporting a fair
argument that the Project may have a significant environmental impact, CEQA
does not require consideration of the environmental impacts of the
Sustainability Programs, and the County’s negative declaration is proper. 
 
B.   
Policy S 4.1
 
Petitioner argues
that the General Plan’s adoption of Policy S 4.1 is unlawful. First, Petitioner
claims that Policy S 4.1 serves no legitimate government purpose and is
arbitrary and unreasonable. Second, Petitioner contends that Policy S 4.1 will
cause significant environmental impacts and requires an EIR under CEQA. Third,
Petitioner argues that Policy S 4.1 is preempted by Government Code §
65302(g)(3) and the Map Act. 
 
The Safety Plan
Update included Policy S 4.1 which states:
 
“[p]rohibit new subdivisions in VHFHSZs unless: (1) the new
subdivision is generally surrounded by existing or entitled development or is
located in an existing approved specific plan or is within the boundaries of a
communities facility district adopted by the County prior to January 1, 2022,
including any improvement areas and future annexation areas identified in the
County resolution approving such district; (2) the County determines there is
sufficient secondary egress; and (3) the County determines the adjoining major
highways and street networks are sufficient for evacuation as well as safe
access for emergency responders under a range of emergency scenarios, as
determined by the County. Discourage new subdivisions in all other FHSZs.” (AR
12.) 
 
1.    
No legitimate government purpose
 
Petitioner claims
there is no legitimate purpose advanced by Policy S 4.1 and it represents an
arbitrary and unreasonable prohibition on land development. 
 
Adoption of Policy S
4.1 is a legislative act reviewable under section 1085 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. (See Gov. Code § 65301.5.) “Judicial review of agency actions that
are quasi-legislative in character is under a more deferential, arbitrary and
capricious standard.” (Citizens for East Shore Parks v. State Lands Com.
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 549, 572.)  Under this standard, “judicial review
is limited to an examination of the proceedings ... to determine whether [the
agency's] action has been arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking in
evidentiary support, or whether [the agency] has failed to follow the procedure
and give the notices required by law.” (Major v. Memorial Hosps. Assn. (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1380, 1398.) Although the Policy at issue is not specifically a
zoning ordinance, a zoning ordinance will be upheld if it has a reasonable
relationship to the public welfare. (Associated Home Builders Inc. v. City
of Livermore (1976) 18 Cal.3d 582, 604; see Euclid v. Ambler Co.
(1926) 272 U.S. 365, 395.) 
 
The Court finds this
Policy advances a legitimate government purpose that bears a reasonable
relationship to the public welfare. The County enacted this policy to support
the General Plan’s goal to prevent or minimize “personal injury, loss of life,
and property damage due to fire hazards.” (AR 48.) The Safety Element Update
explains the dangers of increased residential development in the Wildland Urban
Interface (“WUI”) and the Very High Fire Hazard Safety Zones (“VHFHSZs”),
including increased risk of fire ignitions and spread and the decreased ability
for fire protection agencies to protect homes and residents in these areas. (AR
45-46.) 
 
The County points out
that Policy S 4.1 is consistent with the recommendations of the Community
Planning Assistance for Wildfire (“CPAW”) program, developed with staff from
the County Department of Regional Planning and Fire Departments after the 2018
Woolsey Fire to reduce wildfire risk. (AR 9620.) A CPAW Report recommends the
County “[p]rohibit the construction of new dwelling units in the VHFHSZ.”
(AR9621.) The CPAW Report also recommends that any residential developments
built in hazard zones be “clustered” to provide for more localized and
effective fire protection measures. (AR9644.) The Los Angeles County Fire
Department 2020 Strategic Plan (“LACFD Fire Plan”) observed that “large WUI
areas within Los Angeles County are where native fuels and residential
communities come together and provide a dangerous wildfire environment. (AR
6727.) Fire ecology experts agree that “[w]hen houses are built close to
forests or other types of natural vegetation…there will be more wildfires due
to human ignitions” and “wildfires that occur will pose a greater risk to lives
and homes, they will be hard to fight, and letting natural fires burn becomes
impossible.” (AR 7410.) 
 
Limiting subdivisions
in hazard zones also is consistent with the State Office Office of Planning and
Research’s (“OPR”) “Fire Hazard Planning, General Plan Technical Advice” (“2015
Technical Advice”) and the 2020 Draft Update. The 2015 Technical Advice
recommends “[a]voiding or minimizing the wildfire hazards associated with the
new uses of land,” and recommends that local governments should “[a]void, where
feasible, approving new development in areas subject to wildfire risk.” (AR
5431, 5439.) A 2020 update to the Technical Advice observes, “[p]olicies
governing land use and future growth also provide an opportunity to integrate
resilience into long range plans by avoiding placing new development or new
growth…in areas with extreme threat or elevated hazard severity that pose an
unreasonable risk, or introducing new zoning or building code requirements that
help to avoid or minimize risks in such areas.” (AR 5575.) 
 
This evidence shows a
legitimate government and public welfare interest in reducing fire risk. The
Policy bears a reasonable relationship to this interest by preventing new
subdivision development in less developed high-risk areas that do not have
proper infrastructure for evacuations. Although Petitioner points to other,
purportedly less extreme recommendations, such as retrofitting strategies for
subdivisions that have limited points of ingress/egress, and imposing
conditions on new subdivisions such as mandating separation buffers and fire
protection measures, (AR 7453, 5606), Petitioner cites to no authority
mandating that the County implement these measures instead. 
 
Petitioner argues
that clustering residences can increase wildfire risks, citing to its comments
submitted to the County that show photographs and maps of previous wildfire
damage that occurred in developed areas. (AR 1491-1494.) This evidence shows
that wildfire damage can be severe in developed areas, but it does not show
that a policy limiting subdivision development in high-risk areas is arbitrary
or unreasonable. 
 
Petitioner’s case citations
do not advance Petitioner’s cause. People ex rel. Younger and Sail’er
Inn involved total prohibitions on constitutionally protected matters. (People
ex rel. Younger v. County of El Dorado (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 403 [a total
prohibition of access to a naviagable stream was not a permissible special-use
designation, nor a reasonable sanitation and pollution control measure]; Sail’er
Inn, Inc. v. Kirby (1971) 5 Cal.3d 1, 20 [no compelling reason to ban women
bartenders, a ban which also violated the California Constitution, Civil Rights
Act, and Equal Protection].) Dolan and Nollan involved government
“takings,” where the government imposed conditions on permits. (Dolan v.
City of Tigard (1994) 512 U.S. 374, 394 [no reasonable relationship between
the floodplain easement and proposed new building]; Nollan v. California
Coastal Commission (1987) 483 U.S. 825, 837 [a lateral public easement
along petitioner’s beachfront property in exchange for a permit did not promote
the state interest of promoting views of the ocean].) 
 
Policy S 4.1 does not
impose a total prohibition on the development of subdivisions, but rather
imposes certain specific limitations on building residential subdivisions in
very high fire risk areas. Petitioner cites to no constitutionally protected
right to build new residential subdivisions. And as discussed, the limitations
are reasonably related to protecting the public welfare from wildfire danger. Nor
does Policy S 4.1 involve a government taking; the Policy does not impose
conditions or eliminate existing or proposed subdivisions.  
 
The Court does not
find that Policy S 4.1 is arbitrary or capricious. 
 
2.    
Significant environmental impacts 
 
Petitioner argues
that the negative declaration omits any discussion of Policy S 4.1 because it
assumed that prohibiting subdivisions would prevent only significant impacts.
Petitioner says that Policy S 4.1 will have significant impacts because it will
cause growth to be displaced to other areas and will increase fire risk in
those areas. 
 
A petitioner
challenging a negative declaration bears the burden “to demonstrate by citation
to the record the existence of substantial evidence supporting a fair argument
of significant environmental impact.” (Gentry, supra, 36
Cal.App.4th 1359, 1375.) 
 
The initial study
found that Policy S 4.1 would not have a significant environmental impact. (AR
222.) Petitioner argues that the subdivision ban will cause growth that would
normally have proceeded in rural communities to be displaced to other areas. Petitioner
cites to its comments submitted to the draft Safety Element Update and its
Motion for Writ and Injunction in the previous CEQA case, where it argued that
development will be displaced to other areas of the county, particularly
southern regions which already are heavily urbanized. (AR 1483, 1953.) Petitioner
contends this will increase the number of persons exposed to seismic activity
and will impact emergency services. (AR 1953-1954.) Petitioner also contends this
will alter patterns of urban development and have an impact on energy use and
greenhouse gas emissions. (AR 1954.) Petitioner further argues that Policy S
4.1 will lead to community stagnation, closing of schools, and deterioration of
homes and businesses. (AR 2070.) And Petitioner’s comments express concern that
more densely populated areas will increase fire risk because closer spacing can
lead to structure-to-structure ignition. (AR 1491-1494.)
 
Impacts associated
with displacement and growth inducement are required to be analyzed under CEQA.
(Napa Citizens for Honest Government v. Napa County Board of Supervisors (2001)
91 Cal.App.4th 342, 367-368.) In Napa Citizens, the project at issue was
an updated specific plan to develop a 2,945-acre area surrounding the county
airport to accommodate industrial development. (Id. at 352.) The county
argued that, because there was no provision for housing units within the
specific plan area, the proposed development would have no direct impact on
housing and thus no significant effect on the environment. (Id. at 367.)
The court found that the EIR “must discuss growth-inducing impacts even though
those impacts are not themselves a part of the project under consideration, and
even though the growth is difficult to calculate.” (Id. at 368.) The
court found that the EIR should identify the number and types of housing units
that persons working within the Project area can be anticipated to require and
consider whether the identified communities have sufficient housing and
services to accommodate the anticipated increase in population. (Id. at
370.) 
 
Likewise in City
of Antioch v. City Council (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1325, 1337-1338, the court
found that a project required an EIR even though the project itself only
involved the construction of a road and sewer project which did not in and of
themselves have a significant effect on the environment. The court recognized
that the sole reason for the construction was to provide a catalyst for further
development in the immediate area. (Ibid.) The court held that because
achievement of the project’s purpose would almost certainly have significant
environmental impacts, the impacts were required to be analyzed under CEQA. (Ibid.)

 
This case is different
from Napa Citizens and City of Antioch because Policy S 4.1 does
not itself cause growth or displacement. Unlike Napa Citizens, Policy S
4.1 is not a project that brings people into the area to work, causing an
anticipated increase in population that needs housing. Unlike City of
Antioch, Policy S 4.1 was not created for the purpose of catalyzing further
development in the surrounding area. Policy S 4.1 discourages development in
these high fire hazard areas, applies only to new subdivisions, and does
not propose to displace approved or existing residential communities. (AR 12.) Although
Policy S 4.1 may cause new subdivisions to be built outside of the very high
fire risk areas instead of within these high-risk areas, the Project does not
propose or indirectly encourage approval of additional development. (AR 129.) Additional
development in other areas of the county would be speculative and not a
reasonably foreseeable result of the project. (Guidelines § 15064, subd.
(d)(3).)
 
Moreover, Petitioner
relies only on Petitioner’s own comments. Petitioner cites to no additional
evidence in the record showing a factual basis for these alleged environmental
effects. “[I]n the absence of a specific factual foundation in the record, dire
predictions by nonexperts regarding the consequences of a project do not
constitute substantial evidence.” (Gentry, supra, 36
Cal.App.4th 1359, 1417.) “An absence of evidence in the record on a particular
issue does not automatically invalidate a negative declaration.” (Id. at
1379.)
 
There is no
substantial evidence to support a fair argument that Policy S 4.1 will have
significant environmental impacts. 
 
3.    
Preemption – Government Code § 65302(g) and Map Act
 
Petitioner argues
that Policy S 4.1 is preempted by Government Code § 65302(g) and the Map Act. 
 
The party claiming
that general state law preempts a local ordinance has the burden of
demonstrating preemption.” (Big Creek Lumber Co. v. County of Santa Cruz
(2006) 38 Cal.4th 1139, 1149.) Preemption may be established where a local
ordinance duplicates, contradicts, or enters an area fully occupied by general
law, either expressly or by legislative implication. (Morehart v. County of
Santa Barbara (1994) 7 Cal.4th 725, 751-752.) However, “when local
government regulates in an area over which it traditionally has exercised
control, such as the location of particular land uses, California courts will
presume, absent a clear indication of preemptive intent from the Legislature,
that such regulation is not preempted by state statute.” (Big Creek, supra,
38 Cal.4th at p. 1149.) 
 
Government Code §
65302(g)(3) requires that safety element policies established for very high
fire hazard areas be reviewed and updated to consider advice issued by the OPR’s
most recent publication of “Fire Hazard Planning, General Plan Technical Advice
Series.” Section 65302(g)(3)(A) requires that policies include information
regarding fire hazards, including information about wildfire hazard areas that
may be available from the United States Geological Survey (“USGS”).
 
Petitioner claims
that Policy S 4.1 is not consistent with either OPR publication because neither
recommends subdivision prohibitions. But there is no requirement in Government
Code § 65302(g) that the Safety Element be entirely consistent with OPR’s
recommendations; it requires only that the County consider the guidance. The
record demonstrates that the County considered OPR’s guidance. (AR 8677,
14652.) The record also shows that staff reviewed the State Fire Marshal’s fire
hazard severity zone maps and information about wildfire hazard areas from the
United States Geological Survey. (AR 14650, 14673, 9.)  And as discussed above there is evidence that
Policy S 4.1 is consistent with OPR advice. (AR 5439, 5571, 7451 [recommending
avoiding land use in high fire risk areas].) 
 
The Court does not
find that the Policy S 4.1 is preempted by Government Code § 65302(g)(3). 
 
Petitioner next
argues that Policy S 4.1 is preempted by the Map Act. The Map Act states: 
 
“[A] legislative body of a city or county shall deny
approval of a tentative map, or a parcel map for which a tentative map was not
required, if it makes any of the following findings”: (1) the proposed map or
subdivision is not consistent with applicable general and specific plans, (2)
the site is not physically suitable for the type of development; (3) the site
is not physically suitable for the proposed density of development; (4) the
design of the subdivision or improvements are likely to cause substantial
environmental damage or substantially injure fish or wildlife or their habitat
or cause serious public health problems; or (5) the design of the subdivision
or the type of improvements conflict with public easements.” (Gov. Code, §
66474.)
 
Local ordinances
regulating subdivisions generally are not preempted unless in direct conflict
with the Map Act. (Griffin Dev. Co v. City of Oxnard (1985) 39 Cal.3d
256, 262 [Map Act did not preempt condominium conversion ordinance and the Map
Act did not itself evince a legislative intent to occupy the entire field of
condominium conversion regulation]; McMullan v. Santa Monica Rent Control
Bd. (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 960, 963 [Map Act “does not purport and may not
be understood to be preemptive of all land use regulation”].)
 
Petitioner contends
that the Map Act does not authorize the County to impose additional
requirements on where a subdivision can be built, and Policy S 4.1
impermissibly expands the physical circumstances under which a proposed
subdivision map can be denied.
 
The Map Act enumerates
circumstances under which a county must deny approval of a tentative map. It
does not expressly state that these are the only circumstances under which a
tentative subdivision map can be denied. (See Gov. Code § 66474.) Nor does
Petitioner point to any authority showing that courts have interpreted the
statute as such. And there is no indication that the Legislature intended the
Map Act to preempt local regulation of subdivisions. In fact, the Map Act
expressly vests regulation of the design and improvement of subdivisions in
local agencies. (Gov. Code § 66411.) 
 
The cases which
Petitioner cites to are not relevant because those cases dealt with the
County’s limited powers regarding the conditions a county can impose on a
subdivider in exchange for subdivision privileges. (See Ayers v. City
Council of City of Los Angeles (1949) 34 Cal.2d 31; Associated Home
Builders Inc. v. City of Walnut Creek (1971) 4 Cal.3d 633.) Policy S 4.1
does not involve conditions imposed on subdividers.  
 
Petitioner has not
met its burden of showing that Policy S 4.1 is preempted by state law. 
 
C.   
Senate Bill 99 – Government Code §
65302(g)(5)
 
Petitioner argues
that the updated Safety Element fails to identify residential developments in
hazard areas that do not have two emergency evacuation routes and thus fails to
comply with Government Code § 65302(g)(5). Senate Bill 99, codified as
Government Code section 65302(g)(5), requires local agencies to update their
Safety Element to "identify residential developments in any hazard area
identified in the safety element that do not have at least two emergency
evacuation routes." 
 
Petitioner does not
clearly state what standard of review applies to this argument; Petitioner
appears to ask that this action by the County be reviewed under traditional
mandamus. “[W]here an agency is exercising a quasi-legislative function,
judicial review must proceed under ordinary or traditional mandamus.”  (Langsam¿v.
City of Sausalito¿(1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 871, 879.) There are two¿essential
requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial duty on the part
of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial right on the part
of the petitioner to the performance of that duty.¿ (California Ass’n for
Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 696, 704.)¿¿¿ 
 
The actions of an
agency are presumed to be valid and a regular performance of an official duty.
The burden is on Petitioner to demonstrate that the County failed to perform a
specific duty mandated by law. (See Bownds v. City of Glendale (1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 875, 883.) 
 
Petitioner argues
that the County identified only communities with residential
developments in hazard areas, rather than identifying all residential
developments that are in hazard areas and do not have two emergency
evacuation routes. In its efforts to comply with Government Code § 65302(g)(5),
the County first located residential developments based on zones that allow for
residential development. Evacuation routes were overlaid to determine if these
residential developments could access two possible evacuation routes. The
County then used the Countywide Statistical Areas (CSAs) as the unit basis for
determining whether a community contained a residential development with access
to fewer than two possible evacuation routes. If a minimum of one residential
development within the CSA had access to fewer than two possible evacuation
routes, the CSA would be identified as having limited egress. (AR 97.) The
County ultimately compiled a list of “Unincorporated Communities with
Residential Development(s) with Limited Egress” which identifies 82 separate
communities that include at least one residential development with only a
single evacuation route. (AR 56-58.) 
 
It appears from the
record that the process employed by the County properly identified specific residential
developments that had only a single point of egress. The County used this
information to compile the list of communities which contained these
residential developments. (See AR 6415-6418 [showing presentation slides titled
“identifying single-egress residential developments”]; 6421 [showing example
that Altadena community has three residential developments within the community
that only have one egress].) However, the Court cannot locate in the record
where the residential developments within these communities are specifically
identified in the Safety Element. Petitioner also cites to a page in County’s
materials which states: “We do not guarantee that we found all the residential
developments within the CSA that have limited evacuation routes, only that
there is one res[idential] dev[elopement] within the CSA.” (AR 6422.)  
 
“Our fundamental task
in interpreting a statute is to determine the Legislature's intent so as to
effectuate the law's purpose. We first examine the statutory language, giving
it a plain and commonsense meaning. We do not examine that language in isolation,
but in the context of the statutory framework as a whole in order to determine
its scope and purpose and to harmonize the various parts of the
enactment. If the language is clear, courts must generally follow its
plain meaning unless a literal interpretation would result in absurd
consequences the Legislature did not intend. If the statutory language permits
more than one reasonable interpretation, courts may consider other aids, such
as the statute's purpose, legislative history, and public policy.” (Coalition
of Concerned Communities, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 34
Cal.4th 733, 737.)  
 
Petitioner argues
that the plain language of the statute requires Respondents to identify
specific residential neighborhoods, and the intent of the statute is not met by
identifying communities in high fire areas where one or more of these
neighborhoods exist. The Court agrees. 
 
The updated Safety
Element must identify residential developments that do not have two or more emergency
evacuation routes. (Govt. Code § 65302(g)(5).) It is clear from the record that
County understood there was a distinction between specific residential
developments and the communities that contained them, as it distinguished
between residential developments and communities throughout the record. (See AR
97, 6415-6418, 6421-6422.) While the County appears to have identified specific
residential developments, the Safety Element only lists the communities that
contain at least one of the residential developments with limited egress. 
 
The purpose of SB 99
was to address inadequate evacuation routes as to existing developments,
stating “This bill dovetails with recent legislation that requires the Board to
work with local governments to identify and update a list of at-risk
subdivisions by laying the groundwork at the local level.” (Petitioner’s RJN
Ex. 2, p. 3-4.) The purpose of this legislation is to identify “subdivisions”
rather than the communities that contain these subdivisions. The identification
of all specific residential developments will assist local and state
authorities in ensuring that specific subdivisions are connected to adequate
emergency evacuation routes. (See RJN Ex. 2, p. 3-4.) 
 
The County has a duty
under Government Code § 65302(g)(5) to identify the residential developments
within the communities with fewer than two evacuation routes. The County failed
to do so by identifying only the communities that contained residential
developments with fewer than two evacuation routes. Traditional mandamus is the
proper vehicle to compel the County to comply with the statutory requirement.  Relief is appropriate under Civil Code § 1085.
 
D.   
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief
 
Petitioner’s fourth
and fifth causes of action for declaratory and injunctive relief are derivative
of the causes of action for writ of mandate. (Petition ¶ 54-61.) For the
reasons discussed above, the Court grants declaratory relief as to Government
Code § 65302(g)(5). The Court denies declaratory relief as to Petitioner’s
other contentions. 
 
The Court denies
Petitioner’s request for injunctive relief. Petitioner has not shown that enjoining
the County from implementing the Safety Element will redress Petitioner’s
injuries incurred by the County’s violation of Government Code § 65304(g)(5). 