 Case Number:  23STCV28303    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




tiffany coffman

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
reliant real estate
   management, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV28303




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   14, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  motion to transfer venue
(2)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Reliant Real Estate
Management, Inc.      
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to Transfer Venue 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Reliant Real Estate
Management, Inc.                  
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs
Danaya Franklin, Kennisha Carey, Tysen Knight, Lauren Mangione, Kevin Moss,
Brandon Lesane, Blake Johnson, Charity Racaniello, and Alberto Ramirez
(2)  
Demurrer
to Complaint 
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
motion to transfer venue.  No opposition
papers to that motion were filed. 
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
demurrer.  
The court did not consider the opposition to the demurrer filed by plaintiffs Danaya Franklin, Kennisha Carey,
Tysen Knight, Lauren Mangione, Kevin Moss, Brandon Lesane, Blake Johnson,
Charity Racaniello, and Alberto Ramirez on June 7, 2024, because that
opposition was not filed at least nine court days before the hearing on this demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
The court exercised its
discretion to consider the reply papers filed on June 10, 2024, because, even
though they were not filed at least five court days before the hearing on this
demurrer, defendant Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc. could not have filed
its reply papers within that timeframe since the opposition papers were not
timely filed.  
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc.’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).)  
MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE
Defendant Reliant Real Estate
Management, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order transferring this
action, filed by plaintiffs Danaya Franklin, Kennisha Carey, Tysen Knight,
Lauren Mangione, Kevin Moss, Brandon Lesane, Blake Johnson, Charity Racaniello,
and Alberto Ramirez (“Plaintiffs”),[1] to the Orange County
Superior Court.
“The court may, on motion,
change the place of trial in the following cases: [¶] (a) When the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 397, subd. (a).)  “A corporation or association may be sued in
the county where the contract is made or is to be performed, or where the
obligation or liability arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where
the principal place of business of such corporation is situated, subject to the
power of the court to change the place of trial as in other cases.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.)  “Thus, under the legislative scheme, venue
may be proper in more than one county, depending on the particular facts of a
case.”  (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 313.)  “There is a presumption that the county in
which the plaintiff chose to file the action is the proper county.  [Citations.] 
The burden rests on the party seeking a change of venue to defeat the
plaintiff’s presumptively correct choice of court.”  (Id. at pp. 313-314 [internal
citations omitted]; Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
830, 837 [“‘[i]t is the moving defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the
plaintiff’s venue selection is not proper under any of the statutory
grounds’”] [emphasis added].)
The court finds that Defendant
has not met its burden to show that Los Angeles County Superior Court is not
the proper venue for this action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 397, subd. (a).) 
The court recognizes that
Defendant has submitted evidence establishing that its principal place of
business is located in Orange County, not Los Angeles County.  (RJN Exs. A, B.)  Thus, Defendant has shown that Orange County
is a proper venue for this action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 395.5 [a corporation may be sued “in the county where the
principal place of business of such corporation is suited”].)  However, Defendant has not shown that Orange
County is the only county in which Plaintiffs were permitted to file this
action. 
As set forth above, “venue may
be proper in more than one county, depending on the particular facts of a
case.”  (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc.,
supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at p. 313.)  Corporations such as Defendant may be sued in
the counties in which, inter alia, their principal places of business
are situated, “or where the obligation or liability arises . . . .”  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.)  The Complaint alleges that Defendant obtained
investigative consumer reports about Plaintiffs during the processing of their
applications for apartment homes at various apartment complexes without
complying with the mandatory requirements, disclosures, and authorizations set
forth under the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (“ICRAA”), on
which each cause of action is based. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 28, 43-44, 51, 53.) 
This alleged wrongdoing occurred, at least in part, in Los Angeles
County.  
Specifically, Plaintiffs have
alleged that (1) plaintiff Tiffany Coffman was a prospective tenant and
resident at The Vues on Gordon Apartments, located at 1558 Gordon Street, Los
Angeles, California, 90028, which is located in Los Angeles County (Compl., ¶
6), (2) plaintiff Jaime Castaneda was a prospective tenant and resident at The
Palms Apartments located at 489 West 120th Street, Hawthorne, California,
90250, which is located in Los Angeles County (Compl., ¶ 7), (3) plaintiff Ariel
Sanders was a prospective tenant and resident at The Fairmount Apartments
located at 1001 East Villa Street, Pasadena, California, 91106, which is
located in Los Angeles County (Compl., ¶ 8), (4) Defendant operates The Vues on
Gordon Apartments, The Fairmount Apartments, and The Palms Apartments (Compl.,
¶ 21), and (5) Defendant requested and obtained investigative consumer reports
about Plaintiffs during the processing of their applications for apartment
homes at, inter alia, The Vues on Gordon Apartments, The Fairmount
Apartments, and The Palms Apartments, without complying with the mandatory
requirements, disclosures, and authorizations under ICRAA (Compl., ¶ 28).  Thus, Plaintiffs alleged that Defendant’s “obligation
or liability” as to those plaintiffs’ applications, in connection with each
cause of action, arose in Los Angeles County.  
(Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.)  
Moreover, while the court
acknowledges that, on March 21, 2024, those plaintiffs were dismissed pursuant
to Plaintiffs’ March 18, 2024 request for dismissal, at the time that
Defendant’s motion was made (i.e., on January 16, 2024), those plaintiffs were
parties to the Complaint and venue in Los Angeles County was therefore
proper.  (Williams v. Superior Court
for County of Contra Costa (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 101, 109 [“‘ “Venue is
determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to change
venue is made” ’”]; Armstrong Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (1981)
114 Cal.App.3d 732, 738 [“Proper venue is not made improper by a subsequent
amendment to the complaint”].) 
Further, to the extent that
Defendant contends that certain of the other Plaintiffs’ causes of action were
not properly filed in this court, Defendant did not cite authority establishing
that the court has the authority to order only certain of the plaintiffs to
file their actions against Defendant in Orange County.  For example, the court agrees that, in a
mixed action (i.e., in an action in which “a plaintiff alleges two or more
causes of action[,] each of which is governed by a different venue statute” or
“two or more defendants are named who are subject to different venue
standards”), “a motion for change of venue must be granted on the entire
complaint if the defendant is entitled to a change of venue on any one cause of
action.”  (Brown v. Superior Court (1984)
37 Cal.3d 477, 488.)  However, Defendant
has not shown that this is a mixed action within the meaning of that authority
because Defendant did not show that Plaintiffs have alleged “two or more causes
of action each of which is governed by a different venue statute” or that
Defendant is entitled to a change of venue on any one cause of action.  (Ibid.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not
shown that this is a mixed action that must be transferred to Orange County.  
The court denies Defendant’s
motion to transfer this action to “Santa Monica County Superior Court” because
(1) Santa Monica is not a county and there are no Santa Monica County superior
courts, and (2) Defendant did not file a proper motion in Department 1 in the
Central District requesting that this action be transferred to another district
(i.e., the West District or Santa Monica courthouse).  (Local Rule, rule 2.3, subd. (b)(2).) 
DEMURRER
Defendant moves the court for an order sustaining its demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for invasion of privacy.  Plaintiffs have based this cause of action on
the allegation that Defendant “invaded the Plaintiffs’ rights of privacy by
obtaining investigative consumer reports about the Plaintiffs without complying
with the mandatory requirements under” ICRAA. 
(Compl., ¶ 51.)
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for invasion of privacy because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
establishing that Defendant, in obtaining investigatory reports about
Plaintiffs (including criminal backgrounds and previous eviction backgrounds) without
complying with ICRAA (Compl., ¶¶ 28, 34, 51), committed a serious intrusion into
Plaintiffs’ private matters “in a manner highly offensive to a reasonable person[,]”
as required for both constitutional and common law invasion of privacy claims,
including because Plaintiffs completed a consent to the release of such
information (Compl., ¶¶ 27, 29-30).  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Mezger v. Bick (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th
76, 87 [“The elements of a common law invasion of privacy claim are intrusion
into a private place, conversation, or matter, in a manner highly offensive to
a reasonable person”], 88 [“‘Actionable invasions of privacy must be
sufficiently serious in their nature, scope, and actual or potential impact to
constitute an egregious breach of the social norms underlying the privacy
right’”]; Garrabrants v. Erhart (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 486, 498 [“Any
state constitutional invasion of privacy claims . . . includes three elements:
‘(1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of
privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a
serious invasion of privacy’”].)
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Reliant
Real Estate Management, Inc.’s motion to transfer venue. 
            The court sustains defendant Reliant
Real Estate Management, Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiffs Danaya Franklin, Kennisha Carey, Tysen Knight, Lauren
Mangione, Kevin Moss, Brandon Lesane, Blake Johnson, Charity Racaniello, and
Alberto Ramirez’s second cause of action for invasion of privacy. 
            The
court grants plaintiffs Danaya Franklin, Kennisha Carey, Tysen Knight, Lauren
Mangione, Kevin Moss, Brandon Lesane, Blake Johnson, Charity Racaniello, and
Alberto Ramirez 20 days leave to file a First Amended Complaint that cures the
defects with the second cause of action set forth in this ruling.
            The court orders defendant Reliant
Real Estate Management, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


