 Case Number:  23STCV11535    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Daniel
  Meza,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:

 


 
23STCV11535




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling

 




 
American
  Honda Motor Co., Inc,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing
Date: August 2, 2024
Department
54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion
to Compel PMK Deposition and Request for Sanctions
Moving
Party: Plaintiff Daniel Meza
Responding
Party: Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON
MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE IS GRANTED.        THE
DEPOSITION SHALL TAKE PLACE NO LATER THAN AUGUST 8, 2024.
 
DEFENDANT SHALL PAY $3390 IN SANCTIONS TO PLAINTIFF WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
            PLAINTIFF
TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing. 
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers and opposition.
 
BACKGROUND
            
This is a lemon law action arising out of Plaintiff Daniel Meza’s purchase of a 2022 Honda Accord manufactured and distributed by
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“AHMC”) The complaint, filed on May
5, 2022, alleges causes of action for (1) violation of the Song-Beverly
Act—breach of express warranty; and (2) fraudulent inducement—concealment. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant
AHMC’s PMK on various categories, and requests sanctions of $3,390 for
attorneys’ fees in drafting the motion. 
 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff served
Defendant with a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s PMQ, identifying
fifty-three subjects for examination and fifty-three requests for document
production. The requests are roughly separated into eight categories: (1)
reports, surveys, summaries identifying A defect with the Honda Sensing System;
(2) advertisements, marketing and communications regarding the Honda Sensing
System; (3) corrective action to address defects with Honda Sensing System; (4)
estimated costs to remove the Honda Sensing System from the US market; (5)
discovery regarding Defendant’s production, electronically stored information,
evidence presentation efforts; (6) Plaintiff’s request for repurchase or
replacement of the vehicle; (7) repairs and warranty coverage for Plaintiff’s
vehicle; and (8) Defendant’s policies and procedures regarding evaluation and
handling of consumers’ requests for repurchase and replacement of their
vehicles. All categories are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and discoverable. 
 
Defendant’s Opposition contends the
motion is unnecessary, premature, and now moot, because Defendant offered to
produce the PMK on August 8, 2024. But Defendant did not offer the August 8
date until after Plaintiff filed the motion. The Court finds that the motion
was necessary. The Court grants sanctions of $3,390.  
 
            


 