  Case Number:  22STCV37856    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



TERESITA ONG,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NISSAN NORTH AMERICA, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 22STCV37856




Hearing Date:


February 29, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE: 
 
DEFENDANT NISSAN
  NORTH AMERICA, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS
 



            
            Background
Plaintiff Teresita Ong (“Plaintiff”) filed
this lemon law action on December 5, 2022, against Defendant Nissan North
America, Inc. (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of implied warranty of
merchantability, (2) breach of express warranty, and (3) violation of
Song-Beverly Warranty Act section 1793.2. 
Defendant
now moves for an order compelling arbitration of this action and
staying the
action during the
pendency of arbitration. Plaintiff opposes. 

Request for Judicial Notice
The Court grants Defendant’s request for
judicial notice. 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel arbitration, the moving
party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the
arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the agreement. The
burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413-414).)   
Generally, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross
of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This
strong policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be
upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” ((Ibid. [internal
quotations omitted].)
This is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration
agreements under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all
agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2, et
seq.; (Higgins v.
Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
Defendant submits the declaration of its
counsel in support of the motion. Defendant’s counsel’s supporting declaration
provides, inter alia, “[a]ttached as Exhibit 1 is a true and
correct copy of the Retail Installment Sale Contract for the sale of the 2018
Nissan Kicks (VIN: 3N1CP5CUXJL538295) which is the subject of this action.”
(Salinas Decl., ¶ 2.) This “Retail Installment Sale Contract” (“Sale Contract”)
lists “Teresita C Ong” as the buyer and Ross Nissan of El Monte as the
“Seller-Creditor.” (Salinas Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)  
As an initial matter, the Sale Contract attached
as Exhibit 1 to Mr. Salinas’s declaration contains three pages. As Defendant
notes, the second page of Exhibit 1 provides, inter alia, “Agreement to
Arbitrate: By signing below, you agree that, pursuant to the Arbitration
Provision on the reverse side of this contract, you or we may elect to resolve
any dispute by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. See the
Arbitration Provision for additional information concerning the agreement to
arbitrate.” (Salinas Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)  However, the subject “Arbitration
Provision” is not provided with the Sale Contract
attached as Exhibit 1 to Mr. Salinas’s declaration.   
Rather, Defendant relies on a
purported “exemplar” contract that was not executed by the parties here to
purportedly demonstrate that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by the Arbitration Provision
in such exemplar contract. Specifically, Defendant’s counsel states in his
declaration that “[a]ttached hereto as Exhibit 2 is a
true and correct copy of what I am informed is the exemplar of a Retail Installment Sale Contract LAW Form No. 553-CA-ARB
(Rev. 7/16).”
(Salinas Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) 
As
discussed, Defendant’s motion is based on the “Arbitration Provision” contained
in such “exemplar” contract. (Salinas Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) Defendant asserts
that it can enforce the Arbitration Provision under the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, citing Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486. Defendant argues that “[l]ike the Felisildas, Plaintiff expressly agreed that ‘[a]ny claim or
dispute…between you and us…which
arises out of or relates to your…purchase or condition of this vehicle…shall…be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.’ (Sales
Contract Ex. 1 and 2 to Salinas
Decl.) Plaintiff expressly agrees to arbitrate claims arising out of the
purchase and condition of the
Vehicle, even against nonsignatories.” (Mot. at p. 15:23-27.) But this
referenced provision is contained in Defendant’s purported “exemplar” contract
that is not signed by Plaintiff. (Salinas Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2) 
The Court notes that “[t]he
party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence an agreement to
arbitrate a dispute exists. To carry
this burden of persuasion the moving party must first produce prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the
controversy.” ((Trinity v. Life Ins. Co. of
North America (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 1111, 1120 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
In light of the fact that Defendant submits the above-referenced “exemplar”
contract in support of the motion, the Court does not find that Defendant has presented adequate evidence of an agreement by the parties to
arbitrate the claims set forth in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Accordingly, the burden does not shift to
Plaintiff to prove a ground for denial.¿¿ 
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion
to compel arbitration is denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  February 29, 2024                          
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court