  Case Number:  22STCV23538    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
blue
  pine construction corp.; jay tallon; linda dorothy tallon; and
  JENNIFER TALLON-MIRANDA
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
blaise
  hilton; russel square consultinG, inc., et al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV23538 
 
  Hearing Date:  February 8, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendants’ demurrer to the second amended complaint



 
Procedural Background
            On July
21, 2022, Plaintiffs Blue Pine Construction Corp. (“Blue Pine”), Jay Tallon
(“Jay”)[1],
Linda Dorothy Tallon (“Linda”), and Jennifer Tallon-Miranda (“Jennifer”)
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the instant fraud action against Defendants Blaise
Hilton (“Hilton”) and Russell Square Consulting, Inc., (“Russel Square”)
(jointly “Defendants”).  On January 19,
2023, the Court sustained with leave to amend Defendants’ demurrer to the
complaint in part as to the first cause of action for fraud, second cause of
action for fraud, fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fifth cause
of action for conversion, sixth cause of action for civil extortion, ninth cause
of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and
eleventh cause of action for equitable indemnity. 
            On
February 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint against
Defendants.  The first amended complaint
asserted eleven causes of action for  (1)
Fraud, (2) Fraud, (3) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (5) Conversion, (6) Civil Extortion, (7)
Defamation, (8) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
(Jackson Square), (9) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage (Employees), (10) Unfair Competition (B&P § 17200), and (11)
Equitable Indemnity.  On July 6, 2023,
the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the first amended complaint without
leave to amend as to the sixth cause of action for civil extortion and ninth
cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage
and with leave to amend as to the second cause of action for fraud (false
promise), fifth cause of action for conversion, and eleventh cause of action
for equitable indemnity.  (Order 7/6/23.)
            On
August 2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
against Defendants.  The SAC asserts eight
causes of action for  (1) Fraud –
Intentional Misrepresentation, (2) Fraud – False Promise, (3) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (5) Defamation,
(6) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage (Jackson
Square), (7) Unfair Competition (B&P § 17200), and (8) Equitable Indemnity.  The first through fifth and eighth causes of
action are against only Defendant Hilton. 
The remaining claims are against both Defendants.
            On September
5, 2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer to the SAC.  On January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.  On February 1, 2024, Defendants
filed a reply.
 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaints
            The
SAC alleges that:
            In
early 2017, Hilton and Jay agreed to form Blue Pine – a construction business --together.  (SAC ¶ 10.) 
“Hilton represented that there would be a 30% profit margin.”  (SAC ¶ 10.)  “Hilton was also the majority shareholder of
Blue Pine and owned 60% of Blue Pine's stock shares at all relevant
times.”  (SAC ¶ 10.)  “Hilton failed to properly manage and operate
the business and affairs of Blue Pine, misappropriated corporate assets, stole
business and employees from Blue Pine for his own benefit, and lied about the
financial status of Blue Pine prior to leaving the corporation in order to
induce the remaining shareholders of Blue Pine to purchase his shares in the
corporation.”  (SAC ¶ 11.)  
            “Until
Hilton resigned from Blue Pine in December 2020, Hilton was in complete control
of Blue Pine's finances. Hilton was the one who priced all the jobs for Blue
Pine. Hilton managed and controlled all the expenses for Blue Pine, and oversaw
all of the personnel who performed the construction work on behalf of Blue
Pine.”  (SAC ¶ 12.)
            “Hilton
mismanaged Blue Pine's finances and caused Blue Pine to accrue significant debt
it could not afford. Hilton also concealed and/or made material
misrepresentations about the financial status of Blue Pine to [Jay] and the
other Blue Pine shareholders.”  (SAC ¶
13.)  
            The
majority of Blue Pine’s business came from Jackson Square Properties, LLC.  (SAC ¶ 14.) 
Jackson Square Properties, LLC would routinely pay Blue Pine money for jobs
not yet completed which Hilton would then take to pay other people.  (SAC ¶ 14.) 
“Hilton would also take money from one construction project and spend it
on other projects.”  (SAC ¶ 14.)
            “Hilton
represented to [Jay], and Hilton and [Jay] agreed, that Russell Square
[Hilton’s wholly owned business] would assist in Blue Pine's construction
business, in that Russell Square would handle the work necessary prior to
breaking ground on a construction project (e.g., obtaining permits, hiring architects
and contractors), and then Blue Pine would perform the construction from the
ground up as well as all maintenance, rehabilitation, and upgrade work for
Jackson Square properties.”  (SAC ¶ 15.)
            “Hilton
separated from Blue Pine in or around December 2020. At that time, Hilton
resigned from Blue Pine and sold all of his shares in the corporation to the
remaining shareholders of Blue Pine. To that end, in December 2020, Blue Pine
and Hilton entered into a Stock Repurchase and Separation Agreement (the
‘Agreement’), in which Hilton sold all of his shares of company stock to Blue
Pine in exchange for the cancellation of a $189,887.97 debt Hilton owed to Blue
Pine. ... The other stockholders of Blue Pine, including [Jay] and Jennifer,
were also parties to the Agreement.”  (SAC
¶ 16, Exh. A.)  
            “In connection with the Agreement and Hilton’s separation
from Blue Pine, Hilton orally misrepresented to [Jay] in or around November and
December 2020 in numerous phone calls with [Jay] that Blue Pine had a total
debt of approximately $1.5 million. [Jay] also had limited access to Blue
Pine’s financial records, which [Jay] believed to be accurate. Unfortunately,
Hilton purposely failed to include in those records over $500,000 in debt.
Believing the information in the accounting records to which [Jay] had access,
and the information orally received from Hilton to be correct, [Jay] relayed
that information to Blue Pine’s other shareholders. But in fact, Blue Pine’s
debts at that time totaled over $2 million, unbeknownst to [Jay] or any other
Blue Pine shareholders other than Hilton. At the time, Hilton had exclusive
knowledge of Blue Pine’s true financial state. On information and belief,
Hilton instructed Blue Pine’s accounting department to refrain from entering
over $500,000 in debts into Blue Pine’s accounting records without [Jay]’s or
Blue Pine’s other shareholders’ knowledge, in order to induce [Jay] and Blue
Pine’s other shareholders to enter into the Agreement. On information and
belief, Hilton also instructed subcontractors to withhold billings in order to
underrepresent the amount of debts owed by Blue Pine at the time of the
Agreement to induce [Jay] and Blue Pine’s other shareholders to enter into the
Agreement. Hilton then put pressure on [Jay] and Blue Pine’s other shareholders
to sign the Agreement by the end of the year. [Jay] and Blue Pine’s
shareholders relied on Hilton’s oral misrepresentation of Blue Pine’s financial
status, and on his concealment of over $500,000 in debts in Blue Pine’s
financial records, in their decision to enter into the Agreement. Blue Pine and
its shareholders believed when they signed the Agreement that the information
that they received from Hilton and from Blue Pine’s financial records (which
they now know to be falsified) was sufficient to verify the accuracy of
Hilton’s representations about Blue Pine’s financial status. Hilton concealed
the true financial status of Blue Pine in order to induce Blue Pine and its
shareholders to enter into the Agreement and did in fact induce Blue Pine and
its shareholders to enter into the Agreement.” 
(SAC ¶ 17.)

            “After
Hilton left Blue Pine, Hilton wanted to use some of Blue Pine's employees to
perform work for Jackson Square.”  (SAC ¶
18.)  “Based on his close relationship
with Jackson Square, Hilton threatened to pull all of the Jackson Square jobs
that Blue Pine had under contract if Blue Pine did not rent out Blue Pine's
employees to Hilton and Russell Square for Hilton’s and Russell Square's own
benefit.  Since Jackson Square jobs
constituted approximately 90% of Blue Pine’s business, Blue Pine had no other
choice but to agree to Hilton’s demands and allowed Hilton to use Blue Pine’s
employees to its detriment.”  (SAC ¶
18.)  “Hilton ultimately took all of
Jackson Square's business away from Blue Pine, that otherwise would have gone
to Blue Pine, as well as several Blue Pine employees, thereby resulting in the
demise of Blue Pine.”  (SAC ¶ 19.)
 
Legal Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts “give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and read it
in context.”  (Schifando v. City of
Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  
Here, Defendants
have fulfilled the meet and confer requirement. 
(Mullins Decl. ¶ 2.)  
 
Discussion 
            Defendants
contend that the second cause for fraud (false promise) and the eighth cause of
action for equitable indemnity fail.
 
Second Cause of Action – Fraud: False Promise
            Defendants contend
that the second cause of action for false promise fails to allege reasonable
reliance on Defendant Hilton’s representations. 

            “To maintain an action for deceit based on a false
promise, one must specifically allege and prove, among other things, that the
promisor did not intend to perform at the time he or she made the promise and
that it was intended to deceive or induce the promisee to do or not do a
particular thing. [Citations.] Given this requirement, an action based on a
false promise is simply a type of intentional misrepresentation, i.e.,
actual fraud.”  (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159.)  “The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  
            “Fraud allegations ‘involve a
serious attack on character’ and therefore are pleaded with specificity.  [Citation.] 
General and conclusory allegations are insufficient.  [Citation.] 
The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts which
‘‘‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.’’’  [Citation.]”  (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  Moreover,
“[e]ach element of a fraud count must be pleaded with particularity so as to
apprise the defendant of the specific grounds for the charge and enable the
court to determine whether there is any basis for the cause of action[.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 231.)
            Defendants argue
that the promissory fraud cause of action is barred as a matter of law by
virtue of the following language in the
Agreement between the parties: “[t]he parties hereto acknowledge and agree that
except as may be authorized in writing signed by Hilton and or his
affiliates (collectively, the ‘Hilton Parties’), as applicable, and the
Company, there is no set agreement or expectations between the Hilton Parties
and the Company for future business, and that while the Hilton Parties or the
Company may involve the other in future business, each may operate
freely.”  (SAC, Exh. A at ¶ 8(c).)  
The interpretation of a
contract is a judicial function.  (Wolf
v. Walt Disney Pictures & Television (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1126,
citation omitted.)  In engaging in this
function, the trial court “give[s] effect to the mutual intention of the
parties as it existed” at the time the contract was executed.  (Ibid., citing Civ. Code, §
1636.)  Ordinarily, the objective intent
of the contracting parties is a legal question determined solely by reference
to the contract’s terms.  (Ibid.,
citing Civ. Code, § 1639.)  Extrinsic
evidence is admissible to interpret an agreement when a material term is
ambiguous.  (Ibid., citations
omitted.)  However, the Court cannot
resolve any ambiguity on a demurrer.
            Here, the SAC
alleges that “on or about November or
December 2020, Hilton orally promised to [Jay] in numerous phone calls that
Russell Square would assist in Blue Pine’s construction business. Specifically,
[Hilton] promised that Russell Square would handle the work necessary prior to
breaking ground on a construction project, and then Blue Pine would perform the
construction from the ground up as well as the rehabilitation, maintenance and
upgrades to Blue Pine's existing clients, but in particular and of critical
importance, Jackson Square.”  (SAC ¶ 27.)  “Hilton knew that when he made the promise to
[Jay] regarding working with Blue Pine that this promise was false and that he
had no intention of honoring it.”  (SAC ¶
28.)  “Hilton made the promise with the
intent that [Jay], Blue Pine, and Blue Pine’s other shareholders would rely on
the promise to induce them to enter into the Agreement.”  (SAC ¶ 29.) 
“[Jay], Blue Pine, and Blue Pine's shareholders did rely on this promise
to their detriment and to the ultimate demise of Blue Pine by, among other
things, entering into the Agreement with Hilton.”  (SAC ¶ 30.) 
The SAC asserts that Jay, Blue Pine, and Blue Pine’s reliance on
Hilton’s false oral promises were reasonable “because Jackson Square was
virtually Blue Pine's only client, and the Agreement would have been illusory
if there was no promise that Hilton and Russell Square would help Blue Pine
with Jackson Square projects. It was also reasonable to rely on Hilton's
promise to continue working with Blue Pine on the projects that Hilton had been
heavily involved in on Blue Pine's behalf.” 
(SAC ¶ 30.)
            The
Court finds that these allegations are sufficient to state that Plaintiffs
relied on Hilton’s oral promise.  Moreover,
the attached Agreement is not directly contrary to this assertion.  (See Dodd v. Citizens Bank of Costa Mesa (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 1624, 1627, [“[F]acts appearing in exhibits attached to the
complaint will also be accepted as true and, if contrary to
the allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.”] [bold and italics added].)  
            The language of
the Agreement quoted above, upon which Defendants rely, does not – at least not
as a matter of law -- vitiate Plaintiff’s allegations of reliance.  First, the cited language of the Agreement is neither sufficiently clear nor
sufficiently broad to constitute an unequivocal integration and anti-reliance
clause.  The provision upon which Defendants
rely does not state that it supersedes all negotiations, agreements and
understandings among the Parties with respect to the subject matter of the
Agreement.  Nor does the Agreement purport
to constitute the entire agreement among the Parties with respect to the subjects
covered by the Agreement.  Instead, the language
is quite narrow and somewhat ambiguous: “[t]he
parties hereto acknowledge and agree that except as may be authorized in
writing signed by Hilton and or his affiliates (collectively, the ‘Hilton
Parties’), as applicable, and the Company, there is no set agreement or
expectations between the Hilton Parties and the Company for future business, and that while the Hilton Parties or the
Company may involve the other in future
business, each may operate
freely.”  (SAC, Exh. A at ¶ 8(c), [bold
and underline added].)  The Agreement
does not define the term “future business.”  Under common terminology, the term “future
business” may reasonably be understood to address future transactions -- such
as with new clients.  The Agreement is
not necessarily contradictory to the alleged promise to continue working under
a pre-existing agreement to work on the Jackson Square properties, which was
not a new or “future” business endeavor. 
(SAC ¶ 30.)  
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Eighth Cause of Action: Equitable Indemnity
            Defendants
contends that the eighth cause of action for equitable indemnity fails because there
is no alleged joint obligation, which is necessary to support a claim for
indemnity.
            “[I]ndemnity refers to ‘the obligation resting on one party
to make good a loss or damage another party has incurred.’ ” (Prince v.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1157.)  “There are two basic types of indemnity:
express indemnity, which relies on an express contract term providing for
indemnification, and equitable indemnity, which embraces ‘traditional equitable
indemnity’ and implied contractual indemnity.”  
(Jocer Enterprises, Inc. v. Price (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
559, 573.) “ ‘ “The elements of a cause of action for [equitable] indemnity
are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting
damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is ... equitably
responsible.” ’ [Citation.] ”  (C.W.
Howe Partners Inc. v. Mooradian (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 688, 700.)
            “
‘The basis for the remedy of equitable indemnity is restitution. “ ‘ “[O]ne
person is unjustly enriched at the expense of another when the other discharges
liability that it should be his responsibility to pay.” ’ ” [Citations.] [¶]
California common law recognizes a right of partial indemnity under which
liability among multiple tortfeasors may be apportioned according to the
comparative negligence of each.’ 
[Citation.] The test for indemnity is thus whether the indemnitor and
indemnitee jointly caused the plaintiff's injury.”  (AmeriGas Propane, L.P. v. Landstar
Ranger, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 981, 989, [italics added].)  
            “
‘At the heart of the doctrine [of equitable indemnity] is apportionment based
on fault. At a minimum equitable indemnity “requires a determination of fault on
the part of the alleged indemnitor....” ’ [Citations.]”  (Heritage Oaks Partners v. First American
Title Ins. Co. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 339, 348.)  Thus, “‘unless the prospective indemnitor and
indemnitee are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff there is no basis
for indemnity.’ [Citations.]”  (Ibid.)  “Thus, no indemnity
may be obtained from an entity that has no pertinent duty to the injured third
party [Citation], that is immune from liability [Citation],
or that has been found not to be responsible for the
injury [Citation.]”  (Jocer
Enterprises, Inc., supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at pp.573–574.)

            As
the Supreme Court has noted, “[i]t is not sufficient, for purposes of
indemnification, for a defendant simply to claim someone else caused all or
part of the plaintiff's damages. To state a claim for indemnification, a
defendant must allege that the same harm for which he may be held liable is
properly attributable—at least in part—to the alleged indemnitor.”  (Molko v. Holy Spirit Assn. (1988)
46 Cal.3d 1092, 1127 [superseded by statute on other grounds as noted in Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854 Fn. 19.].)  “If a defendant believes the plaintiff's
injuries were the result of a different harm altogether, he may argue the
point to the jury and escape liability if successful. Absent some claim of
mutual liability for the same harm, however—under joint-and-several or
vicarious liability principles, for example—an indemnification action will not
lie.”  (Ibid.)  
            Here,
the SAC alleges that “Hilton's actions proximately caused the damages, if any,
alleged against Blue Pine in several lawsuits : (i) The Sherwin-Williams
Company v. Blue Pine Construction Corp, et al. (Sacramento County Superior
Court Case No. 34-2021-00306439), (ii) Villara Corporation v. MB Mission
Villas et al. (San Joaquin County Superior Court Case No. STK-CV-LBC-2021-
11525), (iii) Prairie Electric, Inc. v. Blue Pine Construction Corp et al.
(Superior Court for Clark County, Washington, Case No. 21-2-01912-06), (iv) A&A
Developers, Inc. v. Blue Pine Construction Corp. (Alameda County Superior
Court Case No. 22CV020430).”  (SAC ¶ 63.)
            “[I]n
the lawsuit filed by A&A Developers, A&A seeks damages against
Blue Pine and [Jay] for alleged failure to pay monies due on two contracts,
which Blue Pine purportedly entered in August 2019, for work A&A
purportedly completed in 2019 (one year prior to Hilton's departure from Blue
Pine). Hilton was in charge of Blue Pine's finances and financial records at
all times relevant to the A&A complaint, and he negotiated the contracts
and pricing on behalf of Blue Pine. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that
Hilton intentionally, or at a minimum negligently, underbudgeted with respect
to the contracts on which the A&A complaint is based, and Blue Pine was
unable to pay the amounts allegedly due under the contract due to Hilton's
underbudgeting of the projects and mismanagement of Blue Pine. The A&A
Complaint has also named Hilton as a defendant and claims that he was an alter
ego of Blue Pine at the times relevant to the complaint and makes joint
allegations against Hilton and Blue Pine. … Hilton also underbudgeted the
A&A projects and misrepresented to A&A the cost required for the
projects.”  (SAC ¶ 64 [italics added].)
            “In
the lawsuit filed by Sherwin Williams, Sherwin Williams seeks damages against
Blue Pine and [Jay] for alleged failure to pay monies due under a contract
allegedly entered in May 2019, whereby Blue Pine purportedly agreed to buy
goods on credit from Sherwin Williams. Hilton was in charge of Blue Pine's
finances and financial records at all times relevant to the Sherwin Williams
Complaint, and he negotiated the contracts and pricing on behalf of Blue Pine.
Plaintiffs are informed and believe that Hilton intentionally, or at a minimum
negligently, underbudgeted with respect to the projects on which the Sherwin
Williams contract was based, and Blue Pine was unable to pay the amounts
allegedly due under the contract due to Hilton's underbudgeting of the projects
and mismanagement of Blue Pine.”  (SAC ¶
65.)
            “In
a cross-complaint filed in the Sherwin Williams case, ARA Woodlands, JSP
Woodlands, TC Woodlands, and CG Woodlands (collectively ‘Woodlands’), brought a
lawsuit against Blue Pine and Plaintiffs for failure to
complete work on certain projects. Hilton was in charge of Blue Pine's
finances and financial records at the times relevant to the Woodlands' claims,
and he negotiated the contracts and pricing on behalf of Blue Pine with respect
to Woodlands' projects. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that Hilton
intentionally, or at a minimum negligently, underbudgeted with respect to those
projects, and as a result Blue Pine was unable to complete those projects due
to Hilton's underbudgeting of the projects and mismanagement of Blue
Pine.”  (SAC ¶ 66.)  “Woodlands further allege in their
cross-complaint that Plaintiffs fraudulently transferred money to themselves,
including that Plaintiffs purportedly transferred money to themselves for their
own personal benefit. On information and belief, the Woodlands' claims are
based on false statements by Hilton to Woodlands similar to those made to
Jackson Square as alleged in Plaintiffs' defamation count.”  (SAC ¶ 67.)
            “In
the lawsuit filed by Villara, Villara seeks damages against Blue Pine for
alleged failure to pay monies due under a contract allegedly entered in
November 2020. Hilton was in charge of Blue Pine's finances and financial
records during the time of contracting, and he negotiated the contracts and
pricing on behalf of Blue Pine. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that Hilton
intentionally, or at a minimum negligently, underbudgeted with respect to the
contract on which the Villara complaint is based, and Blue Pine was unable to
pay the amounts allegedly due under the contract due to Hilton's underbudgeting
of the project and mismanagement of Blue Pine.” 
(SAC ¶ 68.)
            “In
the lawsuit filed by Prairie Electric, Prairie Electric seeks damages against
Blue Pine for alleged failure to pay monies due under a contract allegedly
entered in September 2020. Hilton was in charge of Blue Pine's finances and
financial records during the time of contracting, and he negotiated the
contracts and pricing on behalf of Blue Pine. Plaintiffs are informed and
believe that Hilton intentionally, or at a minimum negligently, underbudgeted
with respect to the contract on which the Prairie Electric complaint is based,
and Blue Pine was unable to pay the amounts allegedly due under the contract
due to Hilton's underbudgeting of the project and mismanagement of Blue
Pine.”  (SAC ¶ 69.)
            In
each of these cases for which Plaintiffs seek equitable indemnity, Plaintiffs
allege that the plaintiffs in the underlying actions – A&A, Sherwin
Williams, Villara, and Prairie Electric – all seek damages against Blue Pine
for failing to pay money under contracts entered into by Defendant Hilton on
behalf of Blue Pine.  (SAC ¶¶ 64-65,68-69.)  In the A&A case, Hilton is the
alleged alter ego of Blue Pine, and Hilton faces joint and several liability in
the alleged breach of contract claim with Blue Pine.  (SAC ¶ 64.) 
Moreover, Plaintiffs allege that Hilton’s mismanagement of Blue Pine was
the cause of Plaintiffs’ inability to pay A&A under the contract.  (SAC ¶ 64.) 
             A claim for indemnity requires that the
prospective indemnitor and indemnitee are jointly and severally liable to the
plaintiff in the underlying claim.  (Heritage
Oaks Partners, supra, 155 Cal.App.4th at p.348, [“‘unless the prospective
indemnitor and indemnitee are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff
there is no basis for indemnity.’ [Citations.]”].)  Here, the SAC identifies both that Hilton and
Blue Pine are jointly liable to A&A and that Hilton is at fault.  It is immaterial whether Plaintiffs otherwise
state a valid claim for equitable indemnity based on the other actions because a “demurrer does not lie as to a portion of
a cause of action and if any part of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the
demurrer will be overruled.”  (Elder
v. Pacific Bell Telephone Co. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 841, 856, Fn.
14.)
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Conclusion and Order 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Blaise Hilton and Russell Square Consulting,
Inc.’s demurrer to the second amended complaint is OVERRULED.  
            Defendants are to file and
serve an answer no later than March 7, 2024.
            The case management
conference is continued to March 12, 2024 at 8:30 am.
            Moving Parties are to
provide notice and file proof of service of such. 
 
DATED: February ___, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


