 Case Number:  22STCV02508    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 21, 2022, Plaintiff Jose Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Byambadorj Tsendayush, Uber Technologies, Raiser LLC,
Raiser-CA LLC, and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
October 2, 2023, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. (erroneously sued as Uber
Technologies), Rasier, LLC (erroneously sued as Raiser LLC), and Rasier-CA, LLC
(erroneously sued as Raiser-CA LLC) filed an answer. On October 4, 2023,
Defendant Byambadorj Tsendayush filed an answer. 
On October
14, 2024, Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff’s independent psychological examination.  The motion was set for hearing on December 9,
2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 10, 2025. 
PARTY'S REQUEST 
Uber
asks the Court to compel Plaintiff to participate in an independent psychological
examination. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.020 provides in part: 
“(a) Any party may obtain discovery, subject to the
restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by
means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an
agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal
control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition
(including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee. 
“(b) A defendant may make a demand under this article
without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in
the action, whichever occurs first. 
“(c) A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination. 
“(d) A physical examination demanded under subdivision
(a) shall be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service of the
demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may shorten
this time. 
“(e) The defendant shall serve a copy of the demand
under subdivision (a) on the plaintiff and on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court. 
“(b) A motion for an
examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides: 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or
mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
“(b) If a party stipulates as provided in subdivision
(c), the court shall not order a mental examination of a person for whose
personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional
circumstances. 
“(c) A stipulation by a party under this subdivision
shall include both of the following: 
“(1) A stipulation that no claim is being made for
mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the
physical injuries claimed. 
“(2) A stipulation that no expert testimony regarding
this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support
of the claim for damages. 
“(d) An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. 
“(e) If the place of the examination is more than 75
miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it
shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The court determines that there is good cause for
the travel involved. 
“(2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by
the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for
travel to the place of examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
July 23, 2024, Uber served a demand for Plaintiff to attend an independent psychological
examination with Stephen E. Francis, Ph.D., a licensed psychologist
specializing in neuropsychological and forensic evaluations.  The examination was scheduled for
September 11, 2024.  Plaintiff did not
respond to the notice and did not attend the examination.  Uber attempted to meet and confer to
reschedule the examination, without success. 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b), a motion to obtain
discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2
(commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination shall specify, among other things, "the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)  Here, Uber has not provided the required
information.  In particular, Uber has not
specified the “scope” and “nature” of the examination.  Although Uber has attached a copy of its July
23, 2024 examination demand, the demand states: 
“The psychological examination will consist of a
psychological interview between the plaintiff and Dr. Francis, followed by
possible psychological testing, which may include, but is not limited to,
the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory Inventory-3-3 (MMPI-3), the
Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory-4Inventory-4 (MCMI-4), the Millon
Behavioral Medicine Diagnostic (MBMD), Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM), Dot
Counting Test. The examining physician may ask, and Plaintiff shall answer,
questions relating to the nature and extent of the injuries alleged to have
been sustained in the incident that is the subject matter of this action;
present symptoms and conditions; medical history, including the manner in which
the injuries were incurred; prior injuries and conditions; and Plaintiff's
social and academic history.”  (Emphasis
added.) 
          Because the demand’s description of tests which Dr. Francis
may conduct is “not limited to” the tests listed in the demand, it does not
satisfy the requirement of Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.210 to specify
the scope and nature of the examination. 
          In addition, the motion does not specify the time and place
of the examination.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)  The Court denies the motion.
CONCLUSION 
          The Court denies without prejudice Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s motion for leave
to conduct Plaintiff Jose Rodriguez’s psychological examination. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.