 Case Number:  21STCV37727    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Previous proceedings  On  October 13, 2021, Plaintiff Movses Karapetyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants City of Pomona (“Defendant”) and  Does 1-30 for statutory liability/dangerous condition of public property and  premises liability.  On  November 22, 2021, Defendant filed an answer.  At  an informal discovery conference on July 7, 2023, the Court granted the  parties’ oral stipulation to continue the trial and continued the trial from  October 2, 2023 to January 31, 2024, with  discovery and motion cut-off dates to trail the new trial date.  On  January 30, 2024, the Court granted the parties’ stipulated request to continue  the trial from January 31, 2024 to April 25, 2024. The parties stipulated that  all discovery would remain closed with the exception of any outstanding expert  depositions that the parties had previously agreed on. The parties also  stipulated that the Court’s order would not prevent any party from seeking  further relief from the Court.  On  February 28, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to reopen discovery and allow for a  physical examination of Plaintiff or alternatively continue trial with limited  discovery, to be heard on April 10, 2024. Defendant asserted that it had  arranged for its expert, Dr. Barry I. Ludwig, to conduct Plaintiff’s physical  examination and the examination would not delay the upcoming trial. Plaintiff  opposed the motion, arguing that Defendant showed a lack of diligence in  failing to schedule the physical examination before the discovery cut-off.  On  April 10, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to reopen discovery. The  Court concluded that Defendant’s lack of diligence in scheduling Plaintiff’s  physical examination, while troubling, should not prevent Defendant from  conducting discovery which both parties agree is critical to Defendant’s  ability to defend itself in this case. The Court reopened discovery for the  purpose of allowing Defendant to conduct a physical examination of Plaintiff  and ordered Plaintiff to appear for a physical examination on March 26, 2024 or  on another date to which the parties agreed. The Court’s April 10, 2024 order  was premised on the understanding that Defendant had already designated an  expert, Dr. Barry I. Ludwig, who would examine Plaintiff.  On  April 11, 2024, Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s physical examination, not with  Dr. Ludwig but with Dr. Ronald Kvitne on April 15, 2024. Defendant accompanied  the notice with a meet and confer letter asking Plaintiff to agree to allow  Defendant to augment its expert witness list with Dr. Kvitne.  Plaintiff’s  counsel refused to allow Plaintiff to attend the examination by Dr. Kvitne and  refused to stipulate to allow Defendant to augment its expert witness list to  include Dr. Kvitne.  On  April 12, 2024, Defendant filed (1) a motion to augment its expert witness list to include Dr. Kvitne and (2) a motion for issue, evidentiary, and monetary  sanctions against Plaintiff or his attorneys.  The motions were set for hearing on May 29, 2024. On  April 17, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s ex parte application to continue  the trial until after the hearing on Defendant’s motion to augment its expert  witness list to include Dr. Kvitne. The Court observed that, in refusing to  allow Dr. Kvitne to conduct Plaintiff’s physical examination, Plaintiff had not violated the Court’s April 10, 2024  order because the Court did not order Plaintiff to stipulate to augment  Defendant’s expert witness list with Dr. Kvitne. Defendant subsequently took its motions to augment its expert witness list and for sanctions off calendar.  On  April 25, 2024, the Court found the case was trial-ready and referred the case  to Master Calendar Department 1 for a trial assignment. At the direction of  Department 1, the Court continued the trial to May 14, 2024. The Court observed  that all motion and discovery deadlines were closed.  On  May 14, 2024, based on counsel’s stipulation, the Court continued the trial to  June 6, 2024.  On  July 9, 2024, based on counsel’s stipulation, the Court continued the trial to  August 5, 2024.  On  August 5, 2024, no courtrooms were available for trial. The Court continued the  trial to August 26, 2024.  On  August 23, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application in part and  continued the trial to November 26, 2024 based on the death of Defendant’s  counsel. The Court denied the request to extend discovery deadlines.  On December  3, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion “to re-open discovery to augment  or amend its expert witness list and proceed with court order[ed] physical exam  of Plaintiff.”  (Capitalized in  original.)  Trial  is currently scheduled for February 3, 2025.  B.   This motion On September  13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to augment or amend its expert witness  list.  The motion was set for hearing on November  13, 2024.  Defendant rescheduled the  hearing for December 9, 2024.  On  November 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On December 2, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS            Defendant asks the Court for leave to augment or amend Defendant’s  expert witness list.            Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD            Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.610 provides:  “(a) On motion of any party who has engaged in a  timely exchange of expert witness information, the court may grant leave to do  either or both of the following:  “(1) Augment that party’s expert witness list and  declaration by adding the name and address of any expert witness whom that  party has subsequently retained.  “(2) Amend that party’s expert witness declaration  with respect to the general substance of the testimony that an expert  previously designated is expected to give.  “(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be made at a  sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery  under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of  any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit. Under  exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made at a  later time.   “(c) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2034.610.)            Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.620 provides:  “The court shall grant leave to augment or amend an  expert witness list or declaration only if all of the following conditions are  satisfied:  “(a) The court has taken into account the extent to  which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.  “(b) The court has determined that any party opposing  the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense  on the merits.  “(c) The court has determined either of the following:                    “(1) The moving party  would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that  expert witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony  of that expert witness.  “(2) The moving party failed to determine to call that  expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that  expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable  neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:  “(A) Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after  deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or additional  testimony.  “(B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed  expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony described in  Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.  “(d) Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on the  moving party making the expert available immediately for a deposition under  Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be  just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to  designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from  those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period  of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party  opposing the motion.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2034.620.)  DISCUSSION  Defendant  asks the Court for leave to augment Defendant’s expert witness list by adding orthopedic expert Ronald S. Kvitne, M.D.  Defendant argues that Defendant’s prior  counsel mistakenly designated a neurologist instead of Dr. Kvitne and then  failed to file a motion to augment the expert witness list to include Dr.  Kvitne.  (It appear that counsel filed a motion to augment the expert witness list on April 12, 2024, but then took the motion off calendar before the scheduled hearing.)  On  December 3, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion to reopen discovery.  As a result, expert discovery remains closed.  Because expert discovery is closed, Defendant  cannot comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.610, subdivision (b),  which provides that “[a] motion under subdivision (a) shall be made at a  sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery  under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of  any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit.” Code  of Civil Procedure section 2034.610, subdivision (b), also provides that, “[u]nder  exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion [to augment] to be  made at a later time.”  Defendant has not shown that exceptional circumstances exist which  permit Defendant to make its motion after the close of expert discovery.In addition, the Court cannot find that Defendant "would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that [Dr. Kvitne]" (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.620, subd, (c)(1)) because the record shows that Defendant had decided to call Dr. Kvitne as early as April 11, 2024.  The  Court denies the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant City of Pomona’s motion to augment its expert witness designation.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.