 Case Number:  22STCV30940    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  50 THERE ARE TWO TENTATIVE RULINGS: 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




SL RETAIL OWNER, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NOWHERE SILVER LAKE, LLC, dba
  EREWHON., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV30940




Hearing Date:


January 6, 2025




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANT AND
  CROSS-COMPLAINANT NOWHERE SILVER LAKE, LLC dba EREWHON’S MOTION TO SEAL
  CONFIDENTIAL PORTIONS AND DOCUMENTS FILED IN SUPPORT OF CROSS-DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 




Background
Plaintiff SL Retail Owner LLC (“SL Retail”) filed this action on
September 21, 2022 against Defendants Nowhere Silver Lake, LLC dba Erewhon (“Erewhon”) and Nowhere
Holdco, LLC. SL Retail filed the operative First Amended Complaint on September
25, 2024, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional
misrepresentation, (3) negligent misrepresentation, and (4) declaratory
judgment. 
On September 5, 2024,
Erewhon filed the operative Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TACC”) in this
action against Cross-Defendants Sportsmen’s Lodge Owner, LLC, SL Retail, and
Midwood Management Corp. aka Midwood Investment and Development (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”). The TACC alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2)
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud
(concealment), (4) fraud (concealment), (5) fraud (intentional
misrepresentation), (6) negligent misrepresentation, (7) violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.,
and (8) declaratory relief. 
On October 31, 2024,
Cross-Defendants filed a motion for summary adjudication.   
Erewhon now moves to seal (1) “[s]elect
portions of the Memorandum of Points and Authorities Filed in Support of
Cross-Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication,” and (2) “Exhibit H to the
Compendium of Exhibits filed in Support of Cross-Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication.” Cross-Defendants filed a “limited opposition” to the motion.   
Discussion 
Generally, court records
are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by law. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) If the presumption of access
applies, the court may order that a record be filed under seal “if it expressly
finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest
supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)
Erewhon moves for “[a]n
order permanently sealing Exhibit H to the Compendium of Exhibits filed in
Support of Cross-Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication.” (Notice of Mot.
at p. 2:22-23.) In addition, Erewhon
moves for “[a]n order permanently sealing the following portions of the
Memorandum of Points and Authorities filed in support of Cross-Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment which identify or reference information derived
from Exhibit H to Cross-Defendants’ Compendium of Exhibits: a. Redacted language
from page 2, line 4 of the motion; b. Redacted language from page 4, line 11 of
the motion; c. Redacted language from page 5, lines 15, 21, 22, and 23 of the
motion; d. Redacted language from page 6, lines 3, 8, and 9 of the motion; and
e. Redacted language from page 12, line 2 of the motion.” (Notice of Mot. at pp. 2:24-3:6.) Exhibit
H and the foregoing portions of Cross-Defendants’ Memorandum of Points
and Authorities are collectively
referred to herein as the “Subject Materials.” 
Erewhon asserts that it “has
an overriding interest to maintain the confidentiality of the [Subject]
Materials because of the proprietary financial information contained therein.”
(Mot. at p. 12:16-17.) In Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 503, cited by
Erewhon, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he right to
privacy under article I, section 1 of the
California Constitution extends to one’s confidential financial
affairs…This right embraces confidential financial information in whatever form
it takes, whether that form be tax returns, checks, statements, or other
account information.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) Erewhon also cites to Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1285-1286, where the
Court of Appeal found as follows:
 
“Included in the documents attached
to the judicial notice request are 20 pages of financial and accounting
data…Defendant has filed a fact-specific declaration by Daniel Martinez, a
senior vice-president and controller of defendant. Mr. Martinez’s declaration
argues disclosure will cause ‘competitive harm’ to defendant in its
negotiations with competitors and customers. Based upon Mr. Martinez’s
declaration and the nature of the financial data, we ordinarily would order
sealing of such matters. Ordinarily, we would conclude: the financial
information involves confidential matters relating to the business operations
of defendant; public revelation of these matters would interfere with its
ability to effectively compete in the marketplace both here in this country and
overseas; if made available to the public, there is a substantial probability
that their revelation would prejudice the foregoing legitimate interests of
defendant; an order sealing these 20 pages, which are largely blank, is
narrowly tailored; and other than sealing, no less restrictive means exists to
protect defendant’s legitimate proprietary interests. However, the
financial data at issue also appears in an unsealed portion of the superior court file in another case.” (Emphasis added.) 
In support of the instant motion, Erewhon submits the Declaration of
Tony Antoci, the “Chief Executive Officer of Nowhere Studio City, LLC, as well
as all other entities doing business as Erewhon, including the guarantor on the
Lease, Nowhere Holdco, LLC.” (Antoci Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Antoci states that “[o]n or around October 15, 2024,
Erewhon produced its income statement (the ‘Income Statement’), which contains
details regarding the finances for Erewhon’s Studio City location from November
2021 through August 2024. The Income Statement was produced with a ‘Highly
Confidential / Attorneys’ Eyes Only’ designation. I am informed that a copy of
the Income Statement was included as an Exhibit to the Cross-Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Adjudication, which was filed on or around October 30, 2024.”
(Antoci Decl., ¶ 3.)[1]
Mr. Antoci indicates that “Erewhon’s Income Statement contains details
regarding the total sales and costs of goods sold at Erewhon’s Studio City
location. Erewhon treats this information, and all of the other information
discussed below and included on the Income Statement, as highly confidential,
proprietary, and sensitive, and only shares it with select members of Erewhon’s
executive team.” (Antoci Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Antoci also indicates that 
“[t]he
Income Statement contains more than just details regarding the sales and net
profits earned from Erewhon’s Studio City location. It also contains a detailed
breakdown of Erewhon’s expenses and sources of income.” (Antoci Decl., ¶ 5.)
Erewhon asserts that its “overriding interest in maintaining the
confidentiality of the [Subject] Materials will be substantially prejudiced if
this Motion is not granted and the [Subject] Materials are not permanently
sealed.” (Mot. at p. 13:16-18.) In his supporting declaration, Mr. Antoci
states that “the Income Statement contains details regarding the wages that
Erewhon pays to employees at its Studio City location. This data is broken down
by department and/or role, and includes details regarding the costs associated
with employee benefits and applicable payroll taxes. Were this information to
become public, it could damage Erewhon’s ability to compete in the marketplace…Were
a competitor to gain access to the details regarding what Erewhon pays its
employees, that competitor could use that information to either poach Erewhon’s
current employees, or to compete with Erewhon for new employees. Additionally,
someone could use this information to determine the salaries of individual
employees.” (Antoci Decl., ¶ 5.) 
In addition, Mr. Antoci states that “Erewhon’s Income Statement also
contains details
regarding
the income that Erewhon generates from e-commerce, specialty departments, like
its sushi section, and customer loyalty / membership programs. These items
provide Erewhon with a competitive advantage in the marketplace. It is not
shared with Erewhon’s competitors or the public at large. Were a competitor to
gain access to this information, that competitor could tailor its business,
through an emphasis on e-commerce or the introduction of a similar loyalty
program, in an effort to compete with Erewhon.” (Antoci Decl., ¶ 6.) Mr. Antoci
states that “[t]he Income Statement also contains details regarding the rent
and related operating costs that Erewhon pays for its Studio City location. If
this information were made public, it could be used against Erewhon in future
lease negotiations. For example, a prospective landlord could negotiate a
future lease based on what Erewhon pays at its Studio City location, rather
than based on applicable market conditions associated with a new location.”
(Antoci Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            Lastly, Erewhon asserts that its “request
to seal the [Subject] Materials is narrowly tailored as it seeks to seal only
information that constitutes, or is derived from, Erewhon’s confidential and
proprietary financial information. Erewhon simply seeks to seal its financial
records (attached as Exhibit H to the Compendium of Exhibits filed in support
of Cross-Defendants’ MSA) and the portions of Cross-Defendants’ Memorandum of
Points and Authorities in support of the MSA, which reference or derive
information from those records. No less restrictive means exist to safeguard
this information.” (Mot. at p. 15:11-17.) 
            In the limited opposition,
Cross-Defendants assert that “[w]hile permanently sealing the
conditionally sealed records filed with Cross-Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication (‘MSA’) should not impact the Court’s ability to rule on the MSA,
in the event the MSA is not granted, the permanent sealing of such records will
impact the parties’ ability to conduct a fair and open trial of this matter.”
(Opp’n at p. 2:4-8.) Cross-Defendants assert that “Erewhon should not be
permitted to publicly claim that it has suffered out-of-pocket damages at
Cross-Defendants’ hands, and then attempt to shield from the public the very
evidence which would prove its allegations false.” (Opp’n at p. 3:7-9.) Cross-Defendants
cite to Steiny & Co. v. Cal. Elec. Supply Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 285, 292, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[w]hen a party asserting a claim
invokes privilege to withhold crucial evidence, the policy favoring full
disclosure of relevant evidence conflicts with the policy underlying the
privilege. Courts have resolved this conflict by holding that the proponent of
the claim must give up the privilege in order to pursue the claim. Where
privileged information goes to the heart of the claim, fundamental fairness
requires that it be disclosed for the litigation to proceed.” 
But the inquiry at issue in Erewhon’s instant motion to seal is
whether the criteria set forth in
California Rules of Court, rule 2.550,
subdivision (d) have been satisfied. As discussed, this
provision provides that “[t]he court
may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts
that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.” Cross-Defendants do not appear to cite to
legal authority supporting their apparent request to “unseal” the Subject
Materials just for purposes of trial. Erewhon also notes that “[i]n
the event the Court grants Erewhon’s Motion and seals Exhibit H and those
portions of Cross-Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities in support
of their MSA, the Protective Order nevertheless provides that ‘[t]he Parties
shall meet and confer regarding the procedures for use of Confidential
Materials or Highly Confidential / Attorneys’ Eyes Only Materials at trial and
shall move the Court for entry of an appropriate order.’…This provision should
allay Cross-Defendants’ concerns.” (Reply at p. 3:8-13; see Levine
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1, ¶ 20.)[2]  
            Cross-Defendants
also argue that “virtually all of Erewhon’s arguments center
around the particular breakdown of certain expenses and profits – not the total
amount of Erewhon’s profits at the Center…While there may be some legitimate
business interest in preserving privacy regarding how much Erewhon spends on
certain specific expenses, or how much profit Erewhon reaps because of
particular membership programs, the same logic does not apply to the
bottom-line total net profit that Erewhon reaps at the Center.” (Opp’n at p.
4:3-8.) Cross-Defendants assert that “a less restrictive means of achieving
Erewhon’s stated interest would be to seal only the ledger with the particular
breakdown of expenses and profits, while permitting the bottom-line net profit
number be unsealed within the body of Cross-Defendants’ Memorandum of Points
and Authorities and otherwise.” (Opp’n at p. 4:8-11.) However, in his
supporting declaration, Mr. Antoci states that “[t]he Income Statement
contains…details regarding the sales and net profits earned from
Erewhon’s Studio City location,” and that Erewhon “treats…all of
the…information…included on the Income Statement, as highly confidential,
proprietary, and sensitive…” (Antoci Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, emphasis added.) As
discussed above, Erewhon cites to Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc., supra,
231 Cal.App.4th,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he right to privacy
under article I, section 1 of the California
Constitution extends to one’s confidential financial affairs…” (Id. at page 503 [internal quotations
omitted].) The Court does not find that Cross-Defendants have shown that
the profit numbers should not be sealed in the subject Memorandum of Points and
Authorities. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Erewhon has
demonstrated that “(1) There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the [Subject Materials]; (2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the [Subject Materials]; (3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the [Subject Materials] [are] not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Erewhon’s motion is granted. Pursuant to California Rules
of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e), the Court
directs the clerk to file this Order, maintain the Subject Materials ordered sealed in a secure manner, and clearly identify
the Subject Materials as sealed by this Order.
Erewhon is ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  January 6, 2025                              
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Cour


