  Case Number:  22STCV04868    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (JAFRA)
On February 4, 2022, Plaintiffs Justin Baylis, Garret Baylis, and
Jennifer Galloway filed this action alleging that Lorie Baylis developed
mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos in Defendant Jafra Cosmetics
International, Inc.’s products.  Plaintiffs
did not file an opposition.
A defendant seeking summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a
necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no
hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that requires the process of
trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show
that a plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant
must make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v.
Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he
did not recall ever working with a product manufactured by the defendant may
not be sufficient to shift the burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his
case by another means.  (Weber v. John
Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs respond to comprehensive
interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers that restate
their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people and/or documents,
the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to them once
defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiff’s factually
devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id.
at p. 1440.)
Defendant argues Plaintiffs have no evidence that Lorie Baylis was
exposed to asbestos from Defendant.  (Motion at p. 8.)  Defendant served an interrogatory asking for
all facts and witnesses supporting Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant.  (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts (“UMF”) 3.)  Plaintiffs responded
that Baylis used Defendant’s cosmetic talcum powder products in or around the
early 1990s.  (Defendant’s Index, Ex. B
at p. 4.)  The responses do not contain
evidence that products from Defendant contained asbestos.  (Id. at pp. 4-6.)  Plaintiffs listed themselves and unnamed individuals
as having knowledge supporting the claims. (Id. at p. 8.)  In response to requests for all documents
supporting Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant, Plaintiffs did not list specific
documents showing exposure to asbestos-containing products from Defendant.  (UMF 8, 9.) 

            Garret Baylis testified
he recalled Lorie Baylis using Avon and Revlon makeup products but not Jafra
products.  (Defendant’s Index, Ex. E at pp.
107, 113.)  Jennifer Baylis testified she
recalled Jafra Cosmetics but no other specifics.  (Id., Ex. F at pp. 174, 176.)  Justin Baylis could not recall Lorie Baylis
using a specific Jafra brand.  (Id.,
Ex. D at pp. 142-143.)  Richard Baylis
remembers Lorie Baylis buying Avon products. 
(Id.. Ex. G at p. 179.)
These discovery responses show a lack of evidence that Lorie Baylis was
exposed to asbestos-containing products from Defendant, and thus, were sufficient
to shift the burden.  Because Plaintiffs
did not file an opposition, they did not show the existence of a disputed fact.

The motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant is to file a proposed judgment
within five days.
The moving party is to give notice.