

 
            This is a unlawful
detainer action. Plaintiff Archstone Toluca Hills LLC filed a Complaint against Defendant Terivin Foster on October 2, 2023.
 
On
February 7, 2024, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into an Unlawful Detainer
Stipulation and Judgment that was entered by this Court that same day.
 
 Plaintiff now moves for a court
order enforcing the stipulation and unsealing the court record pursuant to its
terms. No opposition was filed. 
 
            The motion
is granted. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff moves
for a court order enforcing the stipulation/judgment entered on February 7,
2024 and unsealing the court record pursuant to its terms. Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to comply with the terms of the
stipulation by failing to vacate the premises on or before 5 pm on 03/31/2024
and by failing to make the monthly required payments of $500 by the 15th of
each consecutive month starting 04/15/2024. In exchange for Defendant’s
compliance with these terms, Plaintiff had agreed to keep this court record
sealed. 
 
            Plaintiff now
seeks to enforce this stipulation pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
664.6. 
 
            Section
664.6 provides a summary procedure by which a trial court may specifically
enforce an agreement settling pending litigation without requiring the filing
of a second lawsuit. (Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 793, 809.) That section provides in relevant part: “If parties to
pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the
terms of the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6 [emphasis added].)
 
Here, however, the matter was
already reduced to a judgment and thus, Section 664.6 does not apply. 
 
Rather, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(4), “[e]very court shall have the
power .... [¶] ... [¶] [t]o compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and
process, and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an action or proceeding
pending therein.” This statute has codified the principle of “[t]he inherent
power of the trial court to exercise reasonable control over litigation before
it, as well as the inherent and equitable power to achieve justice and prevent
misuse of processes lawfully issued....” (Venice Canals Resident Home Owners
Assn. v. Superior Court (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 675, 679.)
 
Under this
authority, the Court has the power to effectuate the judgment and enforce its
terms. Based on the undisputed evidence that Defendant has not complied with
its obligations under the Stipulated Judgment, the Court will enforce its terms
and order the record unsealed. 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion is granted and the Court
orders the court record unsealed.