  Case Number:  BC633651    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  P Motion to Tax CostsMoving Party: Plaintiff Betty TansavadtiResponding Party: Defendant City of Rancho Palos VerdesRULINGThe court considered the moving papers and opposition. The motion to tax costs is GRANTED in the amount of $2,459.00.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn September 9, 2016, Plaintiff Betty Tansavatdi (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants City of Rancho Palos Verdes (the “City”); the County of Los Angeles (the “County”); and the State of California (the “State”).On February 15, 2024, the City filed a motion for summary judgment, which was granted on September 6, 2024.On November 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion. On December 10, 2024, the City filed an opposition. On January 10, 2025, Plaintiff filed a reply.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis action arises from a motor vehicle accident, which killed Plaintiff’s son. (Opp., p. 1, lines 3-6.) Plaintiff then filed a complaint against the City, alleging that there was a dangerous condition at the intersection where the accident occurred, and the City failed to include a bike lane. (Opp., p. 1, lines 6-9.) The City claimed design immunity. (Opp., p. 1, lines 10-11.)The City served upon Plaintiff an offer of compromise pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. section 998, which Plaintiff did not accept. (Opp., p. 1, lines 12-13.) The City filed a motion for summary judgment, which was granted. (Opp., p. 1, lines 13-16.)LEGAL STANDARD“Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding. This means that the prevailing party is entitled to all of his costs unless another statute provides otherwise. Absent such statutory authority, the court has no discretion to deny costs to the prevailing party.” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 128-129 (citations and internal quotations omitted); see also Code of Civ. Proc. § 1032, subd. (b).)Allowable costs under Code of Civil Procedure § 1033.5 must be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in amount. An item not specifically allowable under § 1033.5(a) nor prohibited under subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable in amount). If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.) Whereas, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. (Id.) Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (Id.) However, because the right to costs is governed strictly by statute, a court has no discretion to award costs not statutorily authorized. (Id.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentThe City’s 998 offer was not made in good faith. Further, the costs sought by the City are either excessive in amount, not reasonably necessary to the litigation, or not supported by documentary evidence.Opposing Party’s ArgumentThe City notes that the opposition was filed late due to a scheduling error. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d), the court exercises its discretion to consider late papers.The City argues that the costs incurred were all necessary to the litigation. Further, the 998 offer was made in good faith, and Plaintiff’s argument that the law surrounding design immunity was unsettled is unavailing.Reply ArgumentThe settlement offer was not made in good faith as it had no reasonable chance of being accepted. Further, The City has not substantiated the claimed costs in Attachment 16, and thus, these costs should be denied.Merits of the MotionA. Deposition CostsPlaintiff seeks to strike the costs of the Johann Scholoegl, Alexandra Panzone, Jessica Gadway, Christopher Dal Chele, David Johnson, Supamon “Ping” Supanichtavorn Barwick (“Supanichtavorn”), Darrel Clardy, Kevin Troy Box, Teresa Chang, Kristina Tansavatdi, and Katharine Tansavadti’s depositions, as the parties did not rely on these depositions in litigating the motion for summary judgment. The City argues that these depositions were reasonably necessary, even if not actually relied on, because the City needed to determine the potential level of damages and did not know which law enforcement officers or drivers witnessed the accident until the depositions were taken.As the City notes, the test is not whether the depositions were actually used, but whether they were “reasonably necessary to litigating the case at the time they were incurred.” (Garcia v. Tempur-Pedic North America, LLC (2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 819, 824.) Thus, deposition costs of potential witnesses are recoverable, unless there were circumstances showing that the deposition was not reasonably necessary at the time if was taken. (Id. at p. 825.)The City identified the above parties as potential witnesses to the accident and indicated that the it needed to interview relatives of the decedent to determine potential damages. Accordingly, these costs were reasonably necessary to the litigation, and the court will not tax them.However, the court will strike $670.00 from the memorandum of costs, as both parties agree that this cost was incurred in requesting an expedited transcript and should not have been included in the memorandum.B. Service of Process CostsPlaintiff objects to the inclusion of “stakeout costs” in serving certain subpoenas. Plaintiff also argues that law enforcement officers should be served through their subpoena control desks and typically do not require multiple attempts to serve. Thus, these costs are excessive.“Stakeout costs” are expressly allowed if they were incurred in connection with a registered process server effectuating service. (Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5, subd. (a)(4)(B). Thus, the court will not strike these costs.As to the law enforcement officers, the City is entitled to recover costs actually incurred in effectuating service, even if cheaper means were available, pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5, subds. (a)(4)(B).Thus, the court denies Plaintiff’s motion to tax the service of process costs.C. Expert FeesThe City’s 998 settlement offer reads as follows: “In full settlement of this action, Defendant CITY OF RANCHO PALOS VERDES hereby offers a waiver of Defendant's right to recover legal costs under Code of Civil Procedure § 1032, both past costs of $111,751.32 and costs still to be incurred in the future, between this date and through completion of trial, in exchange for each of the following items: The entry of a request for dismissal with prejudice on behalf of plaintiff, BETTY TANSAVATDI, in favor of defendant, CITY OF RANCHO PALOS VERDES; The execution and transmittal of a General Release by plaintiff BETTY TANSAVATDI, in favor of defendant, CITY OF RANCHO PALOS VERDES; and Each party is to bear their own costs and attorney fees and the settlement will include all existing and future medical, legal and other liens arising in any way from the subject accident.”Plaintiff argues that the offer was made in bad faith, as it was merely a token offer, given the degree of loss suffered by Plaintiff, the state of discovery at the time, and the unsettled law surrounding the effects of considered warnings on the City’s liability. Further, the offer was uncertain as it does not specify the terms of the “general release.” The City argues that the law was settled at the time, so Plaintiff’s argument is not well-taken.1. Uncertainty in the 998 OfferThe court finds that the 998 offer was not so uncertain as to render it invalid. First, the inclusion of a “general release” is insufficient to invalidate a 998 offer if the offer is limited to claims related to the instant lawsuit. (See Goodstein v. Bank of San Pedro (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 899, 907 [A requirement to execute a general release can be part of a valid 998 offer.]) Here, the 998 offer requires Plaintiff to waive all claims stemming from the subject accident but does not require her to waive any other claim she may have against the City.Further, the offer’s silence on attorney’s fees does not render it invalid. California courts have held that “a party who secures a recovery by accepting a 998 offer is entitled to costs and fees unless they are excluded by the offer.” Thus, the City’s failure to identify whether fees are included does not invalidate the whole 998 offer. Moreover, the court finds that the offer’s language of "both past costs… and costs still to be incurred” under section 1033.5 is sufficiently specific.2. Bad FaithA party seeking to avoid the penalties of section 998 bears the burden of proving that the rejected offer was made in bad faith. (See Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co., Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 116–117.) Even a “‘modest settlement offer’ may be in good faith if it is believed the defendant has a significant likelihood of prevailing at trial.” (Jones v. Dumrichrob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1264.) If an offeror prevails on a summary judgment motion, the offer is presumptively reasonable, and it is the offeree’s burden to prove otherwise. (Essex Ins. Co. v. Heck (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1529.)Here, Plaintiff argues that the City’s offer was made in bad faith as it was merely a token offer, and its value was insignificant compared to Plaintiff’s loss. However, the City asserted from the beginning that it was entitled to design immunity as it was merely required to show that a reasonable public employee could have approved the design of the road. The City ultimately prevailed on a motion for summary judgment, and thus its offer was presumptively reasonable. Moreover, a waiver of entitlement to costs carries significant value, and is not a mere token offer. (Jones, supra, 63 Cal.App.4th at p. 1264.)Plaintiff also argues that, considering the state of the law and discovery at the time the offer was made, the City could not have reasonably believed that the offer would be accepted. However, the City has asserted from the outset that it strongly believed that it was statutorily immune from any liability, a belief which was communicated to Plaintiff when the 998 offer was made. Thus, the court does not find that the offer was made in bad faith.Though Plaintiff’s rejection of the offer may have been reasonable under the circumstances, that alone does not establish that the City made the offer in bad faith.Accordingly, the court finds that the City is entitled to expert fees.3. Reasonableness of the FeesPlaintiff argues that the City did not provide invoices, and therefore, she cannot determine if those fees were reasonable. In opposition, the City provides invoices for each of its experts and argues that it can recover fees for all of the depositions, even if some testimony was not used in the motion for summary judgment.To recover expert fees under section 998, the fees must be “actually incurred and reasonably necessary in… preparation for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 998, subd. (c)(1).) A memorandum of costs is “prima facie evidence that the costs are proper and necessarily incurred,” and thus, the party seeking to tax costs has the burden of providing competent evidence that the costs are unreasonable. (Rojas v. HSBC Card Services, Inc. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 860, 891.) “’[M]ere statements’” in a motion to strike are not sufficient evidence to rebut this prima facie showing. (Id. at p. 896.)Here, Plaintiff has offered only the statements in her motion to strike to rebut the reasonableness of the fees. Thus, the court finds that she has not met her burden.Accordingly, the court denies Plaintiff’s motion to strike the expert fees.E. Transcript FeesCode Civ. Proc. section 1033.5 expressly states that fees for “transcripts in court proceedings not ordered by the court” are not recoverable. Plaintiff argues that this cost should be stricken, as the court did not order a transcript. Though the court requested a transcript, the court directed that request at Plaintiff, but the City insisted that it would fulfill the request. The City argues that it is unclear whether “ordered by the court” is directed at “proceedings” or “transcripts.” However, “court reporter fees” are recoverable, so transcript fees should be as well.The court did not order transcripts for the proceedings on 11/2/2020, 6/13/20023, or 7/18/24. Thus, the court taxes the memorandum of costs by $1,789.00As the court requested a transcript for the 7/31/2024 proceedings, the court will not strike this cost.F. Interpreter FeesPlaintiff objects to these fees, as Ms. Supanichtavorn testified almost exclusively in English. Further, her deposition was taken in bad faith, as the City was only attempting to find unsavory information about the decedent. The City argues that deposition of the decedent’s former spouse was necessary, as it could help determine the level of damages. Plaintiff also cannot argue it was taken in bad faith, when Plaintiff moved to compel Ms. Supanichtavorn’s third session of her deposition.In support, the City cites to Segal v. Asics America Corporation (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 659, in which the court upheld costs for an interpreter, even though the deponent had some English proficiency, because the deponent wanted to ensure that he understood the questions as clearly as possible. Similarly, although Ms. Supanichtavorn could communicate in English, she requested the presence of a Thai interpreter so that she could fully understand the court proceedings.Accordingly, the court denies Plaintiff’s motion to tax interpreter fees.G. Other CostsPlaintiff opposes the City’s request for mileage, parking, skip tracing, and CourtCall, photo/video, and other travel expenses as they were unreasonable or unnecessary. The City contends that travel costs incurred in connection with the taking of a deposition, including mileage are expressly recoverable. Further, as noted above, the test is whether these depositions were reasonably necessary at the time they were taken. The City also argues that the skip tracing costs are recoverable because they were incurred while trying to subpoena potential witnesses. Plaintiff argues that the parking and mileage fees claimed in Attachment 16 are unsubstantiated and must be denied. Further, some of those fees are not recoverable as they were not incurred in connection with the taking of a deposition.As discussed above, the court finds that the depositions were reasonably necessary to the litigation at the time they were taken. Thus, all related travel expenses, including mileage and parking, are recoverable. The court has also upheld awards of CourtCall fees, as they are a means for a party to attend court hearings. (See Landwatch San Luis Obispo County v. Cambria Community Services District (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 638, 646.)The City also argues that costs incurred in effectuating service includes “other means employed in locating the persons to be served,” pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5, subd. (a)(3)(B). Skip tracing falls under this description. Alternatively, the court may allow these costs under subd. (c)(4). As the skip tracing costs were incurred serving potential witnesses, the court will allow this cost, pursuant to section 1033.5, subd. (c)(4).Plaintiff argues that all travel expenses to the courthouse, coroner’s office, or inspections must be taxed as only deposition-related expenses are expressly allowable under section 1033.5. While Plaintiff’s assertion is correct, the court may still award costs not listed under this section if the court finds they were reasonably necessary to the litigation. (See Code Civ. Proc. section 1033.5, subd. (c)(4).) The court finds that visits to the coroner’s office and inspections of the vehicles involved in the accident were reasonably necessary to establishing the City’s defense. Further, in-person court appearances are reasonably necessary to protect a client’s interests.Thus, the court denies Plaintiff’s motion to tax these costs.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The court grants Plaintiff’s motion to tax the memorandum of costs by $2,459.00 ($670.00 in expedited transcript fees and $1,789.00 in other transcript fees).Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.