 Case Number:  22STCV15997    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  19 RULING
After consideration of the briefing filed and oral
argument at the hearing, Plaintiff Sonny’s Car Wash Services of California, LLC’s
unopposed Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
Although the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
file the [Proposed] Second Amended Complaint, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion for an order that the [Proposed] Second Amended Complaint be deemed
filed.
The Court signs the proposed order filed on May 7, 2024 as modified
Counsel for Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
STATEMENT OF FACTS
This case arises out of alleged breach of contract and
fraud. Plaintiff Sonny’s Car Wash Services of California, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
brings suit against Defendants Michael McGuinness, MC Group, LLC, McGuinness
VWS, and MEP Services, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging the following
causes of action in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”):
1.     Breach of Contract;
2.     Fraud;
3.     Unjust Enrichment; and
4.     Misappropriation of Trade
Secrets.  
 
In the Third Amended Cross-Complaint (the “TACC”),
Cross-Complainants Michael McGuinness, McGuinness VWS (“VWS”), and McGroup, LLC
(“McG”) (hereafter, “Cross-Complainants”) bring suit against Plaintiff
(hereafter, “Cross-Defendant”) alleging the following causes of action:
1.     Breach Of Contract;
2.     Third-Party Breach of Contract;
3.     Fraudulent Inducement;
4.     Business And Professions Code 17200;
5.     Breach Of Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing;
6.     Conversion; and
7.     Labor Code Violations.
 
Plaintiff filed the instant
Motion for Leave to File
Second Amended Complaint (the “Motion”). 
GROUNDS FOR MOTION
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 473 and 576,
Plaintiff moves for an order granting leave to file the [Proposed] Second
Amended Complaint that makes the following amendments: (1) ¿adds claims for Fraud in the Contract
Formation based on Concealment, Intentional Misrepresentation, and Negligent
Misrepresentation; (2) separates the claim for Breach of Contract into separate
claims for each of the ¿separate breaches, and (3) adds a claim for interference with a
contractual relationship against MEP Services, Inc., and Doe Defendants Shannon
McLaughlin and MOM Investments. DISCUSSION
As an initial matter, Defendants do not oppose the instant Motion,
effectively consenting to the Court granting it. (See Cal. R. Ct., 8.54(c) [“A
failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the
motion.”].)
A.   
Procedural Requirements
Under California Rules of
Court Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall:
(1)  Include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)  State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
 
(3)  State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
(Cal. Rules Ct., rule
3.1324(a).)
Under California Rule of
Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify:
(1)  The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)  Why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3)  When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)  The reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.
(Cal. Rules Ct., rule
3.1324(b).)
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff complies with California Rules of Court Rule, rule 3.1324,
subdivisions (a) and (b). (See Brandon D.B. Howard Decl., ¶¶ 3, 5-33, Exs.
A-B.)
B.    Analysis
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice
to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a)(1).) “Any judge, at any time
before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon
such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or
pretrial conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) 
The policy in California is that leave to amend is to be granted
liberally, to accomplish substantial justice for both parties. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 488-89.) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.”  (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d
527, 531.) “Generally, leave to amend must be liberally granted provided there
is no statute of limitations concern, nor any prejudice to the opposing party,
such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.”
(Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York
Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
Here, Plaintiff moves for leave to file the
[Proposed] Second Amended Complaint on the grounds that, since the Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action [Fraud] and Third
Cause of Action [Unjust Enrichment] without leave to amend on the basis of the
economic loss rule, Plaintiff has conducted discovery and determined “¿numerous factual issues and violations
that were unknown to Sonny’s at the time that relate back to the allegations
and claims set forth in the FAC.” (Motion, p. 2.) Plaintiff contends that “the
case has progressed very little.” Defendants have not served written discovery
on Plaintiff or taken any deposition, and the Third Amended Cross-Complaint is
still not at issue. (Id.) The Court does not find that granting Plaintiff leave to file the
[Proposed] Second Amended Complaint would prejudice Defendants, particularly in
light of Defendants’ lack of opposition. The Court agrees with Plaintiff that
Cross-Complainants’ TACC, which was just filed on July 8, 2024, is not yet at
issue. 
Thus, the Motion is GRANTED.
 
 