


[1] Plaintiff did not
sue any Doe defendants. 
 


[2] It appears Plaintiff
trespassed onto the property (Demurrer p. 2:24-25) and Plaintiff’s opposition
does not maintain otherwise. 
 


[3] Aerial and site
photographs of the properties and wash is attached as Exhibit 4 to the
Declaration of Andre C. Robin. (See Robin Decl., pp. 23-25 of 25 of PDF.) 
 


[4] Plaintiff’s Counsel
explains the opposition was not timely filed due a clerical error on part of
his staff. In fact, the opposition is indeed dated to 3/13/24, showing that the
opposition would have been timely filed but for the clerical error. Plaintiff’s
Counsel did not learn of the non-filing because he left Los Angeles on 3/14/24
to tend to a family emergency. With that, the court does not strike the
opposition. 
 


[5] The court grants the
RJN (includes grand deeds). 
 


[6] As the negligence
and premises liability allegations are identical and the liability of
landowners is governed by general negligence principals (Demurrer p. 7, citing Pineda
v. Ennabe (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1407), the court will provide a
consolidated analysis. (See also Demurrer p. 7, citing Kaufman & Broad
Bldg. Co. v. City & Suburban Mortg. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 206, 215
[Where only one set of operative facts is pled, based on the same primary right
and same primary duty, courts properly hold that the additional ‘causes of
action’ are in reality only additional counts based on the same obligation and
thus the same cause of action.].) 


[7] Sexton addressed
the exception to the general rule that in the
absence of statute a landowner is under no duty to maintain in a safe condition
a public street abutting upon his property. “There is, however, an exception to this rule, and plaintiff claims that
the evidence brings this case within that exception. It has been held that an
abutting owner is liable for the condition of portions of the public sidewalk
which he has altered or constructed for the benefit of his property and which
serve a use independent of and apart from the ordinary and accustomed use for
which sidewalks are designed.” (Sexton, supra, 39 Cal.2d at p. 157.) Peters
similarly discussed the law with respect to the liability of a property
owner for the condition of the sidewalk adjoining his property. (Peters,
supra, 41 Cal.2d at p. 423.) Thus, both cases focus on the duty to maintain
portions of a sidewalk which have been altered for the benefit of the
property runs with the land. Here,
however, a sidewalk is not at issue (and sidewalks are intended to be
used by pedestrians and the public) such that it is unclear whether the cases
are instructive. 
 


[8] Defendant does not appear to dispute that the
semi-truck is or was owned by Defendant. 

