  Case Number:  23PSCV03238    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
WC Homes,
LLC’s DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with 30 days
leave to amend.  
 
Background
 
This is a
premises liability case. 
 
On October
19, 2023, Plaintiff Jerry Lobo filed suit against WC Homes LLC[1]
for (1) general negligence and (2) premises liability arising from an incident
on 1/26/2021 wherein Plaintiff “entered Defendant’s property”[2]
and “fell into the adjacent flood wash.” Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
“failed to maintain adequate fencing on the property” such that it created a
dangerous condition.[3]
 
On February
26, 2024, Plaintiff filed POS, indicating that Defendant was served via
personal service on 2/26/24.
 
On May 3,
2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer. 
 
On May 20,
2024, Defendant filed a ‘REPLY AND NOTICE OF NONOPPOSITION TO DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT’ indicating
that the opposition due on 5/16/24 has not been received. 
 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an untimely opposition.[4]
 
On May 22,
2024, Defendant filed ‘SUPPLEMENTAL REPLY AND REQUEST TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S
UNTIMELY OPPOSITION TO DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT.’
 
On May 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed a ‘DECLARATION OF HENRY JOHN MATUSEK RE: UNTIMELY
FILED OPPOSITION TO DEMURRER.’ 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Defendant
brings forth the demurrer pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e) and (f)
which provides that a demurrer may be asserted when the pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and the pleading is uncertain
(“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible), respectively. A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear
on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.[5] (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
Section 430.41 requires a demurring party to engage in a specified meet
and confer process with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached as to the filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer.
 
Here, WC Homes
attempted on several occasions to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel as
to the deficiencies in the Complaint. However, Plaintiff’s counsel refused to
provide any substantive response. In Opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel states
that he did communicate with Defense counsel did “not address our theory
of liability and proceeded forward with the instant demurrer.” (Opp. p.
7:10-13.) While the parties may have spoken via phone (on 4/15/24, Robin
Decl.), Plaintiff’s opposition does not delineate that any substantive discussions
were had about the legal merits of the claims. For any future filing, even if the motion does not require
a meet and confer effort, the court requires that the parties meet and confer
and that, even if the parties conferred telephonically, that Plaintiff provide
a detailed letter, with citation to authority and an analysis, as to why
Plaintiff disagrees with Defendant’s position. This letter should be
attached to any subsequent motion and/or demurrer filed. 
 
Discussion[6]
 
Defendant
demurs on the grounds that it does owned, possess or control the public wash.
Instead, the WC Homes property is adjacent to the San Bernardino County flood
wash which is owned by the County of San Bernardino. (Demurrer p. 3.) 
 
The Court of
Appeals in Lorenzen-Hughes v. MacElhenny, Levy & Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1684 discussed the requirements for premises liability. (Demurrer
p. 5.) “Our high court emphasized that ‘we have
placed major importance on the existence of possession and control as a basis
for tortious liability for conditions on the land,” instead of whether one's
negligence was active or passive.’” (Id. at p. 213, quoting Preston
v. Goldman (1986) 42 Cal.3d 108, 119.) Accordingly, “ownership and control
[is] a fundamental requirement for ascribing liability.”
(Ibid.) “Preston therefore views possession
and control as an indispensable requirement on which to predicate liability.”
(Lorenzen-Hughes, supra, 24 Cal.App.4th at p. 1688.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff fell into the “adjacent wash,” which tacitly concedes the
public property is not owned, controlled, nor possessed by WC Homes. (Demurrer
p. 6.) Similarly, there is fencing and assuming, though unclear from the
pleading that the fencing was not adequate/properly maintained, the fence at
issue is embedded into the concrete wash itself as part of the County of San
Bernardino’s property. 
 
Thus, as this
incident happened off-site, Defendant cannot be liable.  
 
To the extent
an opposition is filed, it largely recites the legal standard without
addressing any of Defendant’s arguments and cases. However, Plaintiff does briefly argue that “California
law is well established that a private defendant’s acts on its own land or on
adjacent public land, when done for its own benefit can create a dangerous
condition for which the private party is liable.” (Opp. p. 5, citing Sexton
v. Brooks (1952), 39 Cal. 2d 153, 157; Peters v City and County of San
Francisco (1953) 41 Cal.2d 419.)[7]
Plaintiff relies upon a photo where in a “semi-tractor backed allo [sic] the
way to the adjacent flood control channel to the point of knocking down part of
the safety fence on the wall of the food control wash.” (Opp. p. 7.)
 
In reply,
Defendant does not address/refute the case law. But Defendant points out that
the photo that was allegedly taken on April 2022, which is after the
alleged incident, suggesting it is an irrelevant argument. (Reply p. 5.)[8]

 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, both parties are
making arguments beyond the four corner of the pleadings or even those
subject to judicial notice.
(A photo is not subject to judicial notice and Defendant’s argument that WC
Homes’ property was vacant land at the time of the alleged incident in 2021 is not
supported by a document that is subject to judicial notice.) 
 
Therefore, as
the complaint does not patently fail as a matter of law and the pleading
could use additional facts and clarity, the court sustains the demurrer with
leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend. 


