  Case Number:  21STCV00208    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, June 04, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV00208
CASE NAME:                        Virginia Pech-Torres v. Windsor Cheviot Hills, LLC, et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Virginia Pech-Torres
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendants Modern HR, Inc.; Today’s
HR, Inc.; Kevin Jones; Nancy Rosas; and Jeff Huang
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Reconsideration
of the February 27, 2024, Order 
OPPOSITION:                        16 April 2024
REPLY:                                  22
April 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration of the
February 27, 2024, Order is denied. Plaintiff to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This
action arises out of the employment of Virginia Pech-Torres’ (“Plaintiff”) with
Defendants CPE HR, Inc. (“CPE HR”) and Windsor Cheviot Hills, LLC. (“Windsor”).
 Plaintiff alleges that on August 30,
2018, she injured her wrist when she was assisting a patient. Plaintiff
allegedly informed both Defendant Kevin Jones (“Jones”) and Director of Nursing
Eva Cameron about her wrist injury but they ignored her.  The Complaint also alleges that in early
September 2019, Plaintiff had to visit the emergency room due to pregnancy
complications and subsequently informed Defendants, Nancy Doe (“Doe”) and Jeff
Huang (“Huang”) about these complications. Plaintiff requested light duty because
of her pregnancy complications, but Defendants Doe and Huang allegedly
intentionally refused to accommodate her.
 
The
Complaint alleges twenty causes of action: (1) actual/perceived disability
harassment in employment in violation of the Fair Housing Employment Act
(“FEHA”), (2) actual/perceived disability discrimination in employment in
violation of FEHA against Windsor and CPE HR, (3) actual/perceived disability
retaliation in employment in violation of FEHA against Windsor and CPE HR, (4)
failure to engage in the good-faith interactive process in violation of FEHA,
(5) failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of the FEHA
against Windsor and CPE HR, (6) violation of the California Family Rights Act,
(7) violation of the California Pregnancy Disability Leave Law (“PDLL”), (8)
sex/gender harassment in employment in violation of the FEHA against Windsor,
CPE HR and Jones , (9) sex/gender discrimination in employment in violation of
the FEHA against Windsor and CPE HR, (10) sex/gender retaliation in employment
in violation of the FEHA against Windsor and CPE HR, (11) race/national origin
harassment in employment in violation of the FEHA against Windsor, Jones and
CPE HR, (12) race/national origin discrimination in employment against Windsor
and CPE HR, (13) race/national origin retaliation in employment in violation of
the FEHA against Windsor, CPE HR, (14) harassment, discrimination, retaliation
and/or expulsion for reporting patient abuse in employment in violation of the
FEHA against Windsor and CPE HR, (15) whistleblower retaliation against Windsor
and CPE HR, (16) failure to provide meal and rest periods against Windsor and
CPE HR, (17) failure to pay overtime wages against Windsor and CPE HR, (18)
violation of Business and Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq. against Windsor and
CPE HR, (19) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (20) injunctive
relief- physical disability discrimination in employment in violation of the
FEHA against Windsor and CPE HR.
 
On
September 2, 2021, the court granted Windsor and CPE HR’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings. 
 
On
August 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Lift the Stay and Proceed against
Defendants Huang and Jones (hereinafter “Individual Defendants”). Defendants
Windsor
and CPE HR (collectively “Entity Defendants”) filed opposing papers on August
16, 2023. Plaintiff filed a reply on August 22, 2023. 
 
The
court continued the hearing after receiving Windsor Cheviot Hills, LLC’s filed
a notice of stay of proceedings due to bankruptcy. On December 30, 2023, the
court stayed the action as to Defendants Windsor Cheviot Hills, LLC and CPE HR,
Inc. but lifted the stay as to individual Defendants Huang and Jones. 
 
On December 22, 2023,
Defendants Modern, Inc., Today’s HR, Inc., Kevin Jones, Nancy Rosas, and Jeff
Huang (collectively “Defendants”) moved for an order compelling Plaintiff to
arbitrate her claims against them. On February 27, 2024, the court granted Defendants’
Motion. 
 
Plaintiff now moves for
reconsideration of the February 27, 2024, Order. Defendants oppose the Motion.
The matter is now before the court. 
 
motion for
reconsideration
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
¿CCP § 1008 states in relevant part:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
(a) When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court
that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the
prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(b) A party
who originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or
in part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent
application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure
to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may
be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion.¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(c) If a
court at any time determines that there has been a change of law that warrants
it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and
enter a different order.¿ 
¿ 
(d) A
violation of this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as
allowed by Section 128.7. In addition, an order made contrary to this section
may be revoked by the judge or commissioner who made it, or vacated by a judge
of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending.¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(e)¿This
section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section. . . .¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Plaintiff requests reconsideration of this court’s
February 27, 2024, Order which granted Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
and found that Jones and Huang had not waived the right to compel arbitration
of Plaintiff’s claims. The primary basis for which this court granted
Defendants’ February 2024 Motion to Compel arbitration was that the agency
exception applied to the dispute. (See Order 2/27/2024.) 
 
Previously, the court found a valid agreement to arbitrate exists
between Plaintiff and the Entity Defendants, CPE HR, Inc. (“CPE HR”) and
Windsor Cheviot Hills, LLC. (“Windsor”). (See Order 9/2/21.)  The court found that although Plaintiff
disputed being provided with a copy of the Arbitration Agreement policy terms,
she did not dispute that she signed the Arbitration Agreement. (Ibid.)
The court noted that the Alternative Dispute Resolution Policy (the “ADR
Policy”) applied to all disputes between Plaintiff and Windsor and/or its
outsourced Human Resources provider CPE HR or any of their respective employees
or officers. (Ibid.)
 
On February 27, 2024,
the court granted the Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action brought
by Defendants Modern HR, Inc., Today’s HR, Inc., Kevin Jones, Nancy Rosas, and
Jeff Huang.  Plaintiff specifically
requested that the court find that Individual Defendants Jones and Huang waived
their right to compel arbitration due to Defendants’ prior refusal to submit to
arbitration. (See Order 2/27/2024.) The court denied Plaintiff’s request, finding that Jones and
Huang had not waived the right to compel arbitration. (See Order 02/27/2024.) 
 
The court now finds that Plaintiff’s Motion
for Reconsideration is deficient. One of the explicit requirements for reconsideration under CCP
§ 1008(a) is that “[t]he party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”  The
Declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Zachary Wagner, relitigated points as to
why the court should find that Defendants Jone and Huang waived the right to
compel arbitration but fails to lay out new or different facts, circumstances,
or law would warrant reconsideration. (See e.g. Wagner Decl.)
 
The court also finds that Desert
Regional Medical Center, Inc. v. Miller
(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 295 (Desert) is not “new law”, as the decision was
published in 2022, and was not “new” at the time Plaintiff filed her opposition
on February 13, 2022, or at the time the original hearing was held. Desert
stands for the proposition that when California law applies “to the determination of whether the court or arbitrator has
jurisdiction over the issue of waiver,” “[t]he usual
federal rule of waiver [that] does not include a prejudice requirement”
does not apply. (Id. at pp. 314, 322.) The Desert, “case is
distinguishable from Morgan in that the instant case
concerns state statutory rights and law, rather than rights asserted under
federal law.” (Id. at p. 322.) Accordingly, the argument that
the court should have considered the prejudice to Plaintiff if the motion to
compel was granted is an argument Plaintiff should have raised in her
opposition or at the hearing. Moreover, the fact that the prejudice factor weighs
in favor of Plaintiff does not negate this court’s finding that the other
five St. Agnes/Peterson factors favored Jones and Huang. (See Order 2/27/2024
at p. 4.) 
 
On reply, Plaintiff’s counsel presents evidence that
Defendant CPE HR has admitted that Defendant Jones and Huang are not its agents.
(Wagner Supp. Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A (CPE HR, Inc.’s responses to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admission, Set One, Nos. 1 and 2).)  “‘[P]oints
raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered,
because such consideration would deprive respondent of an opportunity to
counter the argument.’ ” (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 128 Cal.App.4th 1522,
1538 citing American Drug Stores v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446,
1453.) Even if the court were to consider CPE
HR, Inc.’s responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Plaintiff has failed to show that Individual Defendants
Jones and Huang were not agents of employer Windsor. Thus, Jones and Huang
remain entitled to compel arbitration under the agency exception. Should
Plaintiff present evidence that Individual Defendants Jones and Huang are not
agents of Windsor, and the agency exception does not apply, Plaintiff may
refile a motion for reconsideration under CCP § 1008(e). 
 
For the
reasons set forth above, the court denies Plaintiff’s Motion. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Reconsideration of the February 27, 2024, Order is denied. Plaintiff to give
notice.
 