..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number:  23STCV03001
Plaintiff's Name: Felix Pfeifle
Defendant's Name: Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc.
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc.
Places: 
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements: 
```

Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge is continuing the hearing on the Motion to Dismiss for Forum Non-Conveniens filed by Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. (Specially-Appearing Defendant) and will hold an evidentiary hearing on the matter. The Judge is not making a final ruling at this time due to insufficient evidence.

The Judge notes that Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. has not made a general appearance in the case, as it has not filed an answer, demurrer, or motion to strike, and has not participated in any discovery or other procedures that would indicate it recognizes the jurisdiction of the Court. Instead, Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. has questioned the jurisdiction of the Court throughout the case.

The Judge also notes that there is a dispute over whether Plaintiff Felix Pfeifle signed a forum selection clause, with Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. providing evidence that the standard version of the form Plaintiff signed comes in double-sided quadruplicate, with the signature block on the front of the form and the forum selection clause on the back of the form. However, Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. did not provide an image of the exact form that Plaintiff allegedly signed.

The Judge will allow the Parties to submit evidence at the evidentiary hearing in support of or against the contention that the form Plaintiff allegedly signed included the forum selection clause at issue.
