 Case Number:  23STCV03001    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Dismiss for Forum
Non-Conveniens
 
Moving
Party: Specially-Appearing Defendant Alltrust Moving
and Storage, Inc.
Resp.
Party:    Plaintiff
Felix Pfeifle
 
        
The Motion is CONTINUED. An evidentiary
hearing on this matter shall be held on __________. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On February 10, 2023, Plaintiff Felix Pfeifle filed his Complaint
against Defendant Alltrust Moving and Storage, Inc. on causes of action arising
from Plaintiff’s use of Defendant’s moving services. 
 
On August 14, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant filed
its Motion to Dismiss for Forum Non-Conveniens (“Motion”). Specially-Appearing
Defendant concurrently filed its Proof of Service. 
 
On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to
the Motion. Plaintiff concurrently filed his Declaration. 
 
On September 20, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant
filed its Reply regarding the Motion. Specially-Appearing Defendant
concurrently filed its Proof of Service. 

 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day
of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for
good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: . . . (2) To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of
inconvenient forum.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(2).)
 
“When a court upon motion of a party or
its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action
should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss
the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).)
 
“The provisions of Section 418.10 do not
apply to a motion to stay or dismiss the action by a defendant who has made a
general appearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (b).)
 
II.       Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant moves the Court
to dismiss or stay this action in order to enforce a forum selection clause.
(Motion, p. 9:11–13.) 
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant argues: (1)
that federal transportation laws govern this dispute; (2) that there is a valid
forum selection clause designating the Miami-Dade Florida Court as the
appropriate forum; (3) that Plaintiff had sufficient notice of the forum
selection clause as a matter of law; (4) that a motion to stay or dismiss on
the basis of inconvenient forum is the proper mechanism by which to enforce a
forum selection clause in these circumstances; (5) that Plaintiff cannot meet
the burden of establishing the existence of extraordinary circumstances that
would justify a refusal to enforce the forum selection clause; (6) that the
forum selection clause was reasonably communicated; (7) that consent to the
forum selection clause was not obtained by fraud or overreaching; (8) that
enforcement of the forum selection clause is not unreasonable or fundamentally
unfair; and (9) that Plaintiff’s choice of forum is entitled no weight.
(Motion, pp. 3:12, 4:20–21, 5:6–7, 5:25, 6:4–6, 6:14–16, 6:25, 7:15–16, 8:1–2,
9:1.)
 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion, only arguing:
(1) that Specially-Appearing Defendant cannot move to dismiss on the ground of
inconvenient forum because it has made a general appearance; and (2) that
Plaintiff never saw, signed, or received the forum selection clause.
(Opposition, pp. 2:10–24, 3:2–3.)
 
In its Reply, Specially-Appearing Defendant:
(1) argues that it has not made a general appearance in this action; and (2)
provides, via the attached declaration, further documentation regarding the
forum selection clause. (Reply, p. 1:22 and Decl., Exhs. 1–2.)
 
B. 
    Whether
Defendant Previously Made a General Appearance
 
1. 
    A Chronology
of this Case
 
Aside from the filing of the Motion, nothing
substantive has yet occurred in this matter. No answer, demurrer, or other
motions have been filed, nor is there any record of discovery having occurred. 
 
According to the Court’s records, these are
the relevant items that have occurred in this matter:
 
(1)      
On
February 27, 2023, the Court issued a Notice of Case Management Conference for
a Case Management Conference to be heard on June 14, 2023;
 
(2)      
On
June 14, 2023, the Court issued a Minute Order that continued the Case
Management Conference to August 22, 2023;
 
(3)      
Also
on June 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Continuance of Case Management
Conference, which noted that “[n]o one appeared for Defendants” (Plaintiff’s Notice
of Continuance, p. 1:23);
 
(4)      
On
August 14, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant filed this Motion;
 
(5)      
On
August 18, 2023, the Court issued a Notice of Case Management Conference for
the continued Case Management Conference to be heard on August 22, 2023;
 
(6)      
Later
on August 18, 2023, the Court issued a Notice Re: Continuance of Hearing and
Order, in which the Case Management Conference was further continued to
September 5, 2023;
 
(7)      
On
August 29, 2023, the Court entered a Stipulation made by the Parties to further
continue the Case Management Conference until September 28, 2023 — which
notably chose that date “so that it can be conducted at the time of the hearing
on the Specially Appearing Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss” (Stipulation, p.
2:1–3);
 
(8)      
On
September 14, 2023, both Parties filed Case Management Statements, and it is
notable that while Specially-Appearing Defendant did not label itself
“Specially Appearing Defendant” in its statement, it did on six occasions
reference what it believes to be the jurisdictional issue at issue
(Specially-Appearing Defendant’s Case Management Statement, Items 4.b, 5, 6.b,
15, 18, 19); 
 
(9)      
Also
on September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Opposition and Declaration regarding
the Motion; 
 
(10)   
On
September 18, 2023, the Court continued both the Case Management Conference and
the hearing on the Motion to October 25, 2023 due to the Court’s
unavailability, without changing the original briefing schedule for the Motion;
and
 
(11)   
On
September 20, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant filed its Reply regarding the
Motion. 
 
Plaintiff now argues that Specially-Appearing
Defendant made a general appearance in this matter because it filed a Case
Management Conference Statement on September 14, 2023. (Opposition, p.
2:16–19.) According to Plaintiff, Specially-Appearing Defendant is thus no
longer able to file this Motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section
418.10. (Ibid.)
 
The Court considers whether Plaintiff’s
argument is correct. 
 
2. 
    Case
Law on When General Appearance
 
“A defendant appears in an action when the defendant answers,
demurs, files a notice of motion to strike, files a notice of motion to
transfer pursuant to Section 396b, moves for reclassification pursuant to
Section 403.040, gives the plaintiff written notice of appearance, or when an
attorney gives notice of appearance for the defendant. After appearance, a
defendant or the defendant’s attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent
proceedings of which notice is required to be given. Where a defendant has not
appeared, service of notice or papers need not be made upon the defendant.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1014.)
 
“[I]t has long been the rule in California that a party
waives any objection to the court's exercise of personal
jurisdiction when the party makes a general appearance in the action.” (Roy
v. Super. Ct. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 337, 341, citation omitted.)
 
“A general appearance occurs where a party, either directly
or through counsel, participates in an action in some manner which recognizes
the authority of the court to proceed. It does not require any formal or
technical act.” (Mansour v. Super. Ct. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1750, 1757,
citations omitted.)
 
“An
attorney's appearance for a party at a hearing can also result in a general
appearance.”
(Mansour, supra, at p. 1757, citation omitted.)
 
“The case management
evaluation procedure is intended to expedite the resolution of lawsuits by
allowing the trial court to establish a schedule for discovery and law and
motion matters, set a mandatory settlement conference and trial date and
consider the possibility of using alternative dispute resolution methods. The
process is thus premised on the trial court having jurisdiction over the
parties participating in it.” (Mansour, supra, at p. 1757,
citation omitted.)
 
“In 2002, the Legislature added subdivision (e) to section 418.10. (See Stats. 2002, ch. 69, § 1.)
Under subdivision (e), a defendant may move to quash and
‘simultaneously answer, demur, or move to strike the complaint or
cross-complaint’ and ‘no act’ by a party who first makes a motion to quash,
‘including filing an answer, demurrer, or motion to strike,’ constitutes an
appearance ‘unless the court denies the motion.’ (§ 418.10, subd. (e)(1).) If the court denies the motion,
the defendant is deemed to have generally appeared on ‘entry of the order
denying the motion.’ (Ibid.) If the party whose motion to quash is denied files a
timely petition for writ of mandate, ‘the defendant or cross-defendant is not
deemed to have generally appeared until the proceedings on the writ petition
have finally concluded.’ (§ 418.10, subd. (e)(2).)” (State Farm Gen. Ins. Co. v. JT’s Frames, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 429, 440.)
 
“The
Legislature added subdivision
(e) to section 418.10 in
order to simplify procedures and reduce the risk of an inadvertent submission
to jurisdiction. Subdivision
(e) prevents the inadvertent waiver
of objections to jurisdiction by delaying recognition
of the party's general participation in the litigation until after the
jurisdictional issue is finally resolved. A
party may answer, demur, move to strike and perform other actions related to
the merits without fear of accidentally waiving a potentially meritorious
attack on personal jurisdiction. However, subdivision
(e) does
not change the essential rule that a defendant submits to the court's
jurisdiction by making a general appearance in an action by participating in
the action in a manner which recognizes the court's jurisdiction. It merely delays the effect of such
actions until the motion to quash is denied or, if the defendant seeks writ
review, until proceedings on the writ have concluded. Once the motion is denied
or writ proceedings have concluded, the actions undertaken by the defendant
while the motion or writ was pending that recognized the trial court's
jurisdiction will be deemed to constitute a general appearance, and no further
objection to jurisdiction will be permitted.” (State Farm Gen. Ins. Co.,
supra, at p. 441, cleaned up; see also id. at p. 441, fn. 13.)
 
“In addition to the cases noted previously, it had also been
held that merely asking the court for the continuance of a hearing constituted
a ‘general appearance’ even where the party has filed a motion to quash
service.” (Roy, supra, 127 Cal.App.4th at p. 342, fn. 4,
citing In re Marriage of Smith (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 543, 548.)
 
3. 
    Discussion
 
Prior to filing the Motion, Specially-Appearing
Defendant did not: (1) file an answer, demurrer, or motion to strike at any
point in this litigation, much less prior to filing the Motion at hand; (2)
appear on June 14, 2023, which was the original date for the Case Management
Conference; (3) request a continuance of the original date for the Case
Management Conference; or (4) engage in discovery or other procedures that
would indicate it recognizes the jurisdiction of the Court. 
 
Everything else that occurred in this matter
occurred after Specially-Appearing Defendant filed its Motion on August 14,
2023. 
 
On August 29, 2023, which was the only time
Specially-Appearing Defendant requested and/or stipulated to a continuance, it
clearly did so as a specially-appearing defendant. And on September 14, 2023,
when Specially-Appearing Defendant filed its Case Management Statement, it
clearly and repeatedly questioned the jurisdiction of the Court, even though it
did not specifically use the term “Specially-Appearing Defendant” when
describing itself. 
 
“The determination of special
appearance versus general appearance is based on the ‘character of the relief
sought,’ not by statements of intention of the party.” (In re D.R. (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 583, 593, quoting Slaybaugh v. Super. Ct. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d
216, 221.)
 
“If an appearance is for any purpose other than to question
the jurisdiction of the court, it is general.” (Sunrise Fin., LLC v. Super.
Ct. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 114, 125, cleaned up.)
 
There has at no time been any indication from
Specially-Appearing Defendant that it recognizes the jurisdiction of the Court.
Rather, Specially-Appearing Defendant has only questioned the jurisdiction of
the Court, including in the character of its Case Management Statement. 
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant has not
generally appeared in this matter. 
 
C. 
    Whether
Plaintiff Signed the Forum Selection Clause
 
In its Motion, Specially-Appearing Defendant
provides the Court with a form that is signed by Plaintiff. (Motion, Exh. A.)
As shown in Exhibit A to the Motion, the page with the forum selection clause
is different from the page with Plaintiff’s signature. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff does not dispute the vast majority
of arguments made by Specially-Appearing Defendant. Instead, Plaintiff only
contends that he never saw, signed, and/or received documentation that
contained the forum selection clause. (Opposition, p. 2:21–24;  Decl. Pfeifle, ¶¶ 4–7.)
 
In its Reply, Specially-Appearing Defendant
provides, via the attached declaration, further documentation regarding the
forum selection clause. (Reply, Decl., Exhs. 1–2.) Specially,
Specially-Appearing Defendant has shown that the standard version of the form
Plaintiff signed comes in double-sided quadruplicate, where each of four
identical copies has the signature block on the front of the form and the forum
selection clause on the back of the form. (Ibid.). However,
Specially-Appearing Defendant did not provide the Court with an image that
shows the double-sided nature of the exact form that Plaintiff allegedly
signed. 
 
Instead of immediately making a final ruling
on insufficient evidence, the Court will hold an evidentiary hearing on this
matter. The Parties may submit evidence at the hearing in support of or against
the contention that the form Plaintiff allegedly signed included the forum
selection clause at issue. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion is CONTINUED. An evidentiary
hearing on this matter shall be held on _______________. 
 
 