  Case Number:  23PDUD04191    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 5,
2024

MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23PDUD04191

 



MP:  


Magdy Melika (Defendant)




RP:  


9001 Chevy Chase, LLC (Plaintiff)



 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
9001 Chevy Chase, LLC
(Plaintiff) brings this unlawful detainer action for unlawful detainer against Magdy
Melika (Defendant). The property in question is 1009 Apt. C East Chevy Chase
Drive Glendale, CA 91205 Plaintiff states they served a 60-day Notice to Quit
on Defendant on September 19, 2023, indicating Plaintiff’s intent to substantially
remodel the premises. (Keshishian Decl., Exh. 1.) 
 
Defendant now moves
for summary judgment, arguing this matter was brought before the Court
unlawfully. Defendant claims that Plaintiff did not comply with the notice
requirements laid out under the Glendale Municipal Code. Plaintiff opposes the
motion. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to¿any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff’s action is one
for unlawful detainer. In order to prevail on a motion for summary judgment,
Defendant must produce evidence which is dispositive of an essential element of
Plaintiff’s unlawful detainer claim. 
 
C.C.P. § 1161(1) provides a
tenant is guilty of unlawful detainer for a tenancy at will when he or she (1)
continues in possession of the property, or any part thereof, after the
expiration of the term for which it is let to the tenant, (2) provided the expiration
is of a nondefault nature, and (3) notice of termination is provided as
prescribed in the Civil Code. 
 
Here the relevant portion
of the Civil Code is § 1946.1, which requires 60-day notice of termination to
be provided to a tenant who has resided at a property for a period of longer
than 12 months. Civil Code § 1946.2 (b)(2)(D) provides that “intent to demolish
or to substantially remodel the residential real property” is a valid no-fault
cause for issuance of a notice of termination. However, Civil Code § 1946.2
does not apply where it is preempted by a local just cause ordinance. Here, the
relevant local just cause ordinance is Glendale Municipal Code § 9.30.030.
 
The thrust of Defendant’s
argument in his motion for summary judgment is that the 60-day Notice to Quit
issued by Defendant is invalid because it did not have permits attached to it
as required by Glendale Municipal Code § 9.30.031(A), which reads as follows: 
 
The landlord shall serve on the tenant a written notice setting
forth the reasons for the termination with specific facts to permit a
determination of the date, place and circumstances concerning the reason. This
notice shall be given in the manner prescribed by California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1162 and may be combined with a written notice of termination
of tenancy or as a separate written notice. For purposes of Section
9.30.030(G), at the time that the landlord serves the notice to vacate, the landlord
shall also serve the permit to demolish the unit or the permit for capital
improvements, along with any construction estimates and schedule for performing
the work.
 
Glendale Municipal Code §
9.30.031(G) governs notices to quit issued to demolish or improve rental units
and requires that “such works costs not less than the product of eight times
the amount of the monthly rent times the number of rental units upon which such
work is performed.” 
 
Defendant’s argument that
the permits and estimates required by Glendale Municipal Code § 9.30.031(A) is
unclear. Defendants argument reads as follows: 
 
Plaintiff never served the proper documents to the Defendant, and
the case documents are unlawful, and the 60 Days’ Notice is INVALID, as
Plaintiff never attached permits to Notice as they falsely claimed in 2nd
page of their Notice as they should but attached a False Estimate, Per Glendale
CA Municipal Code Title9 Public Peace &Welfare: Chapter 9.30 Just Cause
&Retaliatory Evictions
 
(Mot. p. 7, ¶ C.)
 
It is not clear from this
statement whether Defendant contends nothing was attached to the 60-day Notice
to Quit, or whether Defendant contends the permits/construction estimates
attached were falsified. The Court notes that Defendant’s declaration contains
no statement regarding the permits/construction estimates. As such, there is no
evidentiary showing before the Court indicating that the permits/construction
estimates were not attached. Further, to the extent that Defendant argues these
documents are false, such allegations necessarily raise a triable issue of
fact. 
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiff’s Complaint, as well as their exhibits in opposition to this motion,
contain copies of the permits and construction work order to be completed on
the building. (See Keshishian Decl., Exh. 2.) Plaintiff includes permits to
install recessed lighting and install new units, as well as a construction
estimate to replace the windows and completely remodel/rewire each unit. The
total per unit cost in the construction estimate totals $97,000. (See Id.)
Defendant does not evidence what the current rent of the unit is, but Plaintiff
states it is $1,336.00 per month. (Keshishian Decl. ¶ 7.) It appears the
construction estimates greatly exceed the amount of rent multiplied by eight as
required by Glendale Municipal Code § 9.30.031(G).
 
In short, the Court finds
the evidence in this case does not establish that there is no triable issue of
fact as to Plaintiff’s action for unlawful detainer. Defendants arguments that
Plaintiff have falsified repair estimates do not serve as evidence which
defeats an essential element of Plaintiffs claim for unlawful detainer.
Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Magdy Melika’s Motion
for Summary Judgment came on regularly for hearing on
February 5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for
said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and
there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
February 5, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 