 Case Number:  23STCV03484    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling: 
Defendant Equity
Residential Management, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
Defendant Equity
Residential Management, LLC (Equity) moves to strike three portions of the
first amended complaint by plaintiffs Tadeh Davtian, Lauren Gordon, and
Gabriella Mitry.  Courts may strike a
“demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.”  (CCP § 431.10(b)(3).)  
Equity
moves to strike portions of the first amended complaint regarding punitive
damages.  Courts may strike allegations
related to punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level
of” the legal standard applicable to recover punitive damages.   (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
53, 64.)  Conclusory allegations are not
enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
Plaintiffs
seek punitive damages for violations of the Investigative Consumer
Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA).  Under
ICRAA, plaintiffs may recover punitive damages “[i]f the court determines that
the violation was grossly negligent or willful.”  (Civ. Code, § 1786.50(b).)  
Plaintiffs
allege sufficient facts to constitute gross negligence.  “Gross negligence” requires “either a ‘want
of even scant care’ or ‘an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct.’ ”  (City of Santa Barbara v.
Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 754.) 
 “Whether
a lack of due care constitutes gross negligence is generally a question of
fact.”  (Joshi v. Fitness
International, LLC (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 814, 825.)
The first amended complaint alleges, “Plaintiffs
applied for housing at” three different apartment communities and “completed a
mandatory multi-page ‘Application,’ which included a release of information permitting
the Defendants to get private and personal information from third parties about
the Plaintiffs.”  (¶ 21.)  Equity “required Plaintiffs to complete” the
application and “consent to a release of information.”  (¶ 23.) 
Plaintiffs further allege Equity “then requested and obtained
investigative consumer reports about the Plaintiffs from Defendant TransUnion
Rental Screening Solutions, Inc.”  (¶
22.)  
Plaintiffs allege Equity did not comply with
various requirements under ICRAA, such as providing “a consent form or
disclosure with a box to check” (¶ 31), providing “a copy of any of the reports
prepared” to the plaintiffs (¶ 32), or notifying plaintiffs of “the ‘name and
address of the investigative consumer reporting agency that will prepare the
report.’ ”  (¶ 34.)  Plaintiffs further allege, “Defendants Equity
Residential Management, LLC and TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions, Inc.
were aware of the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA) prior
to committing the above violations and were on notice that their conduct was
clearly unlawful and committed the above violations anyway.”  (¶ 38.) 

On these allegations, gross negligence is a
question of fact that cannot be resolved on the pleadings.  Plaintiffs allege Equity knew its process for
evaluating potential tenants violated ICRA, but Equity continued to employ that
unlawful process.  Reasonable minds could
conclude that constituted a want of even scant care or an extreme departure
from the ordinary standard of conduct.  
Equity’s reliance on Anderson v. Fitness International.,
LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 867 is misplaced. 
Equity relies on the court’s statement “[m]ere nonfeasance, such as the
failure to discover a dangerous condition or to perform a duty, amounts to
ordinary negligence.”  (Id. at
p. 881, internal quotes omitted.)  There,
the plaintiff sued a gym after slipping and falling in the shower.  (Id. at p. 871.) 
The defendant moved for summary judgment based on a waiver that barred
claims for negligence—but not gross negligence. 
(Id. at p. 874.) 
The court reasoned that “oily and soapy residue” on a gym’s shower room
floor was not “an extreme departure from conditions one would expect.”  (Id. at p. 882.) 
The court further noted the plaintiff did not allege defendant “engaged
in any conduct to actively increase the risk inherent its shower facility.”  (Ibid.)  The court
concluded plaintiff only alleged defendant “failed to mitigate, guard against,
or warn of a dangerous condition, which is insufficient to support a theory of
gross negligence, as opposed to ordinary negligence.”  (Ibid.)   
In this case, plaintiffs allege facts showing
Equity created the risk or condition that harmed them.  The first amended complaint alleges Equity actively
“requested investigative consumer reports about” plaintiffs (FAC, ¶ 28) without
meeting various requirements under ICRAA (¶¶ 31-37).  Unlike slippery residue on a tile shower
floor, there is nothing inherent about the condition that allegedly harmed
plaintiffs.  Equity created it.  And plaintiffs allege Equity knew its conduct
was illegal but did it anyways.          
Disposition
            Defendant Equity Residential
Management, LLC’s motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint is denied.  Defendant Equity Residential Management, LLC
shall answer the first amended complaint within 20 days. 