 Case Number:  23TRCV04082    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Monday,
April 29, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            K.J., et al. v. McDonald’s Corporation, et al.
            23TRCV04082
1.      McDonald’s
Corporation, et al.’s Demurrer to Complaint
2.      McDonald’s
Corporation, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            McDonald’s Corporation, et al.’s Demurrer to Complaint is
overruled, in part, and sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part. 
 
            McDonald’s Corporation, et al.’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Complaint is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on December 6, 2023. While
at McDonald’s in Harbor City, Plaintiff K.J., a minor, was attacked by another
patron of McDonald’s. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action. 1.
Premises Liability 2. Negligence 3. Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision and
Retention 4. Assault and Battery 5. Negligence Against Defendant Ariana Lauifi
6. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendants set forth meet and confer declarations in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5. (Decls., Mark P.
LaScola.)
 
Demurrer
 
Defendants demur to the first through third causes of
action for failure to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
First Cause of Action for Premises Liability
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.
Plaintiff states sufficient facts to state a cause of action.
 
“To state a cause of action for negligence, a
plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2)
the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the
plaintiff's damages or injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013)
221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62. “The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence. Accordingly, the plaintiff must
prove, legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as
the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” Jones v. Awad
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Plaintiff argues that a landowner or possessor has a
duty to protect persons on their premises from third party criminal acts.  See, Ohara v. Western Seven Trees Corp. (1977) 75 Cal.App.3d 798.  A duty to take affirmative action to control
the conduct of a third party will only be imposed when it is foreseeable that
the conduct would occur.  See, Ann M. v. Pac. Plaza Shopping Center
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674-76. Here, Plaintiff failed to plead facts
to demonstrate that Defendants had any reasonable cause to anticipate the
occurrence of the alleged assault and battery committed by co-Defendant Lauifi.

 
However, Plaintiff has stated sufficient facts to
allege the imposition of a duty of care upon demurring Defendants with an
alternative theory.  In Morris v. De
La Torre (2005) 36 Cal.4th 260, the Court held that a restaurant proprietor
owed a duty of care to summon aid for an invitee who was attacked outside the
restaurant. The plaintiff was injured by third parties while the restaurant
employees watched from inside failing to call 911 or summon any other type of
aid. The Court stated that the foreseeability analysis was different than the
one outlined in the previous paragraph as it involved a duty to respond
reasonably to on-going criminal conduct as opposed to anticipating potentially
criminal conduct.  In Ann M. v.
Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666 and cases following Ann
M., the duty analysis involved steps that the proprietor potentially could
have done to prevent future criminal conduct. The Court also held that a
special relationship exists between the proprietor and patrons or customers as
well as invitees. Thus, because the defendant had a special relationship with
plaintiff, defendant owed an obligation to respond to ongoing criminal conduct
by undertaking such “appropriate action as is reasonable under the
circumstances” to protect plaintiff and other patrons and invitees. Id.
at 274. While there is no blanket duty to call 911, there was a duty to take
whatever reasonable measures would be appropriate under the circumstances with
respect to delivering aid which generally would include calling 911.  Id. at 275. 
 
Here, in the instant case, Plaintiff has alleged facts
that employees of Defendant merely stood by and did nothing while witnessing
the on-going attack.  In fact, after the
attack, Plaintiff alleges that the employees simply took the perpetrator’s
order as if nothing had happened. (Complaint, ¶¶ 27-29.)  Thus, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts
to allege a duty of care.  Plaintiff has
alleged that Defendant breached the duty of care by failing to summon the
appropriate type of aid.  (Id. at ¶¶ 27-29,
36, 42, 43.)  Plaintiff has alleged facts
of causation and damages. (Id. at ¶¶ 44-46.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has stated sufficient facts to state a
cause of action. The demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.

Second Cause of Action for Negligence
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against demurring Defendants.  
 
The elements of negligence are the existence of a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, causation, and damages.  See
McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671. The factual allegations and theory of liability are simply
duplicative of the first cause of action for Premises Liability which is, as
noted above, a form of negligence. It appears unlikely that Plaintiff will be
able to state an alternative distinct theory of negligence separate and apart
from the theory noted above.  However,
the Court will allow one opportunity to amend since the pleading at issue
currently is only the original Complaint.
 
Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Third Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Training,
Retention, and Supervision
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state sufficient
facts to state a cause of action.
 
As to the third cause of action, the Court recognizes
the following authority. “An employer may be liable to a third person for the
employer's negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or
unfit. Liability for negligent hiring ... is based upon the reasoning that if
an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger
to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by
the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees. Negligence liability will
be imposed on an employer if it knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes. California follows the rule set forth in the Restatement Second
of Agency section 213, which provides in pertinent part: ‘A person conducting
an activity through servants or other agents is subject to liability for harm
resulting from his conduct if he is negligent or reckless: ... [¶] (b) in the
employment of improper persons or instrumentalities in work involving risk of
harm to others[.]’ Liability for negligent ... retention of an employee is one
of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.” Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133. 1139 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
“One who employs another to act for him is not liable
... merely because the one employed is incompetent, vicious, or careless. If
liability results it is because, under the circumstances, the employer has not
taken the care which a prudent man would take in selecting the person for the
business in hand.... [¶] Liability results ... not because of the relation of
the parties but because the employer antecedently had reason to believe that an
undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment.” Federico v. Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1210,
1213-14. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to
demonstrate that Defendants had any advance knowledge of the unfitness of any
of its employees. Plaintiff alleges no facts to support the conclusion that
Defendant had reason to believe that an unreasonable risk of harm existed in
the hiring of any of its employees. In addition, there are no facts that
Defendants negligently trained any of its employees. Only conclusions are set
forth. 
 
In fact, the allegations that attempt to support this
cause of action appear to be made simply on information and belief. (Complaint,
¶ 31.)  “[P]laintiff may allege on
information and belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge,
if he has information leading him to believe that the allegations are true and
thus a pleading made on information and belief is insufficient if it merely
assert[s] the facts so alleged without alleging such information that lead[s]
[the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are true.”  Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159 (internal citations and quotations are
omitted; emphasis in original.) As to the allegations that were made on
information and belief, Plaintiff has failed to allege a sufficient factual
basis for her belief that the matters alleged on information and belief are
true.
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the third cause of action
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 

 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike the following allegations on
page 15, Prayer for Relief, ¶ 5, which reads as follows: “For punitive and/or
exemplary damaged in an amount appropriate to punish Defendants and deter
others from engaging in similar misconduct;”
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
(c) As used in this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
To state a claim for punitive damages, Plaintiff must
allege specific facts rather than conclusions that Defendants’ conduct
constitutes oppression, fraud, or malice. Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872. Here, Plaintiff has failed to state sufficient specific
facts to allege that Defendants acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally,
and/or recklessly to support Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. Only
conclusory allegations are set forth attempting to inflate the existing
allegations which merely support negligent conduct. In addition, Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts to meet the requirements of Civ. Code § 3294(b)
regarding imposition of punitive damages against an employer.
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.