  Case Number:  22SMCV01886    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to withdraw from arbitration in this wage
and hour/PAGA case. 
 
Defendant successfully compelled arbitration of plaintiff’s
individual claim in this case pursuant to an arbitration agreement—indeed,
plaintiff did not oppose the arbitration demand.  The arbitration was to be before JAMS.  What followed was a confusing set of
notifications by JAMS.  
 
On February 17, 2023, JAMS sent an initial invoice.  It obligated plaintiff to pay an initial
deposit of $400 and defendant to pay an initial deposit of $1600.  These were required to begin the
arbitration.  It appears that both
parties paid that invoice in a timely way and the arbitrator was appointed on
March 27, 2023.  At that time, another
invoice was sent, this time for $12,000 payable by the defense.  It appears that defendant timely paid that
invoice.
 
On February 2, 2024, JAMS issued another invoice.  This one was for $29,832 and was payable by
the defense.  The invoice was “due upon
receipt.”  Under the law, defendant had
30 days to make the required deposit. 
Defendant’s payment was therefore due on March 1, 2024 (or perhaps a day
or so later if the invoice was not actually sent on 2/2/24).  On February 5, 2024, JAMS sent a Notice of
Hearing.  That notice stated that all
fees had to be paid by May 4, 2024, to proceed with the hearing.  It attached the February 2, 2024, invoice.
 
After the March 1, 2024, date had passed, plaintiff’s
counsel called JAMS to see if defendant had made the payment and was told that
the payment had not been made.  On March
7, 2024, plaintiff wrote to the defense and said it was withdrawing from
arbitration.  Defendant wrote back later
that day noting the May 4, 2024, payment deadline.  JAMS then said that the Notice of Hearing was
in error.  On March 8, 2024, JAMS sent a
new invoice (apparently replacing or attempting to replace the February 2, 2024
invoice) dated March 7, 2024.  The notice
was accompanied by a letter from JAMS stating that the prior Notice of Hearing
was premature and that the wrong notice was attached.  A new Notice of Hearing—this time dated March
7, 2024, was attached to the JAMS letter. 
As just stated, it included the prior invoice, but this time it was
dated March 7, 2024 (which would make it due on April 6, 2024).  Defense counsel wrote to plaintiff on March
8, 2024, noting that the February 2, 2024, invoice was sent in error and thus
was not reliable.  Plaintiff responded by
stating that there was nothing wrong or ambiguous about the February 2, 2024,
invoice and that defendant was still in breach. 
Defendant wrote back that day and said that the February 2, 2024,
invoice was sent in error, and that issues of waiver were for the arbitrator to
decide.  Defendant in fact paid the
invoice on March 11, 2024.  In its reply
papers, plaintiff attached an email from JAMS dated February 3, 2024, attaching
the February 2, 2024, invoice.  The email
also said payment was due upon receipt. 
Defendant objects to the reply evidence as untimely.
 
Plaintiff contends that the February 2, 2024, invoice was
proper and started the clock.  According
to plaintiff, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98(a), if
payment is not made timely (which generally means 30 days according to the
statute) then the matter must be restored to the civil calendar on plaintiff’s
demand and plaintiff is entitled to its fees. 
Plaintiff notes that the time cannot be extended by JAMS, but rather is
set by statute once the invoice is sent. 
Defendant argues that the FAA preempts the statute in question and thus
the court should consider the matter according to traditional waiver
principles.  Under such an analysis,
defendant contends (and this court agrees) no waiver could be found.  Alternatively, defendant states that a
revised notice was issued on March 7, 2024, and defendant paid that revised
invoice timely.
 
CCP section 1281.98 states that “in an employment or
consumer arbitration that requires . . . the drafting party pay certain fees
and costs during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding, if the fees or
costs . . . are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party
is in material breach of the arbitration agreement.”  The statute goes on to provide that in that
circumstance, the non-drafting party may withdraw from the arbitration as of
right.
 
The court must agree with plaintiff here, albeit somewhat
reluctantly.  As to FAA preemption, the
court is unsure what it would do were it writing upon a clean slate.  But it is not.  The Court of Appeal has at least twice opined
that the statute is not preempted.  (Hohenshelt
v. Superior Court (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 1319; Cvejic v. Skyview Capital,
LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1073.)  The
court is aware of no California appellate authority to the contrary.  Under Auto Equity, the court is bound
by those precedents and the court therefore holds in conformity with those
decisions that the FAA does not preempt the statute.  Those cases also hold that the arbitration
entity cannot extend the statutory time period. 
Thus, once the invoice issued, assuming it was not improper to issue it,
the clock started running.  The court has
looked at the February 2, 2024, invoice and it sees no infirmity.  If that invoice was not improper, the March
11, 2024, was not timely.
 
The court is aware of the Notice of Hearing procedure and
what it means.  By the time of the
hearing, much more work likely would have been done, including procedural
hearings and perhaps even substantive ones. 
As a result, the payments already made would have to be augmented.  JAMS, likely having been burned in the past,
has a policy that its invoices be paid up before the substantive hearing and
there needs to be money on hand to cover the anticipated hearing expenses.  And that is what the Notice of Hearing
meant.  It was not an extension for the
prior invoice; it was the deadline by which the parties had to be current if
they wanted a trial to go forward including any future invoices that might be
sent.  The February 2, 2024, invoice
could well reflect only a deposit toward what would be the bill incurred for
the arbitration—in other words, the work may well not yet have been done.  But that is no moment.  It says what it says, which is that it is due
upon receipt.
 
The court is somewhat perplexed by the notion that JAMS
claims that the February 5, 2024, Notice of Hearing was sent in error or that
the February 2, 2024, invoice was sent in error.  If it was truly sent in error and recalled,
that would be one thing.  But the court
has no competent evidence of such a fact. 
Rather, it appears that JAMS recognized the confusion that it caused and
attempted, in a practical manner, to rectify the problem by sending a new
invoice and re-starting the clock with clarity. 
Doing so is laudable, but ultimately not effective.  Because the court sees nothing wrong with the
original invoice, JAMS had no ability to recall the invoice and re-issue it to
re-start the clock.  The clock, once
properly started, cannot be stopped.  The
court is aware that JAMS stated that the invoice was in error, but the
statement is hearsay and even if it were not it would not suffice without some
explanation as to why that might be. 
That is especially so in that the March 7, 2024, revised Notice of Intent
attaches an identical invoice with an identical statement that an identical
payment is due upon receipt with the only difference being the invoice
date.  In other words, it would be one
thing if JAMS stated that the invoice was wrongly calculated and was
withdrawn.  That could stop the clock,
maybe even after the fact.  However,
there is no such explanation nor can the court reasonably infer one from the
evidence submitted.  In this way,
plaintiff’s reply evidence bolster’s the court’s view—the email suggests that
there was no error in the February 2, 2024, invoice—but it is hardly
dispositive and the court need not rely on it. 
If defendant really wants an opportunity to reply to it, the court will
discuss the matter, but the court does not deem that evidence to be motion
dispositive.  In short, once an invoice
is sent, absent some proof or explanation that it was truly sent by mistake,
the court agrees that the 30 day clock starts to tick under the statute.  If payment is not made, the statutory
remedies kick in.
 
Nor does the court believe that the question is for JAMS to
decide.  The statute seems to place that
issue in the court’s lap, and that makes sense. 
The court agrees that it must decide the matter.  The unpublished Ninth Circuit case does not
persuade the court and the court is not bound by it.  And the court believes that the holding in Cvejic,
which stated that the trial court was correct in deciding the issue of whether
the waiver applied supports the notion that the matter is for the court not the
arbitrator, although the court recognizes that it would be too strong to say
that Cvejic actually held that the decision was non-delegable.  In any case, the statutory language also
seems to compel the conclusion that the matter is for the court to decide, not
the arbitrator.
 
Defendant also states that the breach is not material.  As the court noted earlier, were this to be
decided under what this court views as normal contract law, the court would
agree.  But the statute expressly states
that the failure to make the payment within 30 days is material.  The Legislature has therefore made that
determination and case law does not allow the court to rule to the contrary.
 
Finally, defense counsel attempts to invoke section
473.  That statute has no effect
here.  The case is not dismissed; it is
merely changing venue.  Defendant has all
of its substantive defenses available to it. 
Thus, while the court has some sympathy for the defense given the way
this came about, the statutory language is clear and unambiguous and case law
supports enforcement of the statute without judicial revision.  The court is bound by the Legislature’s
policy choices unless they are unconstitutional or preempted by federal
law.  Based on binding precedent, the
court holds that the statute is not preempted, and the court sees no other
ground upon which the statute might be unconstitutional under the California or
United States Constitutions.  Given that,
the court does not believe that section 473 offers defendant an escape
hatch.  The statute will be enforced
according to its terms.
 
As to sanctions, the court believes that although the
statute states that fees are recoverable, the confusion here makes such an
award inequitable.  Were it up to the
court, the court would not impose fees. 
But the statute’s language gives the court no discretion here.  The imposition of fees is mandatory.  The fees sought are $13,885.  The court has reviewed the fee
declaration.  The hourly rate is
reasonable.  However, unless plaintiff
takes the position that the discovery done in arbitration has no effect on the
instant case and must be re-done (which would be an unreasonable position, in
the court’s view), the time spent on discovery is equally attributable to the
instant court case.  The court does not
believe that the Legislature intended those fees to be recovered as that would
be punitive in nature and the court has discretion under the statute whether or
not to award a punitive sanction.  (It
should be plain that the court exercises its discretion not to make such an
award.)  The fee aspect of the motion is
therefore DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
Plaintiff may bring a fee request that includes fees that are unique to
the arbitration, which would include (perhaps among other things) time spent
determining whether to stipulate to the arbitration, the time attending any
arbitration hearings and conferences (including time to prepare for them), and
the time related to the withdrawal.  
 
However, the motion to withdraw from the arbitration is
GRANTED.  The court will set a CMC.