  Case Number:  23STCV01636    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  73 11/05/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
EGERER, et al. v. UNIVERSITY OF
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, et al. (23STCV01636)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/moving party:  Robert
Vaage (Vaage Law)
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  Stephen
Fraser (Fraser Watson & Croutch, LLP)
 
MOTION BY DEFENDANTS UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, ANISHKA
D'SOUZA, M.D. AND LESLIE BALLAS, M.D. FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR ALTERNATIVELY
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 03/25/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
January 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Steven Egerer and Gail Egerer filed this action
against Defendants University of Southern California; Anishka D’Souza MD;
Leslie Ballas MD; Kevin G. Jacob RN; Michelle S. Buluran, RN; and Does 1-25. 
 
The operative
First Amended Complaint alleges claims for (1) professional/medical negligence,
(2) lack of informed consent, (3) negligent misrepresentation, (4) fraud by
intentional misrepresentation, (5) fraud by concealment, and (6) loss of
consortium.  
 
This case
arises from a medical malpractice and misrepresentation claim.  Plaintiff
Steven Egerer (“Plaintiff” or “Mr. Egerer”) was diagnosed with bladder
cancer.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶ 13.)  He sought treatment
at Defendant USC and specifically with Defendants Dr. Leslie Ballas and Dr.
Anishka D’Souza.  (FAC ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs allege that while under
Defendants’ care he suffered chemotherapy overdose. (FAC ¶ 29.) As a result of
the overdose, Plaintiff has and continues to suffer from permanent injuries. 
As a further result of the overdose, Plaintiff’s treatment options for his
cancer have been limited.  (FAC ¶ 30.)     
 
Plaintiffs
dismissed Kevin G. Jacob RN and Michelle S. Buluran, RN.     
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendants University of Southern California, Anishka
D’Souza, MD and Leslie Ballas, MD (“Defendants”) filed the instant MSJ, or alternatively
MSA, arguing:
·       Issue 1: Medical Malpractice - Defendants’ care and treatment of
Plaintiff complied with the Community Standard of care 
o   In this case, the Declaration of John Glaspy, M.D. provides competent
expert testimony as to the applicable standard of care
·       Issue 2: Medical Malpractice - to a reasonable degree of medical
probability there is nothing that defendants did or failed to do that caused or
contributed to injury to Plaintiff
o   The Declaration of John Glaspy, M.D. provides competent expert testimony stating
that Defendants did not cause or contribute to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries
o   Because Mr. Egerer's personal injury action is without merit, so too is
Mrs. Egerer's action for loss of consortium.
·       Issue 3: The lack of informed consent claim is without merit.
o   Plaintiff did provide informed consent for the procedure at-issue
·       Issues 4-6: As both a part of the summary judgment, and then separately,
defendants seek summary adjudication in its favor of the claims for fraud. The
third cause of action is for Negligent Misrepresentation, the fourth cause of
action is for fraud by intentional misrepresentation and the fifth cause of
action is for fraud by concealment.
o   Plaintiff was not a candidate for the particular medical treatment he
claims was withheld from him; therefore, it was proper for defendants not to
discuss that treatment with him, no breach of duty occurred and therefore no
fraud was committed.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that:
·       Defendants’
motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication is primarily based on the
Declaration of John A. Glaspy, M.D., and his opinions that Defendants complied
with the standard of care and that Defendants’ conduct did not cause or
contribute to any harm or injury to Mr. Egerer. As set forth below, Plaintiffs
have submitted the Declaration of Judy L. Schmidt, M.D., F.A.C.P. (“Dr.
Schmidt”), in support of their opposition to Defendants’ motion. 
·       Dr. Schmidt’s
declaration and the evidence in this case demonstrate that triable issues of
material fact exist as to Defendants’ compliance with the applicable standards
of care in rendering treatment to Mr. Egerer including, but not limited to, the
obvious medical mistakes that caused Mr. Egerer to be connected to the wrong
chemotherapy pump at the wrong infusion rate, thereby causing a chemotherapy
overdose.
·       Dr. Schmidt’s declaration and the evidence in this case raise triable
issues of material fact regarding Defendants’ fraud related to the existence of
an antidote, Vistogard, and their failure to administer or offer the antidote
to Mr. Egerer. 
·       Dr. Schmidt’s declaration also establishes triable issues of material
fact with regard to the cause, nature and extent of Mr. Ergerer’s injuries from
the overdose.’
·       Plaintiffs object to Defendants’ deficient separate statement as to the
third, fourth and fifth causes of action. Defendants fail to cite to specific
undisputed material facts.
 
Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·       Plaintiffs fail to raise triable issues of material fact as to all causes
of action, including as to medical negligence and as to intentional tort causes
of action, fraud by intentional misrepresentation and fraud by concealment.
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.  In determining if the papers show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all
of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which
objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2); see also, Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.  But… the defendant must indeed present
evidence."  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in original].)   “In other words, all that
the defendant need do is to show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot
prove element¿X.”  (Id., at 853.) The court in Aguilar
distilled summary judgment to “a single proposition:  If a party moving
for summary judgment in any action . . . would prevail at trial without
submission of any issue of material fact to a trier of fact for determination,
then he should prevail on summary judgment.  In such a case . . . the
‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and “avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’
by nonsuit or directed verdict or similar device.  (Id. at
855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar, “the party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at 850.)  Thus, courts usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify
the issues framed by the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether
the moving party’s showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s
claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion
prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to determine
whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Ojavan Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing parties must present substantial evidence in order to
avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative
value that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe
the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of
granting the motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v.
Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation
omitted.)  “The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues
of fact. The court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.    
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court take judicial notice of the following: (1) Label: VISTOGARD
(uridine triacetate) oral granules (Initial U.S. Approval: 2015); (2) Label:
FLUOROURACIL (5-FU).
 
The Court may take judicial notice of official legislative,
executive, and judicial acts. (Evid. Code § 452(c).) The Court may also take
judicial notice of “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452(h).)
 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice.
 
C.    
Objections to Evidence
 
The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ objections to evidence as follows:
 
Objection
Nos. 1-8: Overruled.
 
D.    
Allegations in the FAC
 
Plaintiff
Steven Egerer (“Plaintiff” or “Mr. Egerer”) was diagnosed with bladder
cancer.  (FAC ¶ 13.)  He sought treatment at Defendant USC and
specifically with Defendants Dr. Leslie Ballas and Dr. Anishka D’Souza. 
(FAC ¶ 14.)   
 
Plaintiff was
to be treated with chemotherapy infused through a PICC line, attached to a
chemo ball containing the drug, at a rate of 2 ml per hour over five
days.  This was done on January 19, 2022.  (FAC ¶¶
14-15.)   
 
On February
3, 2022, Plaintiff returned for a second round of chemotherapy which was to
have been delivered the same way at the same rate.  (FAC ¶ 16.) 
However, Plaintiff alleges that Nurses Kevin Jacob and Michelle Balluran
instead attached a 5mL chemo ball to his PICC line.  The next day,
Plaintiff noticed his chemo ball was completely empty and that therefore he had
received the entire 240 mL dose in less than 15 hours.  (FAC ¶¶
18-19.)  Plaintiff reported the empty chemo ball to USC radiation oncology
staff, who told Plaintiff not to worry because the oncology doctors knew what
they were doing.  (FAC ¶ 20.)   
 
Plaintiff’s
adverse symptoms continued to worsen over the next two days.  He became
nauseous and vomited several times.  He had dizziness and needed his
wife’s assistance to walk.  He had extremely painful urination and severe
stomach pain and diarrhea.  He also had shortness of breath, a headache
and burning in his stomach.  (FAC ¶ 21.) 
 
On February
7, 2023, Plaintiff returned to the chemotherapy department for a blood
draw.  Plaintiff told Nurse Rebecca Amezcua that his chemo ball emptied
over 15 hours, and the nurse immediately notified Drs. Ballas and
D’Souza.  (FAC ¶ 22.)  On the same day, Plaintiff met with Drs.
Ballas and D’Souza who told him there were no studies on chemotherapy overdose
including its side effects and there was no antidote.  (FAC ¶ 25.) 
The medical records failed to note many of the overdose related symptoms that
Plaintiff suffered and made no reference to a chemotherapy overdose.  (FAC
¶ 27.)   
 
Plaintiff’s
overdose-related symptoms persisted.  (FAC ¶ 28.)  With worsening
symptoms and no information from Defendants, Plaintiff contacted the American
Cancer Society.  He learned for the first time that there were in fact
studies on chemotherapy overdose and that the antidote for overdose is Vistogard,
which must be administered within 96 hours of the overdose.  He also
learned there were studies identifying the anticipated side effects from the
chemotherapy overdose.  (FAC ¶ 29.) 
 
As a result
of the overdose, Plaintiff has and continues to suffer from permanent
injuries.  As a further result of the overdose, Plaintiff’s treatment
options for his cancer have been limited.  (FAC ¶ 30.)     
 
E.    
First Cause of Action: Professional/Medical Negligence
 
Defendants move for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ medical negligence cause of action on the
grounds that Defendants met the standard of care at all times during the care
and treatment of Mr. Egerer.
Further, none of Defendants’ alleged negligent acts or omissions were a
proximate cause of Mr. Egerer’s
claimed injuries and damages.
 
The
elements of medical malpractice are: “(1) the duty of the professional to
use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.” (Simmons
v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02
(citations omitted).) “Both the standard of care and defendants’ breach
must normally be established by expert testimony in a medical malpractice
case.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)
 
Thus,
in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within
the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985
(citations omitted).)  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider. (Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14
Cal. App. 3d 988, 999.)
 
Defendants contend that its expert witness, John Glaspy,
M.D. ("Dr. Glaspy"), establishes that Defendants University of Southern California, Anishka D'Souza, M.D., and
Leslie Ballas, M.D., all complied with the applicable
standard of care in treating Mr. Egerer. Dr. Glaspy provides the following
testimony: 
 
"Plaintiff's presentation in the
days following the second infusion of 5-FU, from February 4 through February
14, 2022, did not indicate acute toxicity, and therefore did not indicate the
need for administration of an antidote, namely Vistogard, as he did not meet
the criteria for its use, i.e.,
displaying signs of acute toxicity, including oral or
extremity sores and/or cardiac/nervous system issues, within 96 hours of the
completion of the 5-FU infusion.” (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 25.)
 
“Further, the administration of
Vistogard would have been detrimental to plaintiff's care and treatment as it
would have negated the beneficial cancer-fighting components of the 5-FU
infusion. It would have also negated plaintiff's expressed preference to
undergo chemotherapy rather than surgery, thereby requiring him to undergo the
surgery he had come to USC to avoid.” (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 25.)
 
“It is further my opinion that ANSHKA
D'SOUZA, M.D. and LESLIE BALLAS, M.D. complied with the standard of care when
they provided plaintiff with his further treatment options on February 8, 2022,
despite not offering the plaintiff Vistogard as an option, as this is a valid
expression of a physician's professional judgement because Vistogard was not
indicated.” (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 26.)
 
“Also, to a reasonable degree of
medical probability, the side effects described by plaintiff were no more
severe than those that could be experienced by any patient undergoing similar
chemoradiation therapy.” (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 27.) 
 
“It is also my opinion that the
plaintiff was not "overdosed" as has been asserted, as the 5-FU
dosage given on February 3, 2022, of 5,250 mg in a 240mL solution, even if
given over 48 hours, (5mL/hr rate would completely administer in 2 days) is
similar to doses given routinely for other types of cancer at similar doses and
rates (colon cancer regime that provides 3000 mg over 46 hour infusion).
Accordingly, plaintiff was given a common dosage, even at the alleged
"overdose" rate, which is not a dosage which would result in the type
of harm alleged by plaintiff.” (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 28.) 
 
“Further, it is my opinion that
plaintiff's current reporting of fatigue and other illnesses, per his
Complaint, are not a result of this more rapid infusion on February 3, 2022, as
a rapid infusion of 5-FU causes a different set of injuries, which include
mouth sores and cardiac/neurologic damage. Instead, it is more likely that the
alleged injuries are a result of his ongoing cancer diagnosis and subsequent
chemotherapy after treating at USC KECK." (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 29.)
 
Therefore, Dr. Glaspy opines that to a reasonable degree of
medical probability, the care and treatment rendered to Mr. Egerer by Defendants
complied with the standard of care in the community and did not cause or
contribute to Mr. Egerer’s alleged injuries. (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 30.) The Court finds Dr. Glaspy’s declaration is sufficient to
show that Defendants did not breach their duty of care and satisfies Defendants’
prima facie burden to show that this element cannot be established. 
 
Next, the
burden shifts to Plaintiffs to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact. 
 
First,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ expert, Dr. Glaspy’s, testimony must be
disregarded. Plaintiffs argue that Dr. Glaspy failed to set forth his
qualifications, and specifically that Dr. Glaspy failed to establish special
knowledge, skill, experience, training and education regarding 5-FU overdose
and its symptoms. Plaintiffs also point out that Dr. Glaspy failed to
attach his Curriculum Vitae.


In
some cases, where the subject matter is particularly esoteric, the lack of
specific facts in the expert declarations setting forth the expert’s expertise
can be fatal to the admissibility of the expert’s opinion. (See, e.g., Salasguevara
v. Wyeth Laboratories, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 386.) However, in
this case, Dr. Glaspy’s barebones declaration appears to be enough. Dr. Glaspy is
board-certified in Internal Medicine, Medical Oncology, and Hematology, and is
affiliated with the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA. (Glaspy Decl. ¶ 2.)
It is reasonable to assume that Dr. Glaspy’s background and training in Medical
Oncology, Hematology Oncology, Internal Medicine and Hematology would be
sufficient to familiarize him with the standard of care exercised by other doctors
in the community related to 5-FU overdose and its symptoms. (See Mann v.
Cracchiolo (1985) 38 Cal.3d 18, 37-38 [a practicing surgeon and
neurosurgeon would, as a matter of law, be familiar with the standard of care
exercised by radiologists in reading X-rays and preparing reports because the
surgeon himself would have regularly read X-rays and radiologist reports, even
when the surgeon failed to set forth foundational facts to qualify himself to
testify about the standard of care], overruled on other grounds by Perry v.
Bakewell Hawthorne, LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536.) Therefore, the Court does
not disregard Dr. Glaspy’s testimony on this basis. 
 
Next, Plaintiffs
provided testimony by their expert witness, Judith Schmidt, M.D. ("Dr. Schmidt"),
a physician and medical oncologist board certified in Internal
Medicine, Hematology, and Medical Oncology by the American Board of Internal
Medicine. (Schmidt Decl. ¶ 1.) Expert opinion testimony is required to prove a defendant
healthcare provider did not meet the standard of care and was thus negligent. (Massey
v. Mercy Medical Center Redding (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 690, 694-95.) Here,
Dr. Schmidt opines that Defendants breached the applicable
standard of care in treating Mr. Egerer and that the negligent, reckless and intentional conduct of Defendants
were a substantial factor in causing Mr. Egerer’s injuries. (Schmidt Decl. ¶¶
21, 22, and 25.) Dr. Schmidt states she disagrees with Dr. Glaspy’s testimony.
While Dr. Glaspy testifies that Mr. Egerer’s presentation following the second
infusion did not indicate acute toxicity and the need for administration
of an antidote, namely Vistogard, Dr. Schmidt testifies that: 
 
“Mr. Egerer was given 5250 mg of 5-FU in 15 hours rather than the
planned 120 hours due to the incorrect infusion rate. He received 350 mg/hr
instead of 43.75 mg/hr, which is consistent with an overdose. He experienced
acute toxicity. According to the Mayo Clinic and the Vistogard package insert
as approved by the FDA in 2015, Vistogard is recommended for patients with a
5-FU overdose “regardless of the presence of symptoms.” The Mayo Clinic noted
in their review, that many overdose patients do not show immediate signs and
symptoms of their overdose. The Mayo Clinic also found that a 5-FU infusion
rate exceeding approximately 260 mg/hr was found to be lethal in both
historical cohort studies and 2 compassionate use studies with Vistogard. (See
Mayo Clinic article, attached as Exhibit 12 to the Notice of Lodgment, Ma,
W.W., et al., “Emergency Use of Uridine Triacetate for the Prevention and
Treatment of Life-Threatening 5-Fluorouracil and Capecitabine Toxicity,” Cancer
345:356 (Jan 15, 2017).” (Schmidt Decl., ¶ 19.)
 
“As documented in my interviews with
Mr. Egerer, he experienced 9 grade 2 side effects and 12 grade 3 side effects
acutely after the 5-FU overdose. His usual performance status of 0 (fully
active) fell to 3 (capable of only limited self-care; confined to the bed or
chair more than 50% of waking hours). He thought he would die. As of October 4,
2024, Mr. Egerer describes 9 ongoing NCI CTCAE grade 3 side effects and 9 grade
2 toxicities. His ECOG PS remains lower at 1-2. Although the neuropathy was
pre-existing the 5-FU overdose, the nature of the neuropathy has changed and is
now described as severe and affecting his hands and feet. (See January 5, 2022
USC Norris Cancer Hospital Radiation Oncology Consultation by Leslie Ballas, MD
, attached as Exhibit 2 to the Notice of Lodgment.) Mr. Egerer has grade 3
chronic PTSD from the traumatic medical “harrowing” 5-FU overdose. Mr. Egerer
more likely than not has radiation enteritis and radiation cystitis (shown on
recent cystoscopy) from the 5-FU overdose he received while undergoing bladder
radiation. The 5-FU was more likely than not a substantial contributing cause.
Fatigue is a common chronic symptom after cancer therapy. The depression and
insomnia he had after the traumatic overdose and the PTSD are likely contributing
to his fatigue.” (Schmidt Decl., ¶ 21.)
 
Dr. Schmidt
also opines that Dr. D’Souza and Dr. Ballas each had a duty to inform Mr.
Egerer of the existence of an antidote, Vistogard, and to offer Vistogard as a
treatment option. Instead, Dr. D’Souza and Dr. Ballas concealed this
information from Mr. Egerer and violated the standard of care under the
circumstances of this case. (Schmidt Decl., ¶ 23.) She testifies that if Dr. D’Souza and Dr. Ballas felt
that Mr. Egerer was not a candidate for the Vistogard, they had a duty to
discuss their opinions with Mr. Egerer and allow him to decide. (Schmidt
Decl., ¶ 24.)
 
Dr. Schmidt states that to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, “the failure of both Dr. D’Souza and Dr. Ballas to offer and
administer Vistogard to Mr. Egerer was a substantial factor in causing Mr.
Egerer’s harm and was reckless and done in a way that consciously disregarded
the rights, health, and safety of their cancer patient, Mr. Egerer. Dr. D’Souza
and Dr. Ballas were aware, or should have been aware, of the probable dangerous
consequences of failing to administer Vistogard to a patient who had received
at least eight (8) times the prescribed dose of 5-FU.” (Schmidt
Decl., ¶ 23.)
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs have presented sufficient evidence raising a triable
issue of material fact with respect to Defendants’ standard of care and
causation. Thus, the Court finds Plaintiffs have carried their
burden. Since Plaintiffs’ medical negligence cause of action survives, the
Court notes that Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action as to Mrs. Egerer’s loss of
consortium claim also survives. 
 
Accordingly, summary
adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for medical negligence is
DENIED. Summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action for loss
of consortium is also DENIED.
 
F.     
Second Cause of Action: Informed Consent 
 
Defendants
move for summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for
informed consent.
 
“A patient’s consent to a medical procedure must be ‘informed.’ A
patient gives an ‘informed consent’ only after [the doctor] has adequately
explained the proposed treatment or procedure. [A doctor] must explain the
likelihood of success and the risks of agreeing to a medical procedure in
language that the patient can understand. [A doctor] must give the patient as
much information as she needs to make an informed decision, including any risk
that a reasonable person would consider important in deciding to have the
proposed treatment or procedure, and any other information skilled
practitioners would disclose to the patient under the same or similar
circumstances. The patient must be told about any risk of death or serious
injury or significant potential complications that may occur if the procedure
is performed. [A doctor] is not required to explain minor risks that are not
likely to occur.” (CACI 532.)
 
The elements for a cause of action failure to obtain informed
consent are: “1. That defendant performed a medical procedure on plaintiff; 2.
That defendant did not disclose to plaintiff the important potential results
and risks of and alternatives to the medical procedure; 3. That a reasonable
person in plaintiff’s position would not have agreed to the medical procedure
if that person had been adequately informed; and 4. That plaintiff was harmed
by a result or risk that defendant should have explained.” (CACI 533.)
 
This duty to provide information extends to the "potential of
death, serious harm, and other complications associated with a proposed
procedure," as well as "such additional information as a skilled
practitioner of good standing would provide under similar circumstances."
(Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d229, 244.) Further, Cobbs holds
that the physician must disclose "all information relevant to a meaningful
decisional process." (Id. At 242.)
 
According to the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to
obtain Mr. Egerer’s informed consent related to: (1) the chemotherapy treatment
with 5-FU and (2) the 5-FU antidote, Vistogard.
 
Defendants argue
that Mr. Egerer did provide informed consent. In support, Defendants submit consultation
notes that reference a discussion of the risks and benefits of chemotherapy between Mr. Egerer and
Dr. D’Souza. (Def’s Ex. C.) Defendants also submit Dr. Glaspy’s expert
testimony, who opines that Defendants did not have a duty to offer or inform
Mr. Egerer about the treatment option of Vistogard because he was not a
candidate for the medication. Dr. Glaspy opines that Plaintiff's presentation
in the days following the second infusion of 5-FU, from February 4 through
February 14, 2022, did not indicate acute toxicity, and therefore did not
indicate the need for administration of an antidote, namely Vistogard, as he
did not meet the criteria for its use, i.e., displaying signs of acute
toxicity, ncluding
oral or extremity sores and/or cardiac/nervous system issues, within 96 hours
of the completion of the 5-FU infusion. (Glaspy Decl, ¶ 25.) It is also Dr.
Glaspy's opinion that the administration of Vistogard would have been
detrimental to plaintiff's care and treatment as it would have negated the
beneficial cancerfighting components of the 5-FU infusion. It would have also
negated plaintiff's expressed preference to undergo chemotherapy rather than
surgery, thereby requiring him to undergo the surgery he had come to USC to
avoid. (Glaspy Decl, ¶ 26.) The Court finds the evidence submitted by Defendants is
sufficient to show that Defendants did not fail to obtain Mr. Egerer’s informed
consent and satisfies Defendants’ prima facie burden.
 
Next, the
burden shifts to Plaintiffs to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Plaintiffs dispute that Dr. D’Souza adequately discussed the risks
and benefits of chemotherapy with Mr. Egerer. Plaintiffs assert that Dr. D’Souza
failed to obtain informed consent from Mr. Egerer for the chemotherapy
treatment plan, failed to provide written information on chemotherapy risks,
benefits and alternatives and failed to provide written information on infusion
pump management and contact information for problems or questions. In support,
Plaintiffs cite to Dr. D’Souza’s deposition testimony, where when asked if she
provided any information to patients like Mr. Egerer concerning the use of the
chemo ball or pump, what to look for in terms of problems with the chemo
ball/pump, or what to report concerning the chemo ball/pump, Dr. D’Souza
testified that she did not. (Plfs’ Exh. 7, D’Souza depo, 29:13-20.) Further,
Plaintiffs provide testimony from their expert, Dr. Schmidt, who opines that Dr.
D’Souza and Dr. Ballas had a duty to inform Mr. Egerer of the existence of an
antidote, Vistogard, and offer Vistogard as a treatment option. If they felt
that Mr. Egerer was not a candidate for the Vistogard, they had a duty to
discuss her opinions with Mr. Egerer and allow him to decide (Schmidt Decl. ¶
23.) As the court held in Cobbs, physicians must disclose "all
information relevant to a meaningful decisional process." (Cobbs,
supra, 8 Cal.3d at 242.) Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have
demonstrated that triable issues of material fact exist as to whether the
standard of care was met by Defendants in obtaining an informed consent from
Mr. Egerer.
 
Accordingly,
summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is DENIED.
 
G.   
Third, Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action: Negligent
Misrepresentation, Fraud by Intentional Misrepresentation and Fraud by
Concealment
 
Defendants
move for summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ third, fourth and fifth causes
of action.
 
“The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To
properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the
names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge
of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Defendants’ separate statement fails to sufficiently
conform with CRC, Rule 3.1350. Pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1350(d),
a Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact must separately identify each
cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that
is the subject of the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350 (d)(1).)  “The separate statement serves two important
functions in a summary judgment proceeding: it notifies the parties which
material facts are at issue, and it provides a convenient and expeditious
vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed facts.” (Collins
v. Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 64, 74.)
 
Here, Defendants’ separate statement fails to
cite to specific undisputed material facts as to Plaintiffs’ causes of action
for Negligent Misrepresentation (Issue 4), Intentional Misrepresentation (Issue
5), and Fraud by Concealment (Issue 6). As to each of these causes of action,
Defendants’ separate statement merely states: “Please see Facts Nos. 1 – 31 and
the Evidence therefor.” Defendants’ Undisputed Material Facts Nos. 1-31 do not
specifically address issues of misrepresentation, concealment or fraud. They
discuss the standard of care and causation, whether there was a need to
administer Vistogard, whether Vistogard was detrimental to Mr. Egerer’s chemotherapy
treatment.
 
As
Plaintiffs contend, this is unfair to the opposing party due to the uncertainty
of identifying which are the relevant material facts the opposing party must
address. The Court agrees. Every motion for summary judgment should be
accompanied by separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all
material facts which moving party contends are undisputed; facts stated
elsewhere need not be considered by court, and failure to comply with rule
constitutes ground for denial at court's discretion. (Fleet v. CBS, Inc.
(1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 1911, 1916.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ third, fourth and fifth
causes of action is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.