  Case Number:  18NWCV00147    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  L Makridis v.  Boulos, et al. CASE NO.: 18NWCV00147   HEARING:  12/17/2024    #2 TENTATIVE ORDER   Claimant Leah M. Watson’s claim of exemption is DENIED.    Judgment Creditor to give notice.    Background   This is an action for breach of contract. On December 10,  2018, Plaintiff George Makridis (“Plaintiff” or “Judgment Creditor”) filed this  action against Defendants Andrew A. Boulos, William Watson, and Rescue One  Ambulance (“Defendants” or “Judgment Debtors”).    On June 5, 2024, the Court entered judgment in the amount of  $1,133,500.00 in favor of Plaintiff George Makridis against Defendants William  Watson, Rescue One Ambulance, and Andrew Boulos.   On October 1, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed the instant  notice of hearing on claim of exemption opposing Judgment Debtor William  Watson’s spouse, Leah M. Watson’s (Claimant), claim of exemption.   Legal Standard   “Within 10 days after service of the notice of claim of  exemption, a judgment creditor who opposes the claim of exemption shall file  with the court a notice of opposition to the claim of exemption and a notice of  motion for an order determining the claim of exemption and shall file with the  levying officer a copy of the notice of opposition and a copy of the notice of  motion. Upon the filing of the copies of the notice of opposition and notice of  motion, the levying officer shall promptly file the claim of exemption with the  court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.550.)   At a hearing on a claim of exemption, “the [judgment debtor]  has the burden of proof” in demonstrating that her wages are exempt for  necessaries. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.580, subd. (b).) In meeting this burden,  the judgment debtor must establish the right by evidence or facts; an affidavit  which merely follows the language of the statute and states nothing more than  conclusions of law is insufficient.¿(Le Font v.¿Rankin¿(1959)¿167¿Cal.App.2d  433, 435.¿Generally, "common necessaries of life" means essentials  commonly required by all persons for the sustenance of life, whatever their  employment status and includes medical care. (J. J. MacIntyre Co. v. Duren  (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d Supp. 16, 18 -19). “If no other evidence is offered, the  court, if satisfied that sufficient facts are shown by the claim of exemption  (including the financial statement if one is required) and the notice of  opposition, may make its determination thereon. If not satisfied, the court  shall order the hearing continued for the production of other evidence, oral or  documentary.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿703.580 subd. (c).)   Discussion   Judgment Creditor has submitted proof of service that a copy  of the notice of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion have been filed with  the levying officer on October 1, 2024. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 703.550, the levying officer filed the claim of exemption with the  Court. Accordingly, Judgment Creditor has satisfied the requirements under  Section 703.550 and the claim of exemption and notice of opposition constitute the  pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.580, subd. (a).)   Judgment Creditor argues its levy was authorized pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 700.160 and the Claimant fails to provide  sufficient evidence to support her claim of exemption.   “A court order is not required to levy on a deposit  account or safe-deposit box standing in the name of…[t]he judgment debtor's  spouse or registered domestic partner, whether alone or together with  other persons, provided an affidavit is delivered to the financial  institution at the time of levy showing that person is the judgment  debtor's spouse or registered domestic partner.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 700.160,  subd. (b).)   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 700.160, Judgment  Creditor properly levied on a deposit account owned by Claimant. The writ named  Judgment Debtor William Watson and a spousal affidavit delivered to the  financial institution named Claimant. (Opposition, p. 3-4; Cuzzolina Decl., ¶ 7.)     In her claim of exemption, Claimant states “Creditor is  seeking to levy a Chase Checking and Savings Account. I am not the Debtor. I am  the Spouse of the Debtor.” (Claim of Exemption, ¶ 7.) On the claim of  exemption, Plaintiff writes “See Attachment 1” in response to the property she  describes as exempt. (Claim of Exemption, ¶ 5.) Attachment 1 in the claim of  exemption lists out the following exemptions related to deposit accounts,  earnings, spouse of judgment debtor earnings, motor vehicles, and household furnishings:  Code of Civil Procedure sections 704.220, 704.225, 704.070, 706.050, 706.051,  704.010 subd. (a), 704.020 subd. (a)(1) and (2), and 704.060 subd. (a). (Claim  of Exemption, Attach. 1.) Claimant’s financial statement indicates her total  monthly income is $4,543.81 and her total monthly expenses are $2,699. Claimant  reports possessing a Chase checking account ($9,254.82), Chase savings account  ($8,025.97), and 2004 Dodge Ram.   Under Code of Civil Procedure section 704.225, “[m]oney in a  judgment debtor's deposit account that is not otherwise exempt… is exempt to  the extent necessary for the support of the judgment debtor and the spouse and  dependents of the judgment debtor.” Under Code of Civil Procedure section  706.051 subd. (b) “the portion of the judgment debtor's  earnings that the judgment debtor proves is necessary for the support  of the judgment debtor or the judgment debtor's family supported in whole or in  part by the judgment debtor is exempt from levy under this chapter.”   Claimant does not provide any additional facts through  evidence or affidavits to support her claim that the Chase savings and checking  accounts are required for the necessaries of life. The amounts in these  accounts, together with Claimant’s monthly earnings, have more than enough to sustain  Claimant’s monthly expenses. Judgment Creditor additionally indicates that Claimant  did not report all her property in the financial statement. (Cuzzolina Decl., ¶¶  8-11.) As explained above, Judgment Creditor properly levied on Claimant’s back  account pursuant to a spousal affidavit received by the financial institution. To  the extent Claimant argues that the levy on the Chase savings and checking  account is improper, the Court finds that Claimant has not met her burden of  showing why her claim is exempt. Due to Claimant’s generalized description of  property she claims to be exempt and list of statutory exemptions, the Court is  unable to discern whether Claimant seeks to exempt any other property.    Accordingly, the Court DENIES Claimant Leah M. Watson’s claim  of exemption for the Chase savings and checking accounts. Given Claimant’s lack  of supporting evidence and affidavits on her claim of exemption, the Court will  hear from the parties and review any additional evidence at the hearing before making  its ultimate ruling.  Makridis v.
Boulos, et al.

CASE NO.: 18NWCV00147

HEARING:  December 17,
2024 @ 10:30 a.m.

 

#2

TENTATIVE ORDER

 

Defendant Andrew A.
Boulos’ Motion to Quash Service of Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination is GRANTED.

 

Defendant to give
notice. 

 

Background

 

This is an action for breach of contract. On December 10,
2018, Plaintiff George Makridis (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Andrew A. Boulos, William Watson, and Rescue One Ambulance
(“Defendants”). On September 22, 2019, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC"). The FAC alleges that Plaintiff Makridis, Defendant
Boulos and Defendant Watson entered into a joint venture, Health
Transportation, Non-Emergency Inc. (“Health Trans”) Defendants promised to
operate and market Health Trans in exchange for Plaintiff’s loan of $621,091.00.
The FAC alleges Defendants ultimately intended to defraud Plaintiff and to
embezzle funds to support Defendant’s own company, Rescue One Ambulance, Inc. The
FAC asserts the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Intentional Interference with Contract; (3) Fraud in the inducement; (4)
Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Conversion; (6) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (7)
Violation of Penal Code, Section 496; and (8) Violation of Business and
Professions Code, section 17200.

 

On June 5, 2024, the Court entered judgment in the amount of
$1,133,500.00 in favor of Plaintiff George Makridis against Defendants William
Watson, Rescue One Ambulance, and Andrew Boulos.

 

On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Application and
Order for Appearance and Examination of Defendant Andrew A. Boulos (“Application”),
setting examination on October 31, 2024 in Department F. On September 16, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Proof of Service for the Application. The examination was
continued pending hearing on this Motion to Quash.

 

Defendant Boulos now moves for an order quashing service of
Plaintiff’s Application. The Motion is unopposed as of December 16, 2024.

 

 

Legal Standard

 

Code of Civil Procedure Section 708.110 states the
following:

 

(a) The judgment
creditor may apply to the proper court for an order requiring the judgment
debtor to appear before the court, or before a referee appointed by the court,
at a time and place specified in the order, to furnish information to aid in
enforcement of the money judgment.

(b) If the judgment
creditor has not caused the judgment debtor to be examined under this section
during the preceding 120 days, the court shall make the order upon ex parte
application of the judgment creditor.

(d) The judgment
creditor shall personally serve a copy of the order on the judgment debtor not
less than 10 days before the date set for the examination. Service shall be
made in the manner specified in Section 415.10. Service of the order
creates a lien on the personal property of the judgment debtor for a period of
one year from the date of the order unless extended or sooner terminated by the
court.

 

Discussion

 

Defendant Boulos argues that the Application was not
properly served. The Proof of Service (“POS”) indicates that Victor Perez
personally served Defendant Boulos with the Application at 6469 Whitelily
Street Corona, CA 92880 (“Corona address”) on September 14, 2024. (POS, ¶¶
5-6.) Defendant Boulos provides evidence that he was in Texas from August 13,
2024 to September 24, 2024, and thus, could not have personally be served. (Boulos
Dec., ¶¶ 3-6.) Further, Defendant Boulos argues he has never had a connection
to the Corona address—he has never lived at the address, does not have family
at the address, and has no knowledge of that property. (Boulos Dec., ¶ 9.) 

 

The Court finds that Plaintiff did not properly effectuate
personal service 10 days prior to the hearing, in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 708.110, subdivision (d). The Court thus has no jurisdiction
over Defendant Boulos to order his appearance and examination at the request of
Plaintiff. Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant Boulos’ Motion to Quash the Application
and Order for Appearance and Examination.

 Makridis v.
Boulos, et al.CASE NO.: 18NWCV00147HEARING:  December 17, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m.  #2TENTATIVE ORDER Defendants’ Motion to
Stay Enforcement of Judgment for Appeal is GRANTED. Defendants to give
notice.  Background This is an action for breach of contract. On December 10,
2018, Plaintiff George Makridis (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Andrew A. Boulos, William Watson, and Rescue One Ambulance
(“Defendants”). On September 22, 2019, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC"). The FAC alleges that Plaintiff Makridis, Defendant
Boulos and Defendant Watson entered into a joint venture, Health
Transportation, Non-Emergency Inc. (“Health Trans”) Defendants promised to
operate and market Health Trans in exchange for Plaintiff’s loan of
$621,091.00. The FAC alleges Defendants ultimately intended to defraud
Plaintiff and to embezzle funds to support Defendant’s own company, Rescue One
Ambulance, Inc. The FAC asserts the following causes of action: (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Intentional Interference with Contract; (3) Fraud in the
inducement; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Conversion; (6) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (7) Violation of Penal Code, Section 496; and (8) Violation of
Business and Professions Code, section 17200. On June 5, 2024, the Court entered judgment in the amount of
$1,133,500.00 in favor of Plaintiff George Makridis against Defendants William
Watson, Rescue One Ambulance, and Andrew Boulos. Defendants now move to stay enforcement of judgment, seeking
an order under to waive the requirement to post a bond prior to filing an
appeal under Code of Civil Procedure section 995.240.  Legal Standard Code of Civil Procedure section 917.1, subdivision (a)(1)
states the following: “Unless an undertaking is given, the perfecting of an
appeal shall not stay enforcement of the judgment or order in the trial court
if the judgment or order is for any of the following: (1) Money
or the payment of money, whether consisting of a special fund or not, and
whether payable by the appellant or another party to the action.” Code of Civil Procedure section 995.240 states the
following: “The court may, in its discretion, waive a provision for a bond in
an action or proceeding and make such orders as may be appropriate as if the
bond were given, if the court determines that the principal is unable to give
the bond because the principal is indigent and is unable to obtain sufficient
sureties, whether personal or admitted surety insurers. In exercising its discretion,
the court shall take into consideration all factors it deems relevant,
including but not limited to the character of the action or proceeding, the
nature of the beneficiary, whether public or private, and the potential harm to
the beneficiary if the provision for the bond is waived.” Discussion Defendants essentially argue that they are indigent and have
been unable to secure collateral for an appeal bond, entitling them to a waiver
from the requirement to post an appeal bond. Defendants assert they have been
informed by a bond specialist and other bond companies that they would need to
post over $2,000,000 in collateral to be approved for a surety bond. (Boulos
Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1; Watson Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendants assert that they do
not have $2,000,000.00 in assets to post. (Ibid.) Defendants also
provide evidence of their indigence in the form of bank statements and IRS and
EDD debts. (Boulos Decl., ¶¶ 3-5, Exhs. 2-3; Watson Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exhs. 2-3.) In opposition, Plaintiff requests a denial, or in the
alternative, a continuance while a proper accounting of Defendants’ assets and
abilities to pay the judgment is pending. Plaintiff notes that Defendant
Boulous has been subpoenaed for a debtors’ examination, and a claim of
exemption, filed by Defendant Watson’s wife, is currently pending. Further, Defendant
Boulos’ community property has not been accounted for, and Defendants have
other unaccounted-for real property. Lastly, Plaintiff notes that Defense counsel’s
law firm lent Defendant Watson $295,000.00 and used a property in North
Carolina as collateral.  In reply, Defendant argue that any unaccounted-for real property
was either sold to pay off debts or has been scheduled for foreclosure sale.
(Boulos Reply Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Watson Reply Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant Watson attests
that he separated from his wife in 2017 and receives no financial support from
her. (Watson Reply Decl., ¶  3.) Watson
argues his only asset owned with his wife is a property in North Carolina, that
is currently in foreclosure. (Watson Reply Decl., ¶ 3-4; Exh. 1.) As to the
purported loan from Defense counsel’s law firm, Defendants argue this is false.
In reality, Defendant Watson attests that Defense counsel’s law firm placed a
lien on his North Carolina property in foreclosure due to unpaid attorney’s
fees in the amount of $295,000.00. (Watson Reply Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendant Watson
will be left with nothing from the foreclosure sale and will still owe the firm
$9,000. (Watson Reply Decl., ¶ 5.) As to Boulos’ community property, Boulos’
wife’s sole piece of property is a 2010 Mercedes E class – a vehicle Boulos and
his wife share. (Boulos Reply Decl., ¶ 8.) Thus, any unaccounted-for property
is insufficient to post as collateral for the surety bond. Based on the evidence, the Court is inclined to find
Defendants indigent and unable to post an appeals bond. Defendants have
provided ample evidence that they are unable to pay a surety bond company the
quoted $2,250,000.00 in collateral. In its discretion, the Court waives the
requirement that Defendant post an appeals bond. Accordingly, the Court grants
the Motion to Stay Enforcement of the Judgment for Appeal.  







































































