 Case Number:  24VECV03670    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



GELT-UHON DEVELOPMENT
  HOLDINGS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; GELT RESEDA FEE OWNER,
  LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; UHON WATERMARK FEE OWNER, LLC, a
  Delaware limited liability company, 
                    Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
ARCHITAG, LLC, a California limited
  liability company; ARCHITAG, LLP, a California limited liability partnership;
  STEPHEN M. ALBERT, an individual; NABIH YOUSSEF ASSOCIATES, a California
  corporation; AIR PLUS ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS, INC., a California
  corporation; DOES 1 TO 1000, Inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
))))))))))))


     CASE NO.: 23VECV03670
 
ORDER DENYING NABIH
  YOUSSEF ASSOCIATES’ MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
 




AND ALL RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS.


)
)
)


    
  
 
 



          
I.              
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs
Gelt Reseda Fee Owner, LLC (“Gelt Reseda”), Uhon Watermark Fee Owner, LLC
(“Uhon Watermark”) are owners of a property located at 6625 Reseda Boulevard,
Los Angeles, CA 91335 (“Property”). Gelt-Uhon Development, LLC (“Gelt-Uhon”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”), former owner of the Property, allege they entered into an
agreement with Defendant Architag LLC (“Architag LLC”), who later began
operating as Defendant Architag LLP (“Architag LLP”) (collectively,
“Architag”), whereby Architag agreed to provide architectural, design and
engineering services. Plaintiffs allege Architag entered into an agreement with
Defendant Nabih Youssef Associates (“NYA”), whereby NYA would provide
structural engineering services, and into an agreement with Defendant Airplus Engineering
Consultants, Inc. (“Airplus”), whereby Airplus would provide mechanical
engineering services. Plaintiffs allege Architag, NYA, and Airplus breached
these agreements by performing services that fell far below the applicable
standards of care. 
On October
10, 2023, the Court found this action and 22VECV01959 related.
On June 13,
2024, NYA filed its Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant WPIC Construction,
LLC (“WPIC”), alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Express Indemnity; (3)
Equitable Indemnity; (4) Contribution/Apportionment; and (5) Declaratory
Relief. 
On November
25, 2024, the Court sustained WPIC’s Demurrer to NYA’s first, second, and fifth
causes of action without leave to amend. 
NYA now moves
for reconsideration.  
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On August 22,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Breach of Warranty; and (3) Negligence.
On September
26, 2023, Architag LLC, Architag LLP, and Defendant Stephen Albert (“Albert”)
filed their Answer. 
On October
10, 2023, this Court found this action and 22VECV01959 related within the
meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).
          On December
5, 2023, Architag LLC, Architag LLP, and Albert filed their Cross-Complaint,
alleging (1) Indemnity. 
On February
21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Warranty; and (3) Negligence.
On April 5,
2024, Architag LLC, Architag LLP, and Albert filed their Answer. 
          On
May 21, 2024, Airplus filed its Answer. 
          On June
13, 2024, NYA filed its Cross-Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Express Indemnity; (3) Equitable Indemnity; (4) Contribution/Apportionment; and
(5) Declaratory Relief. 
On November
25, 2024, the Court sustained WPIC’s Demurrer to NYA’s first, second, and fifth
causes of action without leave to amend (“Order”). 
On December
4, 2024, NYA filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration (“Motion”).
On December
17, 2024, WPIC filed its Opposition. 
On December
23, 2024, NYA filed its Reply. 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure § 1008 provides: “When an application for
an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in
part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by
the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party
making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1008; see also New York Times Co. v. Superior Ct. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 206, 212 (citing Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
674, 689).)
[1] “A party seeking reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time,” and
that the party act with reasonable diligence in finding or producing any new
facts or evidence. (New York Times Co., 135 Cal.App.4th at 212-13.)   
IV.     ANALYSIS  

A.            
Request for Judicial Notice
The
Court GRANTS NYA’s request for judicial notice of the Second Amended Complaint
in related case 22VECV01959 (“SAC”). The Court also GRANTS NYA’s request for judicial
notice of the Court’s November
25, 2024, Order. 
B.            
NYA’s Motion for Reconsideration is Denied
NYA moves for reconsideration of this
Court’s November 25, 2024, Order. (See Motion.) NYA argues it “was not
provided a fair opportunity at the hearing to advise as to how it can amend its
Cross-Complaint to cure any alleged defects and that its proposed First Amended
Cross-Complaint attached to the Declaration of Kristin T. Busch sufficiently
states its claims.” (Id. at 2.) Citing Rains v. Superior Court
(1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 933, 943-944, NYA argues it has added facts in its
proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint that “require factual findings and
evidence as to whether NYA is a third-party beneficiary.” (Id. at 10.)
NYA’s proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint contains new allegations such as “upon
information and belief, WPIC knew the purpose of the [construction contract
attached to the SAC (“Contract”)] at the time of Contract and that it knew the
architect and its consultants would benefit from the Contract during
construction” and “if the standard A201 included an express provision
precluding third party beneficiary claims, WPIC allowed it to be removed during
contract negotiations.” (Id. at pp. 12-13.) NYA also argues it should be
allowed to introduce evidence of the Contract negotiations, etc., though it
does not include any specific factual allegations about Contract negotiations
in its proposed First-Amended Complaint. (See id. at 13; Declaration of Kristin
Busch filed December 4, 2024 (“Busch Decl.”), ¶ 2, Ex. C.) Notably, NYA does
not directly address why these new allegations were not produced at an earlier
time or state it acted with reasonable diligence in finding or producing any
new facts or evidence. (See Busch Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) 
In opposition, WPIC argues “NYA has
provided no new evidence. NYA has not shown that the facts are any different
than they were when the Court issued its Ruling on the Demurrer. The new
allegation contained within the PFACC are simply NYA’s attempt to reinterpret
the Contract entered into between Plaintiff and WPIC.” (Opposition, pp. 2-3.) 
The Court does not find NYA has provided
the Court new or different facts, circumstances, or law to support its Motion as required by
the law. Even if it had, the Court does not find NYA demonstrated that it acted
with reasonable diligence in finding or producing new facts or evidence. NYA’s
proposed new facts are not new facts at all—they are legal arguments that were
just as available to NYA when the Court held its hearing on WPIC’s Demurrer as
they are now. A demurrer properly challenges defects on the face of a pleading
or from matters that are judicially noticeable. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) When the Court ruled on WPIC’s Demurrer, it judicially
noticed the Contract. (See Order, pg. 5.) The Court also found the
Contract was not ambiguous and was not reasonably suspectable to NYA’s interpretation
that NYA was a third-party beneficiary. (See Order, pp. 7-9.) It was
thus unnecessary for the Court to consider outside evidence of the negotiations
surrounding the Contract or other extrinsic evidence. (See, e.g., Southern
Cal. Edison Co. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 839, 847-48 (“When
a dispute arises over the meaning of contract language, the first question to
be decided is whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the
interpretation urged by the party. If it is not, the case is over.”)
It would be appropriate for the Court
to reconsider its ruling had NYA introduced new facts of Contract negotiations
or other extrinsic evidence that somehow evidenced the parties’ intent to benefit
third party NYA. But, as discussed above, NYA only includes additional legal
arguments, all of which begin with “NYA is informed and believes…” (Busch
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. C, ¶¶ 19-24.)
Accordingly, the Court DENIES NYA’s
Motion.  
V.    
CONCLUSION
Based on
the foregoing, the Court DENIES NYA’s Motion for Reconsideration.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED: January 10, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


