  Case Number:  20PSCV00249    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION TO STRIKE OR TAX COSTS OF DEFENDANT
HOMEGOODS,
INC. is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
This is a
subrogation case. Plaintiff State Farm General Insurance Company and State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm” or “Plaintiffs”) allege the
following: a heavy mirror in one of Plaintiffs’ insured home fell, hitting a
gas pipe that then caused an explosion. The explosion also affected the
neighbor’s vehicle, another of Plaintiffs’ insureds. Plaintiffs believe that
the explosion, fire and damage originated from the subject mirror and its parts
which were manufactured, designed, distributed, inspected, supplied, sold,
installed and/or purchased by Defendants, THE UTTERMOST CO. dba THE UTTERMOST
CO. – WCDC (“Uttermost”); THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. dba HOMEGOODS (“HomeGoods” or
“Defendant”), SHERYL BELL (“Bell”); and DOES 1-30, inclusive.[1]
 
On April 1,
2020, State Farm filed suit against Defendants for: 
 
1. Negligence 
2. Strict Products Liability 
3. Breach of Implied Warranties 
 
On August 4,
2022, HomeGoods filed a summary judgment motion (MSJ). 
 
On August 11, 2023, the court GRANTED
HomeGood’s MSJ.
 
On October 27, 2023, HomeGoods filed a
Memorandum of Costs. 
 
On November
22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Strike or Tax Costs Of Defendant
Homegoods, Inc.
 
On November
30, 2023, the parties filed a ‘Stipulation Between Plaintiffs State Farm
General Insurance Company And State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company,
And Defendant Homegoods, Inc., Re Entry Of Judgment And Filing Of Memorandum Of
Costs And Motion To Tax.’

On December 12, 2023, after taking the matter under submission, the
court denied Defendant HomeGood’s Costs of Proof Sanctions.
 
On December 28, 2023, HomeGoods filed its opposition to
Plaintiff’s Motion To Strike Or Tax Costs.
 
Legal
Standard
Allowable costs under
California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) Section 1033.5 must be
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in amount.
An item not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a) nor prohibited under
subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court
if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable
in amount). If the items appearing
in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking
to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v.
California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.) On
the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. (Id.)
Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a
question of fact for the trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of
discretion. (Id.) However, because the right to costs is governed
strictly by statute, a court has no discretion to award costs not statutorily
authorized. (Id.)
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves to strike two costs: (1) attorneys’ fees of
$105,054.15 and (2) $191.26 in deposition fees because Duk Hoon Cha’s
deposition was not taken. 
 
A.   
Attorney’s Fees 
 
As to the first, the court denied Defendant’s request for
attorney fees under CCP section 2033.420. (See Opp. p. 2:3-4[“Any attorney’s
fees reflected in the Memorandum of Costs, at item number 10, would be modified
by the Court’s ruling on the Motion for Costs of Proof.”].)  
 
Thus, the motion to tax said cost is GRANTED. 
 
B.   
Deposition Costs 
As to the second, Defendant does not dispute the error. (See
Opp. p. 2:5-6[“[T]his amount was added to the Memorandum of Costs in error and
is withdrawn.”].) 
 
Thus, the motion to tax the cost of the deposition of Duc
Hoon Cha is GRANTED (or moot).  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS the motion thereby
striking the memorandum of costs in relation to the attorney’s fees and the
deposition costs of Duk Hoon Cha. 


