 Case Number:  23STCV11360    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant
Long Beach Unified School District’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint 
Demurrer
Defendant Long Beach Unified School District
demurs to all six causes of action alleged by plaintiff Brenda Estrada.
Plaintiff’s complaint is both uncertain and
fails to allege sufficient facts for any of her causes of action.  “ ‘[T]o state a cause of action against a
public entity, every fact material to the existence of its statutory liability
must be pleaded with particularity.’ ”  (Lopez
v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.)  
Plaintiff’s complaint relies almost entirely
on conclusory allegations.  She alleges,
“Commencing in or about May, 2021, Plaintiff began experiencing serious, severe
and pervasive harassment and discrimination based on her sex, gender and age.”  (¶ 22.) 
Those are legal conclusions.  She alleges
no facts stating what she experienced.  Plaintiff
does not allege what happened such that “the social environment of
the workplace [became] intolerable” (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009)
47 Cal.4th 686, 706) and does not allege any facts constituting “intimidation, ridicule, and
insult.”  (Rehmani v. Superior Court (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 945, 951.)  
Plaintiff also never alleges with
particularity any adverse employment action against her.  The complaint alleges defendant took “adverse employment actions against Plaintiff”
(¶ 26) and that plaintiff “suffered repeated and significant adverse actions at
the workplace perpetrated by Defendants, including but not limited to demotion,
refusal to promote and reduction in hours and wage compensation” (¶ 27).  Alleging adverse employment actions
“including but not limited to” these three examples obfuscates the basis for
any liability.  
For her second cause of action for
retaliation, plaintiff alleges she made “repeated requests that [defendant] cease
and desist in their unlawful misconduct” (¶ 23) and “refused to assist
defendants in their unlawful misconduct” (¶ 25) without alleging any facts
identifying what “unlawful misconduct” she opposed.
When read as a whole, the
complaint never alleges facts adequate to apprise defendant of the basis for
its liability.  Rather than alleging the
facts with particularity, the complaint merely identifies the nature of
plaintiff’s causes of action and asserts legal conclusions restating their
elements.
Motion to Strike
            Defendant
moves to strike three portions of plaintiff’s complaint.  The motion to strike is
moot because the court will sustain defendant’s demurrer to the entire
complaint.
Disposition
Defendant Long Beach Unified School
District’s demurrer to plaintiff Brenda Estrada’s entire complaint is sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend.