 Case Number:  22STCV15743    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Yolanda Perez’s Motion to
Enforce Settlement Pursuant to CCP § 664.6 and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
Plaintiff
Yolanda Perez moves to enforce the parties’ settlement agreement and to enter
judgment against defendant Color Story Textile, Inc.  “If parties to pending litigation stipulate,
in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court... for
settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (CCP § 664.6(a).)  
Plaintiff
has fulfilled the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.  The parties stipulated in writing to settle
this action.  They signed a settlement
agreement in March 2023.  (Villarreal
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. A.)  They further
signed an addendum to the agreement in June 2023.  (Id., ¶¶ 12-13, Ex. E; ¶¶ 24-25, Ex.
J.)  Defendant agreed to pay plaintiff
$60,000 in three installments.  (Id.,
Ex. E.)  Defendant further agreed that if
it did not timely pay, plaintiff may submit a stipulation for entry of judgment
and proposed judgment.  (Id., Ex.
J.)  
Defendant
did not make any payments required under the parties’ agreements.  (Villarreal Decl., ¶ 27.)  Plaintiff has moved to enter judgment
pursuant to the terms of the parties’ agreement.  Plaintiff served this motion on defendant,
who did not oppose it.  The court will
therefore enter judgment.  
Plaintiff
also seeks $3,212.10 in attorney fees and costs incurred in bringing this
motion.  Plaintiff may recover reasonable
attorney fees and costs pursuant to the parties’ settlement agreement.  The agreement provides, “If any action at law
or in equity, including an action for declaratory relief, is brought to enforce
or interpret the provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be
entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs for material breaches
of this Agreement.”  (Villarreal Decl.,
Ex. A, § 4.i.)  Plaintiff prevailed in
this proceeding to enforce the settlement agreement.  
Plaintiff
did not, however, reasonably incur $3,212.10 in expenses.  Plaintiff claims attorney fees for 5.48 hours
drafting the moving papers and 2.5 hours anticipated to review the opposition
and prepare a reply and to prepare for and attend the hearing.  (Villarreal Decl., ¶ 28.)  Plaintiff claims an hourly rate of $395.  (Id., ¶ 30.)  Drafting this simple motion did not
reasonably require 5.48 hours of work. 
Furthermore, defendant did not oppose the motion.  Plaintiff filed only a notice of non-opposition,
not a reply brief.  The court therefore finds
plaintiff reasonably incurred 5.0 hours of attorney fees at $395 hourly, plus
the $60 filing fee (id., ¶ 31), for a total of $2,035 in expenses.
Plaintiff
Yolanda Perez’s motion to enforce settlement is granted.  The court will enter judgment for plaintiff
Yolanda Perez against defendant Color Story Textile, Inc. in the amount of $62,035.