  Case Number:  22TRCV00667    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
CHRISTINA
  DE VANEY VAUGHAN, an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00667




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted




 
TESLA,
  INC., a Delaware Corporation; TESLA MOTORS, INC., a California Corporation;
  and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
22, 2024        
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants Tesla, Inc. and Tesla
Motors Inc.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Christina De Vaney
Vaughan
HEARING: Motion to
Compel Arbitration
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The Court grants the Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings.
BACKGROUND
            On August 5, 2022, Plaintiff
Christina De Vaney Vaughn filed the Complaint.
 
            On September 9, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint against Defendants Tesla Inc. and Tesla
Motors Inc., alleging causes of action for breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability under the Song-Beverly Act, breach of the express warranty of
habitability under the Song-Beverly Act, violations of the Consumer Legal
Remedies Act, violations of unfair competition law, and concealment.
 
            On October 12, 2022, Defendants
filed the first motion to compel arbitration.
 
            On February 6, 2023, the Court
denied Defendants’ first motion to compel arbitration without prejudice.
 
            On June 17, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration.
            
            On October 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the Opposition.
 
            On October 16, 2024, Defendant filed
the Reply.
 
            Trial is set for May 13, 2025.
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            
The Court may take judicial notice of records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States. (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (d).) The Court
may also take judicial notice of “Official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.” (Evid. Code § 452 subd. (c).)
            
            Defendants request the Court take
judicial notice of the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff has not objected to
this request. Therefore, the Court grants the request.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Objections
to the Declaration of Raymond Kim
 
            Overruled: 1, 2, 3,
3, 3, 3, 2, 2
 
            Sustained: 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”)
applies in both federal and state courts to contracts evidencing a transaction
involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. §§ 1-2; Southland Corp. v. Keating
(1984) 465 U.S. 1, 12.) The FAA preempts conflicting state law. (Preston v.
Ferrer (2008) 552 U.S. 346, 353.) The party that contends the FAA applies
bears the burden to demonstrate that the arbitration agreement is in a
“‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce’ . . . .” (Woolls v.
Super. Ct. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists unless it determines that: (a) The right to
compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b)¿Grounds exist for
the revocation of the agreement.”¿ 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The instant case
arises out of a lease for a Tesla Model Y. Defendants argue that Plaintiff
signed a lease agreement that reads, in pertinent part:
 
Agreement to Arbitrate:
 
Please carefully read this provision, which
applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates
(together, "Tesla"). If you have a concern or dispute, you must send
a written notice describing it and your desired resolution to
resolutions@tesla.com.
 
If the issue is not resolved within 60 days,
you agree that any dispute related to any aspect of your relationship with
Tesla will be resolved by a single arbitrator, not by a judge or jury, in an
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under
its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This agreement includes claims that arose
before this Agreement, such as those related to statements about Tesla
products.
 
Tesla will pay all AAA fees for arbitration,
which will be held in the city or county where you reside. To learn more about
the Rules or how to start arbitration, you can contact any AAA office or visit
www.adr.org.
 
The arbitrator can only resolve disputes
between you and Tesla and cannot combine claims without the consent of all
parties. The arbitrator is also unable to hear class or representative claims
or provide relief on behalf of others who purchase or lease Tesla vehicles. In
other words, you and Tesla can only bring claims against each other in your
individual capacity and not as part of a class or representative action. If a
court or arbitrator finds any part of this arbitration agreement unenforceable
for a specific claim or remedy, that claim or remedy must be brought in court,
while any other claims will be arbitrated.
 
Alternatively, you may take individual
disputes to small claims court. You can opt out of arbitration within 30 days
of signing this Agreement by sending a letter to Tesla, Inc., P.O. Box 15430,
Fremont, CA 94539-7970, with your name, Vehicle Identification Number, and
intent to opt out of arbitration. If you do not opt out, this arbitration
agreement supersedes any other arbitration agreement between us, including
those in any lease or finance contracts.
(Kim Decl. Exhibit 1.) 
 
 
Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement and
Claims Covered by Arbitration Clause¿ 
 
“[T]he petitioner
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by
the preponderance of the evidence . . . .” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) “In determining whether
an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine
only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties’
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.” (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified, and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.” (Titolo
v. Cano (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.” (California Correctional Peace Officers Ass’n v. State
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.) 
 
“[A] party opposing
the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano, supra,
149 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.) 
 
            Defendants established the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 1-5,
Exhibit 1.)
 
Waiver
 
Courts have held
that the following factors are relevant to the waiver inquiry: “(1) whether the
party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the
litigation machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well
into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of
an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration
enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking
a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim
without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether important
intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not
available in arbitration] had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay
‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing party.” (Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 374-375.)
 
Plaintiff argues
that Defendants have waived their right to compel arbitration due to their
conduct and the resulting prejudice to Plaintiff. Although Defendants initially
filed a motion to compel arbitration on October 12, 2022, it was denied on
February 6, 2023, without prejudice. Defendants refiled the motion, repeatedly
changing the hearing dates and causing significant delays. After multiple
requests for advancement and postponements of hearing dates, Defendants
withdrew their motion on February 16, 2024, only to file a new motion to compel
arbitration on June 17, 2024, with a hearing set for October 22, 2024.
 
  Defendants have agreed to a trial date of May
13, 2025, which invokes substantial litigation procedures, inconsistent with
their right to compel arbitration. Furthermore, Defendants have refused to
participate in the discovery process despite the Court lifting the stay on
discovery on June 18, 2024. Plaintiff argues that this refusal to engage in
discovery, coupled with Defendants’ numerous delays, has severely prejudiced
her ability to pursue her case, and thus, Defendants have waived their right to
compel arbitration
 
Defendants argue
that they have not waived their right to compel arbitration and that any delays
were largely caused by Plaintiff’s actions. Specifically, the initial ruling on
the motion to compel arbitration was denied without prejudice, allowing
Defendants to refile once the issue of default had been resolved. Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s refusal to stipulate to set aside the default caused
delays, despite the Court's recommendation to resolve the matter without filing
motions.
 
 Defendants argue that their actions have not
been inconsistent with the right to arbitrate, as their litigation efforts have
solely focused on pursuing arbitration. Defendants emphasize that they have not
filed any counterclaims, propounded discovery, or engaged in litigation beyond
the motions related to compelling arbitration and setting aside the default.
 
Moreover,
Defendants claim that any delay was due to procedural issues and not
intentional.  Defendants conclude by
stating that Plaintiff has not demonstrated any prejudice caused by the delays,
as no substantive litigation has occurred.
 
Therefore,
Defendants argue that they have consistently pursued arbitration and that there
is no legal basis for claiming they waived their right to arbitrate.
 
In Khalatian v.
Prime Time Shuttle, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, the Court found that a
14-month delay between the filing of the complaint and the filing of a
motion to arbitrate to not constitute a waiver, despite the fact a demurrer and
motion to strike had been filed by the party moving for arbitration. (Khalatian
v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 662.)
 
            Here, the first motion to compel arbitration was filed
two months after the filing of the Complaint and only one month after the
filing of the First Amended Complaint. The first motion was denied based on
Defendant’s default. (February 6, 2023, Minute Order.) The default was not set
aside until December 19, 2023. (December 19, 2023, Minute Order.) Defendants
have filed no other motions except to vacate the default and seek
arbitration.  Furthermore, Defendants
have refused to participate in discovery while the instant Motion to Arbitrate
has been pending. Therefore, because the delay was caused by the default and
Defendants have not meaningfully participated in the “litigation machinery”
except to seek arbitration, the Court finds that Defendants have not waived
their right to seek arbitration. (See, Iskanian, supra, 59 Cal.4th 348,
374-375; Khalatian, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 662.)
 
            Song-Beverly Claims
 
            Plaintiff argues that the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act (SBWA) is a consumer protection law designed to ensure consumer rights, and
allowing arbitration clauses to override its provisions would undermine this
purpose.  Courts have previously ruled
that arbitration clauses in consumer rights cases can be invalid due to public
policy concerns, as they deny consumers access to a judicial forum to address
their rights.
 
Plaintiff
highlights that the SBWA includes an anti-waiver provision, making any waiver
of its protections, such as through arbitration clauses, unenforceable and
void. If the court were to enforce the arbitration agreement, it would deny
Plaintiff the right to a jury trial, a key protection under the SBWA. 
 
Since compelling
arbitration would prevent Plaintiff from pursuing statutory rights in court and
would violate public policy, Plaintiff argues that the motion to compel
arbitration should be denied for claims arising under SBWA, CLRA, and UCL.
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff's claim that Song-Beverly
claims cannot be arbitrated is unsupported by any case law. On the contrary,
California law favors arbitration as an efficient and cost-effective way to
resolve disputes. (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967.)  Defendants emphasize that courts have
explicitly held that Song-Beverly claims can be compelled to arbitration. (See,
Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899; Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486.) They argue that submitting a
claim to arbitration does not waive rights under Song-Beverly and that the
arbitration provision in question does not limit the causes of action or
remedies available under the law. 
 
Defendants conclude
that Plaintiff’s assertions contradict binding authority, as courts have
consistently upheld the arbitrability of Song-Beverly claims. Accordingly,
Plaintiff's claims must be arbitrated, and the arbitration agreement should be
enforced.
 
            The Court has routinely found that Song-Beverly Act
claims are subject to arbitration. (See, Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th 486; Sanchez, supra, 61 Cal.4th 899.) Therefore, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act claims are subject to arbitration.
 
CLRA 
 
Plaintiff argues
that their claim under the Consumer Legal Remedies Act is not subject to
arbitration and should be heard by the court. They reference the arbitration
agreement, which states that claims for injunctive or declaratory relief should
be decided in court. Plaintiff contends that Tesla's reliance on arbitration
rules, which grant the arbitrator power to decide arbitrability, is misplaced.
Plaintiff states that courts, not arbitrators, should decide whether claims are
arbitrable unless the parties clearly agree otherwise. Since there is no clear
agreement, Plaintiff asserts that the court should make this determination. (United
Public Employees v. City & County of San Francisco (1997) 53 Cal. App.
4th 1021, 1026.)
 
Moreover, Plaintiff
invokes the "unclean hands" doctrine, arguing that Tesla acted in bad
faith by concealing vehicle damage, and the court should not enforce the
arbitration clause in such circumstances (Garcia v. World Sav., FSB (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1044.) They also emphasize that enforcing arbitration
would undermine consumer protection laws like the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act, which were enacted to protect consumers and should not be
circumvented by arbitration clauses. (Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003)
114 Cal. App. 4th 77.) 
 
In conclusion,
Plaintiff argues that compelling arbitration would violate public policy and
deny them the judicial forum needed to address significant statutory rights,
and therefore, Tesla’s motion to compel arbitration should be denied.
 
In reply,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim under the Consumer Legal Remedies Act
is subject to arbitration because Plaintiff is not seeking public injunctive
relief, but rather relief specific to her individual situation. Defendants
point out that the relief sought by Plaintiff would only benefit her personally
and does not aim to benefit the public, as the facts in her complaint relate
solely to her experience with her specific Tesla vehicle. Plaintiff's claims
focus on Tesla's alleged failure to disclose damages to her particular car,
which does not impact other consumers.
 
Defendants
emphasize that Plaintiff does not allege her Consumer Legal Remedies Act claim
as a class or representative action, and there are no allegations suggesting
the public suffered harm. (Kim v. Reins International California, Inc.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 81.) Furthermore, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff's claim for injunctive relief is not for the public benefit and,
thus, is arbitrable according to California Supreme Court precedent. (Broughton
v. Cigna Healthplans of California (1999) 21 Cal.4th 1066, 1072.)
 
Additionally, even
if Plaintiff were seeking public injunctive relief, Defendants assert that
federal law preempts the argument that such claims cannot be arbitrated. Plaintiff
argues that the U.S. Court of Appeal rejected the Broughton-Cruz rule,
finding that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) preempts California’s rule
against arbitrating public injunctive relief claims. (Ferguson v. Corinthian
Colleges, Inc. (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 928, 938.) Defendants argue that
under federal law, all of Plaintiff’s claims, including any injunctive relief,
should be subject to arbitration.
 
            An action for damages is fully arbitrable under the Consumer
Legal Remedies Act. (Broughton, supra, 21 Cal.4th 1066, 1072.) However,
claims for public injunctive relief under the Consumer Legal Remedies Act are
not arbitrable. (Id at. 1084.) Plaintiff’s suit is not a suit for public
injunctive relief. Plaintiff does not bring this as a representative or class
action claim, nor does the Complaint allege harm to anyone other than Plaintiff.
While Plaintiff asks for an order enjoining Defendants’ actions, merely tacking
on an injunction to a private dispute does not create public injunctive relief.
(see, McGill v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, 955.) Furthermore,
the Court does not find Plaintiff's argument regarding unclean hands persuasive
as neither case Plaintiff cited in support of their position revolved around
arbitration. (See, Fladeboe v. American Isuzu Motors Inc. (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 42; Garcia v. World Savings, FSB (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
1031.) Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff's claims are subject to
arbitration.
 
 
Unconscionability

 
“The prevailing
view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a
contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation] But
they need not be present in the same degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is
invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.’ [Citation]
In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)
 
“A contract term is
not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater
benefit; rather, the term must be so one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience.’” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 246.) The party resisting a motion to compel arbitration because
it is unconscionable bears the burden of proving unconscionability by
substantial evidence. (Metis Development LLC v. Bohacek (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 679, 692.)
 
            Plaintiff states that the arbitration clause is
substantively and procedurally unconscionable.
 
            Procedural Unconscionability 
 
            Plaintiff claims that the arbitration clause is
procedurally unconscionable because it was presented on a
"take-it-or-leave-it" basis, without negotiation, and hidden in the
contract. (see Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc., (2003) 114 Cal. App. 4th 77,
at 89.) Plaintiff was not informed of her right to opt-out, and the clause was
inconspicuously presented as the salesman quickly scrolled through the Lease
agreement. 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff's claim that the
arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable due to it being presented
on a "take-it-or-leave-it" basis is misguided and contradicts
California Supreme Court rulings. (Sanchez, supra, 61 Cal.4th 899, 914.)
The Sanchez ruling clarified that the mere existence of a form contract
does not prove an unfair disparity in bargaining power, and Plaintiff had the
ability to negotiate or lease a vehicle elsewhere if desired. (Id at
915.)
 
Additionally,
Defendants address Plaintiff's claim that she was not properly informed about
the arbitration clause. They argue that under Sanchez, sellers are not
required to highlight or specifically draw attention to the arbitration clause,
and any state law imposing such a requirement would be preempted by the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA). (Sanchez, supra, 61 Cal.4th 899, 914.) The
Supreme Court in Sanchez also ruled that it is unreasonable for
individuals to sign a contract without reading it, even if they were assured it
wasn’t necessary to do so. (Id. at 915.)
 
            The Court has routinely found that form contracts are not
procedurally unconscionable and that the law presumes everyone who signs a
contract has read it thoroughly. (See, Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton
& Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127; Sanchez, supra, 61
Cal.4th 899, 914.) Furthermore, Plaintiff contends the arbitration
agreement was hidden. However, it was the only term of the Lease Agreement
outlined by a box, and the arbitration clause allowed for opting out of the
agreement within thirty days. (Kim Decl. Exhibit 1.) Therefore, the Court finds
that the arbitration agreement was not procedurally unconscionable.
 
            Substantive Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff claims
that the arbitration clause is unconscionable because the clause is one-sided,
benefiting Tesla and requiring Plaintiff to waive her right to a jury trial.
Plaintiff highlights unfair provisions in the lease, such as Tesla’s
indemnification clause and the restriction on class or representative claims.
 
Defendants argue
that just because a contract provides one party with a greater benefit does not
automatically make it substantively unconscionable. Defendants assert that the
arbitration provision in the lease applies equally to both parties and argue
that Plaintiff has not demonstrated any portion of the agreement that meets the
high standard of being so one-sided that it would be considered unconscionable.
Therefore, Defendants contend that the arbitration agreement does not meet the
criteria for substantive unconscionability.
 
Here, the Court
does not find any provisions in the arbitration agreement that “shock the
consciousness.” (See, Pinnacle, supra,55 Cal.4th 223, 246) While Plaintiff
argues that terms in the agreement involving indemnification and the power of
the arbitrator are unconscionable, “A contract term is not substantively
unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater benefit” (Id. at
246.)
 
Thus, the Court
finds that the arbitration agreement was not unconscionable.
 
Therefore, the
Court grants the Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings.