  Case Number:  19STCV10467    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
UTILITY
TRAILER MANUFACTURING COMPANY’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IN THE ALTERNATIVE is GRANTED because under the Rowland
factors, Defendant owes no duty notably when the side underride guards
were not available at the time of manufacturing the trailer. Of import:
Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address the Rowland factors (and any requests
at the hearing to allow for supplemental briefing on the issue will be denied).[1]
                                                                                                           
Background
 
This lawsuit arises out of a July 9, 2017 fatal motor
vehicle collision.[2] 
 
On March 27, 2019, Plaintiffs, Jaime Valenzuela, individually, and as
successor in interest to Irving Valenzuela, deceased, and Tammy Martinez,
individually, and as successor in interest to Irving Valenzuela, deceased filed
suit. 
 
On February
24, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their third amended complaint (TAC) alleging, in
pertinent part for purposes of this motion, the following five causes of action
(COA) against Defendant Utility Trailer Manufacturing Company (“Utility” or
“Defendant”):[3] 1.     Strict Products Liability –Negligence 2.     Strict products liability –failure to
warn 3.     Strict products liability 4.     Survival 5.     Declaratory relief
 
On June 29,
2022, Utility filed the instant motion.
 
On November
28, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition to Defendant’s MSJ/MSA.
 
On December
7, 2023, Defendant Utility filed its reply. 
 
Discussion[4]
 
1.     Preliminary Comments 
 
i.                
Risk-Benefit Test 
 
First, Defendant’s
motion does not address the risk-benefit test.[5]

 
For the first
time in Reply, Defendant addresses the argument, rendering the argument untimely.
Instead, the motion focuses on whether a duty was owed based upon (i)
case law and (ii) the Rowland factors. 
 
But based on
Plaintiff’s own cited authority, the failure to discuss the risk-benefit test
in its motion is not fatal because where liability depends on the proof
of design defect (i.e., products liability), no practical difference exists
between negligence and strict liability, the claims merge. (Lambert v.
General Motors (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1185; see also Opp. p. 12,
citing Jimenez v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1971) 4 Cal.3d 379, 387
[Theory of strict liability in tort and negligence “parallel and supplement
each other.”].) Accordingly, addressing duty (i.e., as to negligence theory)
tacitly addresses the strict products liability theory.[6]

 
Therefore, the
court’s analysis will also focus on the issue of duty and not the risk-benefit
theory.[7]

 
ii.              
Pleadings Frame the Issue 
 
Second, it is
well-established that on a summary judgment motion, the pleadings frame the
issues. As observed by the appellate court in Laabs v. City of Victorville (2008)
163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253: 
 
[D]efendant
moving for summary judgment need address only the issues raised by the complaint; the plaintiff cannot bring up
new, unpleaded issues in his or her opposing papers. [internal citation
omitted]. To create a triable issue of material fact, the opposition evidence
must be directed to issues raised by the pleadings. [Citation.]
If the opposing party's evidence would show some factual assertion,
legal theory, defense or claim not yet pleaded, that party
should seek leave to amend the pleadings before
the hearing on the summary judgment motion. [Citations.]
[internal citation omitted]. [T]he pleadings ‘delimit
the scope of the issues' to be determined and ‘[t]he complaint measures the
materiality of the facts tendered in a defendant's challenge to the plaintiff's cause of action.’ [Citation.] [Plaintiff's]
separate statement of material facts is not a substitute for an amendment of
the complaint. [Citation.] [internal citation omitted]. (emphasis added). 
 
There are two
specific allegations directed at Utility. Of pertinence here is paragraph 71, which
states as follows: 
 
[T]he trailer of the tractor trailer combination operated by defendant
[] did not have "side underride guards" (instead only a wind guard) despite
the availability and advisability of this feature having been available
for many years. (emphasis added). 
 
Effectively, Plaintiff premises its products liability claim against
Defendant for its failure to attach commercially available side underride
guards. But, as will be further discussed in the Rowland analysis
below, side underride guards were not available when Utility manufactured the
trailer in 2011. In fact, corroborating Defendant’s expert evidence, Plaintiff’s
own experts state that side underride guards became first commercially
available in 2017. The
court emphasizes the fact that the allegation is that the side underride
guards were available, not as, Plaintiff largely does so in opposition,
argue that Defendant had a responsibility to engineer and develop a
side underride guard. (See Plaintiffs’ Response to
Defendant’s SS, No. 8, p. 9.) Thus, any evidence submitted must speak to
whether the side underride guards were available, and Plaintiff did not submit
evidence to show that the side underride guards were available. Accordingly, as a factual
assertion that is central to the products liability issue has
been negated by Defendant, the analysis on the motion could have ended there.
 
However, as Defendant did not raise this argument and it would be
improper for the court to do so, the court will continue with points raised in
Defendant’s motion.
 
iii.            
Alternate Theories of Liability 
 
As with the opposition to the Access Storage Defendants’ MSJ, Plaintiff
again argues that Defendant did not address Plaintiff’s alternate theories of
liability. For the sake of brevity, the court directs the parties to the
analysis presented in its final ruling as to Access Storage Defendants’ MSJ. In
short, the argument is misplaced. 
 
iv.             
Case Law on the Issue of Whether Manufacturers Owe a Duty
to Make Their Vehicles Safe to Collide With 
 
For one, though not addressed by
either party, the product at issue here is a trailer, it is not a truck.
Thus, it is unclear whether vehicle code and regulations apply to the
trailer.

 
As for case law, neither party
has provided instructive California case law on the issue. 
 
a.     Hatch 
 
Defendant
heavily relies upon Hatch v. Ford Motor Co. (1958) 163 Cal.App.2d 393.
In Hatch, a boy lost his eye when he walked
into a hood ornament on a parked car. The
question presented as whether defendant owed to the public the duty to design
the vehicles sold by it to prevent the type of injury sustained by the
plaintiff when said automobile was at rest (i.e., parked). (Id. at p.
396.) In affirming the demurrer, the
appellate court held that in the absence of statute, a manufacturer owes no
duty to design an automobile so as to preclude injuries of this type sustained
while the car is not being operated, i.e., this is not a risk to be
anticipated. Otherwise, liability could be imposed for injuries from any
protruding functional parts, such as headlights or radio antenna. (Id. at
p. 397.) But as noted by the appellate court, its decision did not reach
the issue of whether a duty was owed when the vehicle was operated. (Ibid.)

 
Thus, and as noted by Plaintiff in opposition, Hatch and its
progeny are irrelevant because the subject trailer was not stationary
upon impact with decedent’s vehicle.[8]

 
To the extent in Reply Defendant appears to argue that “[f]or all
practical purposes, the trailer in the present case was a stationary object,
given that it was barely moving.” (Reply p. 6, emphasis added.) Barely moving
is still moving. Moreover, Hatch did not involve an attached trailer
to the parked car, further suggesting the dissimilarity in facts. 
 
b.     Pike 
 
As for Plaintiff, he
vehemently argues that the issue of the lack of side underride guards has been
a problem since the mid 1900s and there have been hundreds of trials regarding
the lack of side underride guards.[9] Yet, Plaintiff has
not cited one relevant California case, presuming there should be one
considering that California has “pioneered in the development and extension” of
products liability. (Pike v. Frank G. Hough Co. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 465,
474.) Plaintiff’s reliance upon Pike v. Frank G. Hough Co. (1970) 2
Cal.3d 465 is unavailing as it factually disanalogous. Pike involved
plaintiff’s appeal from the trial court’s granting defendant manufacturer’s
nonsuit. In the case, a paydozer struck decedent while it was backing up. The
California Supreme Court held that the doctrine of strict liability may be
applicable to manufacturer of paydozer which was designed to go forward and
backward but had blind spot so that operator could not see a
six-foot-tall man standing one foot to 48 feet behind machine. (Id. at
p. 468.) Thus, the issue was whether the obviousness of peril precludes
liability on part of manufacturer. (Id. at p. 474 [“Under the modern rule, even though the
absence of a particular safety precaution is obvious, there ordinarily would be
a question for the jury as to whether or not a failure to install the device
creates an unreasonable risk.'
 
We
conclude, therefore, that it was error to nonsuit plaintiffs in their cause of
action based on the negligent design of the paydozer.”].) 
 
Here,
however, there is no allegation nor argument that the alleged defect was
obvious. 
 
Therefore,
Pike, like Hatch, is not controlling. 
 
c.      Out-of-State Authority
 
In the
absence of controlling authority, the court can turn to persuasive authority.
Defendant cites to two cases that involve underride accidents:  Miehers v.
Brown (1973) 54 Ill.2d 539 and Rivers
v. Great Dane Trailers, Inc. (M.D. Ala. 1993) 816 F.Supp.1525. 
 
i.                
Miehers 
 
This court declines to follow Miehers for two
reasons. 
 
First, though the
court observed that “the concept of duty in negligence cases is very involved,
complex and indeed nebulous” (id. at p. 545), the court, respectfully,
does not provide an analysis as to the elements aside from foreseeability that
a court is to consider. (Id. at p. 544.) Therefore, in this context, the
case is unhelpful. 

 
Second, as noted by Plaintiff in opposition and not
otherwise disputed in Reply, Illinois has adopted modified comparative
negligence (735 ILCS 5/2-1116) as the standard for recovery of damages (i.e.,
an injured party may recover damages if he/she is less than 50% at fault for
the injury). California abides by comparative
fault. (Li v. Yellow Cab Co (1975) 13
Cal.3d 804.) Thus, to rely on cases that apply a different standard for
negligence in adjudicating a negligence case would be misplaced. 
 
ii.              
Rivers
 
Next, Defendant cites to Rivers v. Great Dane Trailers, Inc. (M.D.
Ala. 1993) 816 F.Supp.1525.[10]
In Rivers, the tractor-trailer rig had
been lawfully stopped in when the decedent’s vehicle crashed into the
rear of the trailer portion of the rig. (Id. at p. 1527.) The trailer
did have a rear bumper, but even after that first impact, the decedent’s car
continued underneath the trailer; it was this second impact that produced the
fatal injuries.  (Ibid.) The
plaintiff alleged that the trailer should have been equipped with a step bumper
which would prevent underride in the event of a rear-end collision. (Ibid.)
On appeal, the issue presented was “[w]hether or not the defendants, Great Dane
and Ryder, owed a duty of care to provide a step bumper on the rear of the
trailer which would sufficiently prevent injury, caused by underriding, to a
plaintiff who collides with the trailer from behind, where that trailer is
lawfully stopped and where the driver of the tractor-trailer rig did not act in
a negligent manner.” (Id. at p. 1529.) The court determined that the
manufacturer owed no duty to persons such as plaintiff's decedent who crash
into the rear of its trailers, reaching its decision based upon three cases: Miehers
(supra), Hatch (supra), and Kahn v. Chrylser Corp., 221 F.Supp.677
(S.D. Texas 1963). (Plus, Kahn involved Texas law, which is a modified
comparative negligence state.) 
 
Here, however, there are three distinguishing facts.
First, the subject tractor-trailer was not stopped; it is undisputed that the
tractor-trailer was in the process of making a left turn onto Ethanac Road.
Second, in Rivers, the trailer was already equipped with some
sort of equipment whereas here, the trailer was not equipped with any sort of
bumper. Third, this court has already determined Miehers and Hatch inapplicable.
Likewise, Kahn, is inapplicable because involved a stationary care and
whether a manufacturer has a duty to design his automobile that it will be safe
for a child to ride his bicycle into it while the car is parked. 
 
Therefore, Rivers is not instructive. 
 
Thus, this
court declines to follow Hatch, Miehers, and Rivers. (Motion p. 6,
Header ‘D’ [“Hatch, Miehers, & Rivers Necessitate the Conclusion that
Utility Trailer Did Not Owe Decedent a Duty to Equip Its Trailer With
Side-Underride Guards.”].) 
 
Absent case
law imposing a duty, the court turns to the issue of whether the Rowland factors
provide one. (See Motion p. 7:1-13 [“The Court could stop the analysis there,
and there is no need to conduct a full-blown duty analysis. However, even if
the court conducts a duty analysis, the Rowland factors related to
public policy necessitate the same conclusion as above.”].) 
 
2.     Merits/Rowland
Factors
 
In Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal. 2d 108, 112–113, the California Supreme Court
set forth the following factors to be considered by courts when determining
whether public policy concerns weigh in favor of an exception to the general
duty of due care: (1) the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff; (2) the
degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury; (3) the closeness of
the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered; (4) the
moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct; (5) the policy of preventing
future harm; (6) the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to
the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for
breach; and (7) the
availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.
(See Motion p. 7.) Defendant concedes the first three Rowland factors,
which address the foreseeability of the relevant injury. (Motion p. 7:24-25.) 
 
The last four
address public policy concerns, which is the basis of Defendant’s argument. As
the appellate court in Kesner v. Super. Ct. (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 1132,
1149-1150 observed: 
 
[F]oreseeability alone is not sufficient
to create an independent tort duty. [The] existence [of a duty] depends upon
the foreseeability of the risk and a weighing of policy considerations for
and against imposition of liability . . . “A duty of care will not be held to
exist even as to foreseeable injuries ... where the social utility of the
activity concerned is so great, and avoidance of the injuries so burdensome to
society, as to outweigh the compensatory and cost-internalization values of
negligence liability. [Citations.]”
 
a.     4th
Rowland Factor: Moral Blame
 
The court agrees that Defendant that moral blame cannot be attached to
Utility when there is no evidence that Utility desired to cause harm to the
general public. Moreover, it is undisputed that the trailer was compliant with
federal law because it was equipped with all federally mandated conspicuity
(i.e., proper lighting and reflective tape). 
 
b.     5th Rowland Factor:
Policy of Preventing Future Harm 
 
To date, the federal government has not
imposed any regulations mandating side underride guards on trailers. Plaintiff
concedes this point, but argues it is due to lobbying. That is inapposite. As
observed by the California Supreme Court in Ramirez v. Plough, Inc. (1993)
6 Cal.4th 539, 548 (Reply
p. 8) “there is some room in tort law for a defense of statutory compliance . .
. the minimum standard prescribed by the legislation or regulation may be accepted by the triers of fact, or by the court as a matter of law, as sufficient for the occasion …. [compliance
with legislative or
administrative safety standards relating
to product warnings deemed proof that warnings were adequate.” 
 
Thus, the lack of federal regulations mandating the use
of side underride guards demonstrates that the gravity of the danger from the
lack of side underride guards was not significant. 
 
c.      6th
Rowland Factor: Alternatives/Burden[11]

 
Related to the risk-utility test’s analysis of the feasibility of a
safer alternative design, here, there was no available side underride guard. 
 
According to
Defendant, side-underride guards did not become commercially available until
2017 when the AngelWing side-underride guard was first sold; the trailer was
made in 2011. (SS No. 8.) According to Jeffrey Bennet, who is the Vice
President of Engineering and Product Development at the company, to the best of
his knowledge, “side-underride guards did not become commercially available
until 2017 when the AngelWing side-underride guard was developed and first
sold.” (Bennett Decl., ¶5.) Corroborating Bennett’s statement is that of
Defendant’s expert, Alan T. Dibb, a mechanical engineer, who states that
“side-underride guards were not commercially available for sale in 2011 when
Utility Trailer designed and manufactured the Subject Trailer. The AngelWing
side-underride guard was first built in 2012 and did not become commercially
available until approximately 2017.” (Dibb Decl., ¶11.)[12]

 
In fact, the opposition itself notes that now Utility
is making its own side underride guards installing them on some of their
trailers as a no cost option (Opp. p. 5:17-18), suggesting that since the
equipment is now available, Utility is using it, despite no federal mandate. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant has provided evidence that as of 2011, there were no side underride
guards available.
 
In its
response, Plaintiff relies upon the declarations of Kiefer and Ponder. 
 
A review of both, however, does not prove
Plaintiff’s allegation that the side underride guards were available at time of
manufacturing the trailer.

 
In fact,
Kiefer’s declaration undermines Plaintiff’s argument that the side
underride guard was available in 2011 because it was not until 2015 that Kiefer
“started building” the devices. (Kiefer Decl., ¶12.) In fact, like
Kiefer’s declaration which undermines Plaintiff’s allegation, it wasn’t until
2017 that Ponder states that the AngelWing side guard he developed was invited
for testing. (¶12.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff relies upon Ponders’
declaration, Plaintiff misstates what Ponder states.[13] Ponder does not conclusively state
that the side underride guards themselves were available in 2011 but that the “technology
to build side underride guards was known.” (Ponder Decl., ¶62, p. 11,
emphasis added.) The issue is not whether the technology was available
but whether the actual equipment was available. Furthermore, the declaration
does not state that side underride guards were available in 2011 but
that rear underride guards were available; rear underride guards are
not at issue. (Ibid.) 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff relies upon Byron Bloch’s declaration, the court is uncertain as
to the relevance of crash tests conducted in Germany (Bloch Decl., p. 12),
Bloch’s 2001 trip to England to examine side guards on European trailers Bloch
Decl., p. 13), or his visit to Scotland for the same purpose. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff suggests that “the side underride hazard has been part of
the patent and government literature since at least 1910” (Opp. p. 4), the
patent is for a hundred-year-old patent for a side guard on a short bus.
(See Reply p. 10, emphasis original.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff suggests that Utility could
have obtained a side-underride guards from Europe, Plaintiff presents no
evidence that European side underride guards could be adapted to U.S. trailers
or that they would comply with U.S. federal and state regulations. (Reply p.
11:5-7.)  
 
Therefore, since at the time of
manufacturing the trailer in 2011 side underride guards were not commercially
available, it would have been impossible to equip the trailers with side
underride guards. 
 
Based on the Rowland
calculus above, it would be inherently unfair to retroactively impose
a duty for something that was impossible to do. 
 
Absent a
duty, the court need not address causation.[14]

 
Conclusion
 
All in all,
the issue presented in the TAC and the motion were simple: did Defendant
Utility owe a duty to equip a trailer with a side underride guard when at the
time of manufacturing its product, the equipment was not available. Absent evidence
that the equipment or an alternative was available in 2011, the court declines
to impose a duty. Based on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED. 
 
 


