 Case Number:  22SMCV02450    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB
Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor
Saliba’s Motion to
Dismiss Plaintiff’s (A Permanently Revoked Corporation) First Amended Complaint
is DENIED.
 
Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB
Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor
Saliba to give notice.

 
REASONING
 
Defendants NMS Fin Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB
Securities, LLC, NMS Capital Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor
Saliba (“Defendants”) have moved
the Court for an order dismissing Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”)’s First Amended Complaint if Plaintiff did not cure its lack of
capacity and present proof of the same to this Court. This motion first came on
for hearing on October 31, 2023, and December 1, 2023, and the Court issued an
order continuing the hearing on the motion and giving Plaintiff the opportunity
to cure its revoked corporate status and render the corporate entity as
existing in good standing. The Court further ordered Plaintiff to file evidence
that it is an active corporation in good standing, with a final certified copy,
or Plaintiff’s complaint would be dismissed, and its default would be entered.
 
On December
19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Plaintiff J&C Global Holdings, Inc.’s
Revival, which included two certified copy attachments showing that Plaintiff
is now an active corporation in good standing in Nevada, as evidenced by a
Certificate of Reinstatement/Revival, certified by the State of Nevada, Office
of the Secretary of State, showing Plaintiff’s active entity status, and a Certificate
of Existence with Status in Good Standing from the State of Nevada Secretary of
State. In a status conference statement filed on January 19, 2024, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s revival paperwork is false, but the certificate shows it
is certified by the Secretary of State, and the ability of Corinne Allain to
serve as President, Secretary, Treasurer, and Director of Plaintiff is not a
matter properly considered in the context of this motion to dismiss based on
corporate revival. The Court also will not reject these documents due to a
difference in last name because this is a matter for the Secretary of State to
consider in determining whether the revival is proper. The Court finds that
Plaintiff is an active corporation who may continue in this action.
Accordingly, Defendants NMS Fin
Holdings, LLC, NMS Capital Advisors, LLC dba HB Securities, LLC, NMS Capital
Group, LLC, BDMGMT Partners, LLC, and Trevor Saliba’s Motion to Dismiss
Plaintiff’s (A Permanently Revoked Corporation) First Amended Complaint is
DENIED.