  Case Number:  21SMCV01129    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  N January 11, 2024, and Defendant filed its reply on January 18, 2024. Several documents supporting and opposing the motion were filed on the docket with redactions, including evidence and separate statements supporting the parties’ briefs. No party has made an application or motion to seal any documents in this action, instead filing these redacted documents on the docket in violation of rule 2.551(a) of the California Rules of Court, which states that “[a] record must not be filed under seal without a court order.” Again, there is no pending application or motion to seal from any party, simply a notice of lodging confidential materials, despite the requirement, pursuant to rule 2.551(b)(1) of the California Rules of Court, that “[a] party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record,” and “[t]he motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”The parties’ filing of sealed and redacted documents without a court order violates rule 2.551(a) of the California Rules of Court, as the Court has issued no order allowing documents to be sealed in this action. A stipulation and protective order between the parties as to confidential documents does not render a motion or application to seal unnecessary, and paragraph 20 of the parties’ stipulation contemplated that motions other than discovery motions would be governed by rule 2.551 of the California Rules of Court, i.e., an application or motion to seal would be necessary. Further, the Court must determine whether sealing is proper as to each document, and it “may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (McGuan v. Endovascular Techs., Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988, paragraph breaks omitted.) Notably, “[u]nless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c)), and the Court must make express factual findings before sealing any court records in whole or in part. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.500(d).)The Court cannot issue a decision on the pending motion for summary judgment when the documents supporting and opposing the motion are redacted, and the Court has not properly considered whether sealing the documents underlying the Court’s decision is necessary. Thus, Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at hearing. The parties shall file motions to seal any redacted documents, and the motions shall describe why sealing is proper. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).) Oppositions to the motions to seal, if any, and reply briefs, if any, shall be filed according to code. The motions to seal, if any, will be heard on the same day as the motion for summary judgment. Alternatively, the parties may elect to file the redacted documents on the docket without redactions if proper. No further briefing on Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment will be permitted.The parties are advised that any further documents which are filed under seal or redacted must have an accompanying application or motion to seal, and the motion must be filed with sufficient notice before the hearing on the motion for which the document was filed. Failure to do so will result in a continuance of the motion hearing.Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion to Compel and ExcludeDefendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs’ retained damages expert Howard Grobstein to appear for his deposition on or before January 12, 2024, or, in the alternative, excluding Grobstein from trial in the event he cannot attend such a deposition. Notably, the motion was set for hearing after January 12, 2024, and Plaintiffs represent that Grobstein is scheduled to be deposed on January 31, 2024, before the expert discovery cutoff date and over a month before trial, which will allow Defendant time to file any necessary motion in limine as to Grobstein after his deposition. Plaintiffs represent that Grobstein was not able to be deposed until January 29, 30, or 31, due to the health of his partner and the care he sought to provide, and Plaintiffs have also offered to stipulate to an alternative schedule for any motion in limine as to Grobstein. In reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ conduct in delaying the deposition warrants exclusion of Grobstein as an expert.Defendant’s motion focuses on its inability to file a motion in limine, but Plaintiffs have stipulated to an alternative schedule for a motion in limine. Plaintiffs have also provided a cognizable reason for the delay in deposing their expert. While the Court is mindful of Defendant’s interest in deposing the expert, the Court is not inclined to exclude an expert whose testimony, by Defendant’s own description, is “the only game in town” (Reply, p. 1, l. 22). There are less prejudicial ways to handle the delay in the deposition, such as continuing the trial date should more time be needed to file a motion in limine, rather than excluding an expert. By Defendant’s own admission, the delay in deposition is simply one month after the initial date set for deposition. (Mot., p. 4, ll. 11-15.) Accordingly, Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion to Compel and Exclude is DENIED.