 Case Number:  21STCV34963    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 22, 2021, Plaintiff Alexander Hallstead
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Schueleke, Inc., Sergio
Julian Castel (“Castel”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
November 8, 2021, Schuelke, Inc., erroneously sued and served as Schueleke,
Inc. (“Schuelke”), filed an answer. On March 3,
2022, Castel filed an answer. 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order to produce inmate
Shehzad Peermahomed for deposition testimony, to be heard on March 7, 2024. On
February 23, 2024, Schuelke filed an opposition. On February 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently set for June 11, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to order the production of Shehzad Peermahomed (“Peermahomed”), who
is currently incarcerated in a state prison facility, for deposition. 
Schuelke
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1995 provides: 
“If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail
within this state, an order for his examination in the jail upon deposition, or
for his temporary removal and production before a court or officer may be made
as follows: 
“1. By the court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court. 
“2. By a justice of the Supreme Court, or a judge of
the superior court of the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if
pending before a small claims court, or before a judge or other person out of
court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1995.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1996 provides: 
“Such order can only be made on the motion of a party,
upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1996.) 
          Penal Code section 2623 provides: 
“If in a civil action or special proceeding a witness
be a prisoner, confined in a state prison within this state, an order for the
prisoner’s examination in the prison by deposition may be made. 
“1. By the court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court. 
“2. By a judge of the superior court of the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, if pending before a small claims
court or before a judge or other person out of court. 
“Such order can only be made on the motion of a party,
upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality. The deposition, when ordered,
shall be taken in accordance with Section 2622.” 
(Pen. Code, § 2623.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
wishes to depose Peermahomed, who is
currently incarcerated at Sierra Conservation Center and is not eligible for
parole until April 2028.  According to
Plaintiff, Peermahomed was a manager for Schuelke
and was the first person Castel, a Schuelke employee, spoke with after Castel’s
collision with Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Peermahomed
also provided information for Schuelke’s discovery responses.  The litigation coordinator at Sierra
Conservation Center has stated that he can produce Peermahomed for a deposition
if Plaintiff obtains a court order. 
Schuelke
opposes the motion, arguing Plaintiff did not timely serve and file it. “Unless
otherwise ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting
papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,
subd. (b).)  “Any period of notice .
. . shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court days” with
exceptions that do not apply here.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
Under
these statutes, Plaintiff should have filed and served the motion no later than
February 8, 2024.  Plaintiff’s argument
that California Rules of Court, rule 2.251(i)(2), authorizes later service and
filing is incorrect.  Plaintiff’s
February 13, 2024 filing and service of the motion by electronic means was
untimely.  Therefore, the Court denies
the motion.
Because the Court denies the motion as untimely, the Court does not address the merits of Plaintiff's motion.CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Alexander
Hallstead’s motion for an order to produce inmate Shehzad Peermahomed for
deposition testimony without prejudice to filing and serving a timely motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.