..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: [Unknown]
Plaintiff's Name: [Unknown]
Defendant's Name: [Unknown]
People-Named: None
Company-Named: None
Places: None
Dates: None
Events: None
Money: None
Intentions: The court is considering the elements of a negligence claim and premises liability claim.
Facts: The plaintiff filed an untimely opposition to the original demurrer, and the complaint does not allege inadequate security. The extent of the applicable law focuses on the element of "control".
Disputes: The plaintiff's argument that the complaint alleges inadequate security is not supported by the facts, and the court will not consider it.
Acts: The plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer, and the defendant did not respond to the allegation about no lighting on their property.
Agreements: None
Laws: Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, Donnell v. California Western School of Law (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 715, Preston v. Goldman (1986) 42 Cal.3d 108, Alcarez (supra) at p. 1164
Statutes: None
Roles: The judge is reviewing the opposition and demurrer to determine the elements of a negligence claim and premises liability claim.
Significant Statements:
* The elements of a negligence claim and premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.
* Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises.
```

Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The court is considering the elements of a negligence claim and premises liability claim in a case where the plaintiff filed an opposition to a demurrer. The plaintiff argues that the complaint alleges inadequate security, but the court finds that this allegation is not supported by the facts and will not be considered. The court also notes that the parties did not address an allegation about no lighting on the defendant's property. The court is focusing on the element of "control" in the applicable law, citing various cases, including Kesner v. Superior Court and Alcarez. The court finds that the plaintiff misstates the law in arguing that control can be shown by evidence of a commercial benefit from the use of public property. The court will rule on the demurrer based on its review of the opposition and demurrer.
