  Case Number:  21STCV27035    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT CALIFORNIA DESIGN CENTER, INC.
FOR VIOLATION OF COURT ORDER (C.C.P. § 177.5) AND FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH LOCAL
RULES (C.C.P. § 575.2) is DENIED.  
 
Background
 
This is a
personal injury case. Plaintiffs Candy Espinoza Frank Espinoza (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) allege the following against Defendant California Design Center,
Inc (“Defendant” or “California Design”): Plaintiffs hired Defendant to do
re-modeling work in Plaintiffs' home. As part of the remodel, Defendant's
employee relocated Plaintiffs’ Viking refrigerator to Plaintiffs' garage so
that Plaintiffs could continue to use the Viking during the remodel, but in the
process, Defendant failed to properly secure the Viking in its place. When
Plaintiff Candy went to open the Viking, the entire refrigerator began to fall
on top of her.[1]

 
On July 22,
2021, Plaintiffs filed suit for general negligence.
 
On April 13,
2022, Defendant filed its Cross-Complaint against Viking for Total Indemnity,
Implied Partial Indemnity, Declaratory Relief, Equitable Apportionment.[2]
 
On August 21,
2022, Defendant filed an amended cross-complaint, after Viking filed a
Demurrer.
 
On October
21, 2022, the court overruled Viking’s demurrer.[3]
 
On May 8,
2023, the court granted the Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
(CCP 877.6) filed by Viking Range, LLC on 04/07/2023. 
 
On July 10,
2023, the court held proceedings re: Hearing on Motion to Compel DEFENDANT
CALIFORNIA DESIGN CENTER, INC., MOTION TO COMPEL VIKING RANGE LLC PERSON MOST
KNOWLEDGEABLE TO DEPOSITION AND TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS; Trial Setting Conference.
The court’s minute order provides that a Mandatory Settlement Conference (MSC)
is scheduled for 02/15/2024 at 10:30 AM in Department G at Pomona Courthouse
South. Section 8 of the MSC instructions provides the following: “All counsel
are required to ELECTRONICALLY provide a Settlement Conference brief by 5 p.m.
no less than TEN (10) calendar days prior to the hearing.” (7/19/23 Minute
Order p. 3 of 5 of PDF.)[4]
 
On February
15, 2024, the court issued the following minute order re: the MSC: “The matter
is NOT called for hearing. As Defendant, CALIFORNIA DESIGN CENTER, INC. has failed to comply with the
Court's GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR SETTLEMENT CONFERENCE
by failing to file a Mandatory Settlement Conference Brief, the
Mandatory Settlement Conference (MSC) scheduled for 02/15/2024 is vacated. All future dates
remain as previously set. Parties have been notified telephonically.”[5]

 
On February
26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion. 
 
On April 2,
2024, Defendant filed its opposition. 
On April 22,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply. 
 
On April 23,
2024, Defendant filed an opposition.[6]

 
Future
hearing dates: The FSC is set for 6/17/24 and the non-jury trial is set for
6/24/24. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Plaintiffs
move the court for an order for sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
(CCP) sections 177.5 and 575.2 against Defendant and/or its counsel, Law Office
of Garber, Av & Duncan for their violations of the Court’s July 10, 2023
Minute Order which forced the Court-ordered February 15, 2024 MSC to be taken
off-calender. (Motion p. 2.)
 
In turn, CCP
section 177.5 provides as follows: 
 
A judicial officer shall have the power to impose reasonable
money sanctions, not to exceed fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500),
notwithstanding any other provision of law, payable to the court, for any
violation of a lawful court order by a person, done without good
cause or substantial justification. This power shall not apply
to advocacy of counsel before the court. For the purposes of this section, the
term ‘person’ includes a witness, a party, a party's attorney, or both.
Sanctions pursuant to this section shall not be imposed except on notice
contained in a party's moving or responding papers; or on the court's own
motion, after notice and opportunity to be heard. An order imposing sanctions
shall be in writing and shall recite in detail the conduct or circumstances
justifying the order. (emphasis and underline added added.)
 
Lastly, CCP
section 575.2 provides, in relevant part, the following: 
 
[I]f any counsel, a party represented by counsel, or a party if in pro
se, fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof, the court on
motion of a party or on its own motion may strike out all or any part of
any pleading of that party, or, dismiss the action or proceeding or any part
thereof, or enter a judgment by default against that party, or impose other
penalties of a lesser nature as otherwise provided by law, and may order
that party or his or her counsel to pay to the moving party the reasonable
expenses in making the motion, including reasonable attorney fees. No
penalty may be imposed under this section without prior notice to, and an
opportunity to be heard by, the party against whom the penalty is sought to be
imposed. (b) It is the intent of the Legislature that if a failure to comply
with these rules is the responsibility of counsel and not of the party, any
penalty shall be imposed on counsel and shall not adversely affect the party's
cause of action or defense thereto. (emphasis added.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs seek (1) monetary sanctions of $1,500.00
payable to the court pursuant to CCP section 177.5 for Defendant/Defense
Counsel’s violation failing to timely file its MSC Statement prior to the MSC;
and (2) Monetary sanctions of $7,760.00 payable to Plaintiffs pursuant to CCP
section 575.2 for Defendant/Defense Counsel’s failure to comply with local
rules L.A. Sup.Ct. Rules § 3.10 and § 3.245 in connection with the February 15,
2024 MSC.[7]
 
According to Defendant’s opposition, the brief was not timely filed
“[d]ue to a calendaring error.” (Opp. p. 2:18-19.) And despite
Defendant’s attempt at rectifying the issue—quickly filing a brief and
conducting the MSC on another date—Department G notified the parties that they
could not reschedule due to trial. (Opp. p. 2, see generally Exhibits [email
exchanges].) 
 
Effectively, the
issue before the court is whether Defense Counsel’s failure to file a MSC brief
by 2/5/24 due to an inadvertent calendaring error warrants imposition of
monetary sanctions. The court affirmatively answers that in the negative. 
 
a.     CCP section 177.5 
 
As noted in Plaintiffs’ motion, the purpose of CCP
section 177.5 is to “compensate public agencies for the cost of unnecessary
hearings.” (Motion p. 4, quoting Moyal v. Lanphear (1989) 208 Cal. App.
3d 491, 499.) Accordingly, the decision to impose sanctions under is in the discretion
of the trial court. (Motion p. 4, People v. Ward (2009) 173 Cal.
App. 4th 1518, 1527, emphasis added.) The trial court's discretion “‘must be
exercised in a reasonable manner with one of the statutorily authorized
purposes in mind and must be guided by existing legal standards as adapted
to the current circumstances.’” (Motion p. 4, quoting Winikow v.
Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal. App. 4th 719, 726 [citation omitted]”)
(emphasis added).[8]

 
Here, as witnessed by this court on most cases,
attorneys miscalendar dates.[9]
To hold that an inadvertent error warrants sanctions would mean the court has
engaged in an unreasonable manner, which is contrary to the standard it
is to abide by. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs contend that a
miscalendering is not a valid excuse, their cited authority does not support
that contention. (Reply p. 2, citing In re Woodham (2001) 115
Cal.Rptr.2d 431, 445.)  
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs explain that “Defendant’s
own insurance adjuster [Tara Strong] admitted to Plaintiffs that even she had
the MSC date saved on her own calendar” (Reply p. 2), it is unclear as to the
relevance of her knowledge as Defense Counsel was not CC’d on that email.
(Arshand Supp. Decl., Ex. D, p. 4 of 6 of PDF.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
violation of this Court's lawful order is not excused by good cause or
substantial justification because Defendant “has played multiple games during
this case, refusing to properly participate in Mediation by attempting to call
it off the morning of, forcing IDCs, and necessitating this Court’s
intervention by requiring the Espinozas to file Motions to Compel before it
ultimately acquiesced and participated in discovery” (Motion p. 5), the docket
does not reveal such dilatory tactics.[10]
There is no evidence that Defendant called off the MSC; to the contrary,
the court took the MSC off calendar. As for IDCs, the court docket does not
reveal multiple IDCs. In fact, the court granted Viking’s GFS in large
part due to Defendant’s failure to produce evidence and denied its
last-ditch effort to conduct discovery. Even if discovery motions were
required, discovery is but intrinsic and required (because it is evidence) in
cases. Thus, there is insufficient evidence of Defendant’s “systemic refusal
to meaningfully participate in litigation.” (Motion p. 5.)
 
Therefore, exercising its discretion in a reasonable
manner, the court denies the motion pursuant to CCP section 177.5.
 
b.     CCP Section 575.2
 
For similar reasons above, the court exercises its discretion
to deny Defendant/Defense Counsel “to pay to the moving party the reasonable
expenses in making the motion, including reasonable attorney fees.”[11]
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing—in that there is no showing that
Defendant and/or Defense Counsel has “obstruct[ed] [] the parties’ ability to
resolve this case” (Motion p. 5)—the court declines to impose sanctions. 


