  Case Number:  22STCV10036    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 22, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Bruce Dwain Copeland v. Amy Pham
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV10036            
 
 (1) MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
(2) MOTION TO DEEM TRUTH OF MATTERS IN
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Bruce Dwain Copeland, in propria persona
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Amy Pham
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/23/22: Complaint filed.
·        
03/14/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
05/24/23: Plaintiff deemed vexatious litigant.
·        
07/05/23: Notice of Appeal filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for quiet
title and injunctive relief. Plaintiff contends that Defendant is fraudulently claiming
ownership of the property in which Plaintiff resides and which he contends that
he owns.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to requests for production propounded to Defendant Amy Pham. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem the
Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Pham’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,011 against Plaintiff. Payment
is to be made within 10 days of this order. 
DISCUSSION:

Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to requests for production propounded to Defendant Amy Pham. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the Court’s November 15, 2023
Minute Order ruling on Plaintiff’s motion to compel. Defendant’s request is GRANTED
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand is directed fails to respond under Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b), a
party making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the
inspection demand. A party who fails to provide timely responses waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).) For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is
required. All that must be shown is that a set of requests for production was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response has been served. (Leach
v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks to compel responses
to requests for production served on May 5, 2023. Contrary to Plaintiff’s
assertion that the Court failed to rule on this issue previously, the Court
addressed this discovery in its November 15, 2023 ruling. As the Court then
stated, “Plaintiff had no right to propound discovery on May 5, 2023, when the
Motion to Deem Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant was pending, as the entire action
was stayed at that time.” (November 15, 2023 Minute Order p.3.) The
Court further ordered the imposition of sanctions against Plaintiff for misusing
the discovery process by persisting in pursuing improper discovery. (Id.
at p.4.) Plaintiff’s motion is therefore more properly considered a renewed
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008(b). However, Plaintiff does
not even attempt to demonstrate compliance with that statute by stating what “new
or different facts, circumstances, or law” warrant a different ruling on this
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).) 
 
Plaintiff is therefore not entitled
to an order compelling responses. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff for persisting in seeking this improper
discovery. 
 
            The
Court may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in a misuse of the
discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).) Use of a discovery method in
a manner that does not comply with its specified procedures is a misuse of the
discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(b).) Persisting, over objection
and without substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or
materials that are outside the scope of permissible discovery is also a misuse
of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(a).) 
 
            Here,
Defendant requests a total of $2,001 in sanctions against Plaintiff based on 2
hours of attorney time at $495 per hour, plus 2 additional anticipated hours,
plus $21.00 in costs. (Declaration of Larry Rothman ISO Opp. ¶ 4.) The Court
declines to award anticipated hours not actually incurred, but otherwise finds
Defendant’s fee request to be reasonable. The Court will therefore award
reduced hours in the amount of $1,011, reflecting 2 hours of attorney time at
$495 plus $21 in costs. 
 
            Defendant
also requests that the Court issue an Order to Show Cause why Plaintiff should
not be held in contempt of court for bringing an improper renewed motion,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008(d). As this subdivision
states, “a violation of [section 1008] may be punished as a contempt and with
sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(d).) Without
reaching the merits of the request, the Court is disinclined to impose such
severe penalties upon application in an opposition, rather than in a noticed
motion. In the Court’s view, requiring such an application to be made by a
separate motion harmonizes with section 1008’s citation to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7, which requires any request for sanctions be made by a
separately noticed motion. The Court therefore declines to issue an order to
show cause for contempt based on this application, without prejudice to any
application by Defendant for non-monetary relief by a separately noticed
motion. 
 
Motion to Deem Truth of
Requests for Admissions
 
Plaintiff moves to deem the truth
of matters stated in requests for admission propounded to Defendant Amy Pham.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the Court’s October 12, 2023
Minute Order ruling on Plaintiff’s motion to deem the truth of Requests for
Admissions. Defendant’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(d) (court records). 
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party
propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).)
“The court shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds
that the party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks an order deeming
the truth of matters stated in requests for admissions served on Defendant on
May 5, 2023. Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion that the Court failed to rule on
this issue previously, the Court addressed this discovery in its October 12,
2023 ruling. As the Court then stated, “Plaintiff had no right to propound
discovery on May 5, 2023, when the Motion to Deem Plaintiff a Vexatious
Litigant was pending, as the entire action was stayed at that time.”
(RJN Exh. A. p.2, 2023 Minute Order p.3.) The Court further ordered the
imposition of sanctions against Plaintiff for misusing the discovery process by
persisting in pursuing improper discovery. (Id. at p.3.) Plaintiff’s
motion is therefore more properly considered a renewed motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008(b). However, Plaintiff does not even attempt to
demonstrate compliance with that statute by stating what “new or different
facts, circumstances, or law” warrant a different ruling on this discovery.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).) 
 
            Plaintiff
is therefore not entitled to an order deeming the truth of requests for
admissions. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
also requests sanctions on this motion against Plaintiff for pursuing improper
discovery. As the request for sanctions is identical to the sanctions sought in
connection with the motion to compel, the Court declines to award further
monetary sanctions, and declines to issue an order to show cause re: contempt
for the reasons stated above. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem the
Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Pham’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,011 against Plaintiff. Payment
is to be made within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
//
 
//
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated May 22, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 