 Case Number:  23PSCV01616    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Yong Qi’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Court Action is GRANTED. The case is ordered stayed, pending
completion of the arbitration.
Background[1]  
Plaintiffs Martin Chinn and Doreen K.
Chiu (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On or about October 8,
2022, Plaintiffs, as sellers, entered into written Purchase Agreement with Yong
Qi (“Qi”), as buyer, for the sale of real property known as 3438 Fionna Place,
West Covina, CA 91792. Qi subsequently sought to renegotiate the purchase
price, which Plaintiffs rejected. Following this rejection, Qi refused to
deposit monies into escrow and move forward with the sale. 
On May 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
complaint, asserting causes of action against Qi and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
3.                 
Common Count
4.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
On August 14, 2023, Qi filed a cross-complaint,
asserting causes of action against Miranda Chen (“Chen”), APEC Enterprises,
Inc. (“APEC”) and Roes 1-10 for:
1.                 
Negligence
2.                 
Equitable Indemnity in Proportion to Fault
On January 24, 2024, Chen and APEC
filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Qi and Does 1-10
for:
1.                 
Equitable Indemnity
2.                 
Comparative Fault
3.                 
Apportionment and Contribution
4.                 
Declaratory Relief
A Case Management Conference is set
for March 4, 2024.
Legal Standard
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) and (b).)
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) The burden then
shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance of the evidence a
defense to enforcement (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.) (Id.) “In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 972.)
“If a court of competent jurisdiction. . . has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4).
Discussion
Qi moves the court for orders compelling arbitration of all
claims and causes of action between Qi and Plaintiffs and staying all further
judicial proceedings in this action pending completion of arbitration.
Merits
1.                 
Existence of
a Valid Arbitration Agreement 
Qi submits that, on or about
October 8, 2022, Qi and Plaintiffs entered into a written purchase agreement
for the purchase and sale of the real property located at 3438 Fionna Place,
West Covina, CA 91792 (“Purchase Agreement”). (Complaint, Exh. 1.) Paragraph 31
of the Purchase Agreement reads as follows:
ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES: 
A.               
The Parties agree that any dispute or claim in Law or
equity arising between
them out of this
Agreement or any resulting transaction, which is not settled 
through mediation, shall be decided
by neutral, binding arbitration. The Parties 
also agree to arbitrate any
disputes or claims with Agents(s), who, in writing, 
agree to such arbitration prior to,
or within a reasonable time after, the dispute or 
claim is presented to the Agent.
The arbitration shall be conducted through any arbitration provider or service
mutually agreed to by the Parties, 
OR ________________. The arbitrator
shall be a retired judge or justice, or an 
attorney with at least 5 years of
residential real estate Law experience, unless the 
Parties mutually agree to a
different arbitrator. Enforcement of, and any motion to compel arbitration
pursuant to, this agreement to arbitrate shall be governed by the procedural
rules of the Federal Arbitration Act, and not the California Arbitration 
Act, notwithstanding any language
seemingly to the contrary in this Agreement. 
The Parties shall have the right to
discovery in accordance with Code of Civil 
Procedure § 1283.05. The
arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with Title 
9 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. Judgment upon the award of the 
arbitrator(s) may be entered into
any court having jurisdiction.
 
B.                
EXCLUSIONS: The following matters are excluded from
mediation and 
arbitration: (i) Any matter that is
within the jurisdiction of a probate, small 
claims or bankruptcy court; (ii) an
unlawful detainer action; and (iii) a judicial 
or non-judicial foreclosure of
other action or proceeding to enforce a deed of 
trust, mortgage or installment land
sale contract as defined in Civil Code § 
2985.
 
C.                
PRESERVATION OF ACTIONS: The following shall not
constitute a 
waiver nor violation of the
mediation and arbitration provisions: (i) the filing of 
a court action to preserve a
statute of limitations; (ii) the filing of a court action 
to enable the recording of a notice
of pending action, for order of attachment, 
receivership, injunction, or other
provisional remedies; or (iii) the filing of a 
mechanic’s lien.
 
D.               
AGENTS: Agents shall not be obligated nor compelled to
mediate or 
arbitrate unless they agree to do
so in writing. Any Agents(s) participating in 
mediation or arbitration shall not
be deemed a party to this Agreement. 
 
E.                
‘NOTICE: BY INITALING IN THE SPACE BELOW YOU ARE 
AGREEING TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE
ARISING OUT OF THE 
MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE
“ARBITRATION OR DISPUTES”
PROVISION DECIDED BY NEUTRAL
ARBITRATION AS PROVIDED 
BY CALIFORNIA LAW AND YOU ARE
GIVING UP ANY RIGHTS YOU 
MIGHT POSSESS TO HAVE THE DISPUTE
LITIGATED IN A COURT 
OR JURY TRIAL. BY INITIALING IN THE
SPACE BELOW YOU ARE 
GIVING UP YOUR JUDICIAL RIGHTS TO
DISCOVERY AND APPEAL, 
UNLESS THOSE RIGHTS ARE
SPECIFICALLY INCLUDED IN THE “ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES” PROVISION. IF YOU REFUSE
TO 
SUBMIT TO ARBITRATION AFTER
AGREEING TO THIS PROVISION, 
YOU MAY BE COMPELLED TO ARBITRATE
UNDER THE AUTHORITY 
OF THE CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL
PROCEDURE. YOUR 
AGREEMENT TO THIS ARBITRATION
PROVISION IS VOLUNTARY.’
 
‘WE HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THE
FOREGOING AND AGREE 
TO SUBMIT DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF
THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN 
THE “ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES”
PROVISION TO NEUTRAL ARBITRATION.” (Id.)
 
The foregoing paragraph is
followed by Plaintiffs’ and Qi’s initials.
Plaintiffs confirm in their
complaint that they entered into the Purchase Agreement on or about October 8,
2022. (Id., ¶ 9). Plaintiffs do not dispute the existence and validity
of the above arbitration provision.
Further, the above arbitration clause encompasses the claims
in this action. Plaintiffs’ complaint filed May 30, 2023 asserts causes of
action for Breach of Contract, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing, Common Count and Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations. Plaintiffs’ claims arise out of Qi’s alleged breach of the Purchase
Agreement and/or any resulting transaction. (Id., ¶¶ 18, 28, 30 and 31).
2.                 
Waiver 
Plaintiffs, however, contend that Qi’s request for
arbitration should nevertheless be denied on the basis of waiver. “[T]he party
seeking to establish a waiver bears a heavy burden of proof.” (St. Agnes
Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195). “In determining
waiver, a court can consider (1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent
with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been
substantially invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit
before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3)
whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial
date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a
defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of
the proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking
advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had
taken place; and (6) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the
opposing party.” (Id. at 1196 [quotations and citations omitted].)
Plaintiffs argue, without more, that “[Qi] ha[s] triggered
two (2) of the St. Agnes criteria.” (Opp., 2:9-10). Plaintiffs fail to
provide the court with any information specific to Qi’s conduct in this case
which would constitute a waiver. Plaintiffs have not met their burden.
3.                 
Possibility of Conflicting Rulings 
Plaintiffs also
oppose arbitration on the basis of Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2,
subdivision (c) (i.e., “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: . . . [a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party
to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out
of the same transaction or series or related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue or law or fact. . .”).
Qi, however, is
only seeking to compel all claims and causes of action between Qi and
Plaintiffs. Qi is not seeking to compel Chen and APEC into arbitration;
instead, Qi seeks that all further judicial proceedings in this action (which
would include Qi’s cross-complaint and Chen’s/APEC’s cross-complaint) be stayed
pending completion of arbitration.
Oddly enough, Plaintiffs subsequently concede that “[t]he
matters stated in the Cross-Complaint are entirely severable from those in the
initial complaint –capable of being stayed until after arbitration is
completed. The Complaint and Cross-Complaint are not inextricably intertwined
with each other in a way which would prevent severability; nor likely to create
conflicting rulings if the former is stayed until the arbitration is complete.”
(Opp., 4:19-24).
Conclusion
The motion, then, is granted. The case is stayed, pending
completion of the arbitration, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4
(i.e., “[i]f
a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies. . .”).


