 Case Number:  23PSCV03019    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff
Shipflex Logistics LLC’s Application for Default Judgment is DENIED without
prejudice.
Background   
Plaintiff Shipflex
Logistics LLC (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On or about May 1, 2022, Plaintiff and
Defendant Polit Inc. dba Pilot Automotive Inc. (“Defendant”) entered into an
Operating Services Agreement relating to a lease at a warehouse located at
13000 Temple Ave., City of Industry, CA 91746, whereby Plaintiff would provide
transportation management and inventory management-related services in exchange
for Defendant’s payment. Defendant has failed to pay $255,952.20. 
On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Defendant and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Common Counts
On
November 21, 2023, Defendant’s default was entered.
A
Case Management Conference is set for March 4, 2024.

Discussion
Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment is denied without
prejudice. The following defects are noted:
1.                 
Plaintiff is requested to point out the attorney’s fees
clause in the Operating Services Agreement (“Agreement”) attached as Exhibit A
to the Declaration of Zhaohui Wang (“Wang”).
2.                 
Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees calculation, assuming
Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees, have been erroneously calculated
pursuant to Local Rule 3.214, subdivision (b) (i.e., for “[c]ontested case[s]”)
rather than subdivision (a). 
3.                 
The nature of the Agreement between the parties is
unclear. Plaintiff characterizes it as a “lease at a warehouse located at 13000
Temple Ave., City of Industry, CA 91746 whereby Plaintiff would provide
transportation management and inventory management related services to . . .
DEFENDANT.” (Wang Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A). The Agreement reflects that Plaintiff,
identified therein as “Party B,” was to provide third-party logistics (“3PL”)
services to Defendant, identified therein as “Party A.” (Id.) Defendant
is represented therein to “operate warehousing businesses with its warehouse
and facilities located at 13000 Temple Avenue, City of Industry, CA, 91746 (the
‘Warehouse”).” (Id.) The Agreement provides that Plaintiff’s 3PL
services were to be provided at the Warehouse (Id., ¶ 1.2) and that
Party A (i.e., Defendant”) “shall have the right to terminate this Agreement on
ninety (90) days’ prior written notice to Party A if Party B: (1) failed
to pay rent past 60 days.” (Id., ¶ 3.2(a).) The language suggests
that Plaintiff is a tenant of the Warehouse, but again, this is unclear
to the court. It is unclear whether the parties’ Agreement has terminated or is
ongoing. Wang has failed to state that Plaintiff has performed under the
Agreement (stating, “[w]ithin four years preceding the commencement of this
action, at the special instance and request of DEFENDANT, PLAINTIFF provided to
said DEFENDANT. . .;” Wang Decl., ¶ 5.)
4.                 
It is also unclear to the court how Plaintiff’s damages
were calculated. The Agreement fails to identify any monetary amounts owed by
Defendant. Although the Agreement references Schedule 2.1 for payment details,
Schedule 2.1 (entitled “Services Fee”) has all monetary amounts blocked out.
Further, Schedule 2.1 reflects that certain monies were to be paid by
“Party B,” which, again, is Plaintiff.