 Case Number:  23PSCV02728    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  K Proposed Intervenor AIG Specialty Insurance Company’s
Motion for Order Granting Leave to Intervene in Action is GRANTED.
Background   
Plaintiffs Custom Alloy Sales, Inc. (“Custom Alloy”) and
Endurance American Specialty Insurance Company (“Endurance”) (together, “Plaintiffs”)
allege as follows:
At all times relevant, Custom Alloy was
in the business of selling and manufacturing aluminum casting ingot; Thatcher
Company of Nevada, Inc. (“Thatcher”) was in the business of the dale and
delivery of chlorine. On or around September 2, 2020, Thatcher delivered a
shipment of liquid chlorine to Custom Alloy. Thatcher loaded the chlorine from
its truck into a liquid chlorine tank used in Custom Alloy’s operations. On or
around September 6, 2020, Custom Alloy discovered a leak of chlorine from the
storage tank, which eventually caused a chlorine gas “cloud.” Custom Alloy
sustained damage to the tank and incurred pollution control costs and
disruption of its normal business operations. Endurance is a surplus line
insurer that provided an insurance policy, No. ARL30000785601 to Custom Alloy,
with effective dates of October 1, 2019 to October 1, 2020 (“Policy”). Custom
Alloy submitted a claim to Endurance for its damages and was paid in excess of
$370,000.00.
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint,
asserting causes of action against Thatcher and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Negligence
2.                 
Breach of Contract
A Case Management Conference is set for April 29, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A nonparty shall
petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte
application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in
intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which
intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) 
“The court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. (B) The person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that
interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).) “The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).)
Discussion

AIG Specialty
Insurance Company (“Proposed Intervenor”) seeks an order granting leave to
intervene in the instant action and to file its proposed
Answer-in-Intervention, on the basis that its insured, Thatcher, is a forfeited
company.
“Pursuant to section 387 the trial court has discretion to
permit a nonparty to intervene where the following factors are met: (1) the
proper procedures have been followed; (2) the nonparty has a direct and
immediate interest in the action; (3) the intervention will not enlarge the
issues in the litigation; and (4) the reasons for the intervention outweigh any
opposition by the parties presently in the action.” (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383,
386.)
“An insurer’s right to intervene in an action against the
insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a result of
Insurance Code section 11580[1].” (Id.) The
only manner in which an insurer may defend or exercise the powers of its
insured suspended corporation is by intervening in the action under Code of
Civil Procedure section 387 and asserting any defenses on behalf of its
insured.  (Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. v. Performance Plastering, Inc.
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 212, 220.)
The court determines
that intervention is appropriate. Proposed Intervenor has a direct and
immediate interest in the litigation, because it may be required to satisfy any
judgment entered against its insured, Thatcher, which is presently forfeited by
the Franchise Tax Board. (Gallagher Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) In addition, intervention
by Proposed Intervenor will not enlarge the issues in this case, as Proposed
Intervenor seeks to assert all defenses on Thatcher’s behalf and litigate any
issues regarding Proposed Intervenor. Proposed Intervenor merely seeks to “step
into the shoes” of Thatcher. The motion is granted.


