 Case Number:  24STCV15755    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




roberta f. morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust
   dated September 15, 1993

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mortgage assets management,
   llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV15755




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   22, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee to the
Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated September 15, 1993

(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with the demurrer and motion to strike. 
The court considered the opposition papers filed in connection with
the demurrer and motion to strike on November 12, 2024 for the sole purpose of
determining whether plaintiff Roberta
F. Morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated September 15,
1993, has supported a request for leave to amend the Complaint.  The court has not considered the opposition
papers filed by plaintiff Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F.
Morrissey Trust dated September 15, 1993 for any other reason because they were
not filed and served at least nine court days before the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The court grants defendant Redwood Holdings,
LLC’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit G.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c); Yvanova
v. New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924, n. 1 [trial court
properly took judicial notice of recorded documents].) 
            The court denies defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC’s remaining
requests for judicial notice because those materials are not relevant to the
court’s ruling on its pending demurrer. 
(Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817,
825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material
issue”].) 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Roberta F.
Morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated September 15,
1993 (“Plaintiff”) filed this wrongful foreclosure action on June 24, 2024,
against defendants Mortgage Assets Management, LLC, PHH Mortgage Corporation,
and Redwood Holdings, LLC.  Plaintiff
alleges eight causes of action for (1) wrongful foreclosure; (2) quiet title;
(3) misrepresentation; (4) constructive fraud; (5) financial elder abuse; (6)
breach of fiduciary duty; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and
(8) declaratory relief. 
Defendant Redwood Holdings,
LLC (“Defendant”) now moves the court for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer
to each cause of action alleged against it in the Complaint, and (2) striking
from the Complaint the requests for punitive damages.  
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint, in
its entirety, on the ground that Plaintiff cannot maintain any cause of action
against it as a bona fide purchaser because Defendant has not shown (1) that,
on the face of the Complaint and judicially noticed matters, it is a bona fide
purchaser, and (2) that, even if it had shown that it is a bona fide purchaser,
Plaintiff cannot state facts sufficient to constitute any of her causes
of action against it, including for fraud and elder abuse.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
The court acknowledges that it has taken judicial notice of the recorded
“Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale,” which contains a recital that all requirements of
law regarding the mailing of copies of notices or the personal delivery of the
copy of notice of default or notice of sale have been satisfied.  (RJN Ex. G, p. 2.)  The court further acknowledges that such a
recital in the executed deed “shall constitute prima facie evidence of
compliance with these requirements and conclusive evidence thereof in favor of
bona fide purchasers and encumbrances for value and without notice.”  (Civ. Code, § 2924, subd. (c).)  But (1) this statute only establishes a
presumption of compliance with the mailing or delivery requirements, and does
not establish that Defendant was a bona fide purchaser, and (2) Plaintiff has
alleged that the sale of her property was the result of, at least in part, the fraud
committed by Defendant and the nonmoving defendants.[1]  (Ibid.; Melendrez v. D & I
Investment, Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1256 [“the general
proposition [is] that the trustor cannot set aside a foreclosure sale to a
[bona fide purchaser] ‘based on irregularities in the foreclosure sale process,
except in the case of fraud”]; Orcilla v. Big Sur, Inc. (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 982, 1000 [“‘Section 2924’s conclusive presumption language for
[bona fide purchasers] applies only to challenges to statutory compliance with
respect to default and sales notices’”].) 
Defendant also has not cited facts in the Complaint or facts of which
the court has taken judicial notice to show that it purchased the subject
property without actual or constructive notice of Plaintiff’s asserted rights
in the property.  (Melendrez, supra,
127 Cal.App.4th at p. 1251.)  Further,
while the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that
Defendant engaged in a conspiracy or aided and abetted the fraud allegedly
committed by the other nonmoving defendants, the court finds that Plaintiff’s
allegation that the property was sold to “inside” entities that were the
agents, co-conspirators, or aiders and abettors of the defendants, such that
Defendant was “not [a] good faith purchaser[] for value[,]” liberally
construed, is sufficient to allege Defendant’s actual or constructive knowledge
of Plaintiff’s rights before its purchase of the subject property.  (Ibid.; Compl., ¶ 36.) 
            The court overrules Defendant’s
demurrer to the second cause of action for quiet title because Defendant has
not shown that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against it.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.10, subd. (e), 761.020.) 
First, Defendant has cited only persuasive, and not binding, authority
in support of its assertion that Plaintiff cannot maintain a quiet title action
after the subject property is sold, and the court therefore finds that
Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff is so barred from alleging this cause of
action against it.  (Dem., pp. 9:21-10:8
[citing federal cases]; Murchison v. County of Tehama (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 867, 890, n. 12 [courts may cite and rely on unpublished federal
cases as persuasive authority].) 
Second, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff
has failed to plead tender as required because (1) the facts alleged in the
Complaint appear to show that Plaintiff has disputed the validity underlying
debt since Plaintiff has alleged, inter alia, that (i) Plaintiff was
instructed to mail all payments to defendant PHH Mortgage Corporation at its
Florida mailing address, but the envelopes that contained the repayments were
returned to sender as undeliverable because the address given to her was fake
(Compl., ¶ 29), and (ii) the Notice of Default falsely stated that Plaintiff
owed $425,859.83 but Plaintiff was instructed that she owed roughly $10,000
(Compl., ¶ 30), such that (2) Plaintiff was not required to allege tender in
support of the quiet title cause of action.[2]  (Lona v. Citibank, N.A. (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 89, 113 [an exception to the tender requirement is “if the
borrower’s action attacks the validity of the underlying debt”].)  
Third, for the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Defendant
has not shown, on the face of the Complaint and facts of which the court may
take judicial notice, that it is a bona fide purchaser.  (Dem., p. 11:14-20.) 
Finally, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged (1) a description of the
property that is the subject of this action (Compl., ¶ 47), (2) that she has
100 percent ownership in the property (Compl., ¶ 48), (3) the adverse claim of
Defendant (Compl., ¶ 49), (4) the date as of which the determination is sought
(Compl., ¶ 50), and (5) a request that the court declare that Plaintiff is the
rightful owner of the subject property (Compl., ¶ 51).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.) 
            Thus, the court finds that Defendant
has not met its burden to show that the court should sustain its demurrer to
this cause of action on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action
for constructive fraud because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against Defendant since Plaintiff has not alleged, with the
requisite particularity, that Defendant breached a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff that
caused her damages.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131 [“In its generic sense, constructive fraud comprises
all acts, omissions and concealments involving a breach of legal or equitable
duty, trust, or confidence, and resulting in damages to another”] [internal
quotation marks and citations omitted]; Knox v. Dean (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 417, 434 [“Constructive fraud, like actual fraud, must be pleaded
with specificity”].)  The court further
finds that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts establishing that
Defendant aided and abetted or conspired with nonmoving defendants Mortgage
Assets Management, LLC and PHH Mortgage Corporation to engage in the wrongful
conduct alleged (Compl., ¶ 6) because Plaintiff did not allege facts
establishing that (1) the defendants formed a conspiracy and Defendant engaged
in wrongful conduct in furtherance thereof, and (2) Defendant had actual
knowledge of defendants Mortgage Assets Management, LLC and PHH Mortgage
Corporation’s alleged wrongful conduct and gave them substantial assistance or
encouragement to so act.  (Contreras
v. Dowling (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 394, 416 [elements of civil conspiracy]; American
Master Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1475
[liability based on theory of aiding and abetting].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for financial elder abuse because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing
that Defendant (1) took, secreted, appropriated, or retained real property of
an elder for a wrongful use (i.e., that Defendant knew or should have known
that taking property was likely to be harmful to Plaintiff) or with intent to
defraud, or (2) assisted in taking, secreting, appropriating, or retaining real
property of an elder for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Compl.,
¶ 73 [alleging the improper taking was done with intent to defraud and for a
wrongful use]; Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subds. (a)(1), (a)(2), (b).) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress because it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged facts establishing that Defendant (1) engaged in conduct that was so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community, and
therefore has not alleged the element of extreme and outrageous behavior, or
(2) conspired with or aided and abetted the other defendants in committing this
intentional tort.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273
[elements of intentional infliction of emotional distress].) 
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action
for declaratory relief because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Defendant for the reasons set forth in connection with the
second cause of action for quiet title. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10, subd. (e), 1060; Compl., ¶ 93 [requesting a
judicial determination that the sale of the property was void].) 
The burden is on the plaintiff
“to articulate how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he
can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of
his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  As set forth above, the court has considered
Plaintiff’s untimely opposition to the demurrer for the limited purpose of
determining whether Plaintiff has requested, and supported a request, for leave
to amend.  The court finds that Plaintiff
has not articulated how she can amend her fourth, fifth, and seventh causes of
action to render them sufficient against Defendant.  The court therefore sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to those causes of action without leave to amend.
MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant moves the court for an
order striking Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages set forth in
paragraphs 69, 77, and 91 of the Complaint. 
            The court denies as moot Defendant’s
motion to strike the requests for punitive damages set forth in paragraphs 69,
77, and 91, because those requests are alleged in support of the fourth, fifth,
and seventh causes of action, to which the court has sustained Defendant’s
demurrer without leave to amend for the reasons set forth above.
            The court notes that Defendant did
not move for an order striking the prayer for exemplary damages set forth on
page 19, line 3 of the Complaint. 
However, because the court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer to each
cause of action requesting punitive damages against Defendant, the court
exercises its discretion to strike paragraph 2 of the prayer against
Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a) [the court may, at any time in its discretion, strike out improper
matter inserted in any pleading].) 
ORDER
            The court overrules defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC’s demurrer to
plaintiff Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust
dated September 15, 1993’s second cause of action for quiet title and eighth
cause of action for declaratory relief. 
            The court sustains defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC’s demurrer to
plaintiff Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust
dated September 15, 1993’s fourth cause of action for fraud, fifth cause of
action for financial elder abuse, and seventh cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress without leave to amend.  
            The court denies as moot defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC’s motion to
strike portions of complaint. 
            The
court orders that paragraph 2 of the prayer against defendant Redwood Holdings,
LLC for “exemplary damages,” set forth on page 19, line 3 of plaintiff Roberta
F. Morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F. Morrissey Trust dated September 15,
1993’s Complaint, is stricken without leave to amend. 
            The court orders defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC to file an
answer to plaintiff Roberta F. Morrissey, as trustee to the Roberta F.
Morrissey Trust dated September 15, 1993’s Complaint no later than 10 days from
the date of this order.
            The court orders defendant Redwood Holdings, LLC to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 22, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


