 Case Number:  21AHCV00145    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  X (The court has just reviewed both the Opposition to deem RFA admitted and the Declaration by P counsel and may change its ruling regarding RFA's being admitted after the hearing)  Tentative Ruling   Judge Joel L. Lofton,  Department X     HEARING DATE:     October  3, 2023                                              TRIAL DATE: April 2, 2024                                                              CASE:                         EVA  LEUNG-HENGSTEBECK v. KEN HAASE, and DOES 1-10, inclusive.    CROSS:                      KEN HAASE v. EVA  LEUNG-HENGSTEBECK   CASE NO.:                 21GDCV00848                  DISCOVERY  MOTIONS     MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Ken Haase   RESPONDING PARTY:      No  response filed.    SERVICE:                              Filed July 27, 2023, and August 7, 2023   RELIEF  REQUESTED                 Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide a response to his  requests for the production of documents and special interrogatories. Defendant  also moves for an order deeming the truth of the matters asserted in his  requests for admissions admitted.   BACKGROUND               This case arises out of Plaintiff  Eva Leung-Hengstebeck’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant Ken Haase  (“Defendant”) engaged in unlawful conduct related to Plaintiff’s lease.  Plaintiff alleges she was a residential tenant of Defendant at 2395 Roanoke Road,  San Marino, California (“Subject Property”) under a lease executed on April 26,  2020.                Plaintiff filed this complaint on  June 18, 2021, alleging eleven causes of action for (1) deceit, (2) false  promise fraud, (3) constructive eviction, (4) trespass, (5) rescission, (6)  nuisance, (7) relocation assistance, (8) invasion of privacy, (9) harassment,  (10) forcible detainer, and (11) retaliation. Defendant filed a cross-complaint  on September 8, 2021, alleging five causes of action for (1) breach of  contract, (2) trespass, (3) conversion, (4) trespass to chattels, and (5)  negligence.                      TENTATIVE RULING               Defendant’s  motions to compel discovery responses is GRANTED.               Plaintiff  is ordered to provide responses without objections to Defendant’s requests for  the production of documents and special interrogatories within 10 days of the  date of this order.               Defendant’s  motion to deem the truth of the matters asserted in his RFAs admitted is  GRANTED.               Defendant’s  request for sanctions is granted in the amount of $500.               LEGAL STANDARD   If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely  response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order  compelling a response to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. section  2030.290, subd. (b).) The same applies to a party that fails to respond to a  request for document production. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.300, subd. (b).)   Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), provides that  if a party fails to respond to a request for admission, “[t]he requesting party  may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of  any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted”.   DISCUSSION               Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to  provide a response to his requests for the production of documents and special  interrogatories. Defendant also moves for an order deeming the truth of the  matters asserted in his requests for admissions admitted. Defendant provides he  served Plaintiff with requests for admissions and requests for the production  of documents on June 15, 2023, and special interrogatories on June 24, 2023.  (Kent Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendant provides he has  not received any response or communication from Plaintiff related to the  discovery requests. (Id. ¶ 4.)                Defendant  had established he served Plaintiff with discovery requests, but Plaintiff  failed to respond.    CONCLUSION               Defendant’s  motions to compel discovery responses is GRANTED.               Plaintiff  is ordered to provide responses without objections to Defendant’s requests for  the production of documents and special interrogatories within 10 days of the  date of this order.               Defendant’s  motion to deem the truth of the matters asserted in his RFAs admitted is  GRANTED.               Defendant’s  request for sanctions is granted in the amount of $500.                    Dated:   October 3,  2023                                             ___________________________________                                                                                     Joel  L. Lofton                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court   Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court  indicating their  intention  to submit.  Parties intending to appear  are strongly encouraged to appear remotely.   alhdeptx@lacourt.org 