  Case Number:  20GDCV00638    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 3, 2023                                              TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         YIN-FANG CHEN, an
individual; HUNGYEN KE, an individual; and SHAWNARIEL INTERNATIONAL INC, a
California corporation, v. JOE TSENG, an individual; PLATINUM CAPITAL PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT INC., a California corporation; PLATINUM CAPITAL LLC, a dissolved
California limited liability company; PLATINUM CAPITAL 10 LLC, a California
limited liability company; PLATINUM CAPITAL 11 LLC, a California limited
liability company; ALBA INVESTMENTS LLC, a dissolved California limited
liability company; VIVA CARE RCFE 2 INC. a suspended California corporation;
and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 20GDCV00638
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Joe Tseng, Platinum
Capital Property Management Inc, Platinum Capital LLC, and ALBA Investments LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed August 11, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendants move for attorney’s fees totaling $89,590.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Yin-Fang
Chen, Hungyen Ke, and Shawnariel International Inc’s (“Plaintiffs”) claim that
Defendants engaged in an EB-5 immigrant investor visa program fraud scheme.
Plaintiffs filed their initial complaint on August 4, 2020, alleging nine
causes of action. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Tseng’s motion for attorney’s fees is GRANTED against
Plaintiff Shawnareial International Inc. for a total of $39,750.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs initially filed their complaint on August 4, 2020. On May 11,
2023, Defendants moved to dismiss Plaintiffs’ complaint based on Plaintiffs’
failure to prosecute this case. On June 15, 2023, this court granted
Defendants’ motion to dismiss. Now, Defendants move for attorney’s fees
totaling $89,590.
 
            “In any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides
that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that
contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing
party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified
in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition
to other costs.” (Civ. Code section 1717, subd. (a).)
 
            “
‘Prevailing party’ includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant
in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor
defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who
do not recover any relief against that defendant. . . . .”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
 
            Here,
dismissal was granted after Defendant’s motion, and Defendant is the prevailing
party in the action. Defendants provide that the basis for the present motion
based on identical contractual provisions contained in two contracts which provide:
“In any action or proceeding arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing
party between Landlord and Tenant shall be entitled to reasonable attorney fees
and costs.” (Tseng Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Exhibits A and B paragraph 39.) The
lease agreement formed the basis of claims found in both Plaintiffs’ complaint
and Defendants’ cross-complaint. However, the parties to the contract are Joe
Tseng and Shawnareial International Inc. Thus, the motion for attorney’s fees
is only effective between Defendant Tseng and Plaintiff Shawnariel
International Inc.   
 
            Defendants seeks attorney’s fees totaling
$89,590 covering the services by two separate law firms. Tseng provides that Rimon,
PC represented him in this matter until April 2023, when he retained Albright,
Yee & Schmit, APC (“AYS”) to represent him. (Tseng Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant seeks $25,410 for services
rendered by Rimon Law and $64,180 for services provided by AYS.  I will note that in their own moving papers
the Defendants stated (quite accurately) that the Plaintiffs did nothing to prosecute
this case: no written discovery was propounded; no depositions were taken or
defended; no motions were litigated (that were actually opposed); no experts
designated; and of course, no contested trial was required.  Alen Chen filed his notice of substitution on
May 2, 2023, and Plaintiffs case was dismissed a little over a month later on
June 15, 2023.  With these facts in mind
the court will begin its discussion about reasonable fees.
            
             “[T]he fee setting
inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number
of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) “The reasonable hourly rate
is that prevailing in the community for similar work.” (Ibid.) Once the
lodestar figure is calculated, a court may adjust the award based on factors
such as “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the
skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the
litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent
nature of the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1132.) “The purpose of such adjustment is to fix a fee at the fair market value
for the particular action.” (Ibid.) 
 
            Tseng’s
present motion contains various issues regarding the calculation of the
lodestar fee. First, Tseng’s request for fees for services provided by Rimon
Law is based on an estimation absent any supporting information. Tseng provides
he has paid Rimon Law $12,510 expects to pay an additional amount of “at least
$12,900”. (Tseng Decl. ¶ 7.) However, Tseng fails to provide how many
hours that calculation entails nor does Tseng provide a breakdown of the work
provided on the case. Tseng merely provides that Rimon Law charged $450 per
hour. (Id. ¶
8.) Tseng also does not demonstrate that he did pay the amount he states he
paid Rimon Law. 
 
            Additionally,
Tseng seeks fees provided by AYS for 158.4 hours worked. AYS provides a broad
strokes breakdown of hours provided but does not specifically list the hours
worked on tasks. “Block billing occurs when ‘a block of time [is assigned] to
multiple tasks rather than itemizing the time spent on each task.’ (Mountjoy
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 266, 280.) Further, Tseng
fails to demonstrate that the fees were based on a reasonable number of hours
expended. For example, AYS seeks recovery for 19.3 hours for two days of depositions
where none of the deponents showed. More generally, AYS seeks nearly 160 hours
for less than four months of representation, at the time of filing of this
motion, where Plaintiffs were completely nonresponsive. Additionally, Tseng
seeks recovery for additional staff worked without any attempt to delineate the
work provided to ensure the sought after fees are not excessive or repetitive. (Sachani
Decl. ¶¶14-16.) 
 
            The court finds that the reasonable
number of hours for services provided by Rimon Law to total 35 hours at $450
per hour for a total of $15,750. Further, the court finds that the reasonable
numbers of hours for services provided by AYS to total 60 hours at a blended
rate of $400 for a total of $24,000. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Tseng’s motion for attorney’s fees is GRANTED against
Plaintiff Shawnareial International Inc. for a total of $39,750.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
            
Dated:   October 3,
2023                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court

Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit. 
Parties intending to appear are strongly encouraged to appear remotely.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
