 Case Number:  21GDCV00932    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
3, 2023                                  TRIAL
DATE: October 24, 2023 
                                                           
CASE:                         JOHNNY TRANG, an
individual, v. CITY OF PASADENA, a public entity, VAROOJAN AVEDIAN, an
individual; SUZANNE STONE, an individual; and DOES 1 through 30,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV00932
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants the City of Pasadena,
Varoojan Avedian and Suzanne Stone
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Johnny Trang
 
SERVICE:                              Filed July 10, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed August 29, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed September 28, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendants
the City of Pasadena, Varoojan Avedian and Suzanne Stone move for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action
for work environment harassment.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff’s
Johnny Trang (“Plaintiff”) claim that he was subjected to discrimination during
his employment with the City of Pasadena. Plaintiff filed this complaint on
July 15, 2021, alleging seven causes of action for (1) disability
discrimination, (2) work environment harassment, (3) retaliation, (4) failure
to prevent harassment discrimination and retaliation, (5) retaliation, (6)
failure to provide reasonable accommodation, and (7) failure to engage in good
faith interactive process. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is
GRANTED. 
 
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE 
 
            Defendant’s
objections numbers 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, and 13 are sustained.
 
            Defendant’s
objections numbers 3, 8, 9, 10, and 12, are overruled. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  
 
“ Generally, a defendant moving for summary
adjudication must present evidence that either ‘conclusively negate[s] an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action’ or ‘show[s] that the plaintiff does
not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,’ evidence necessary to establish at
least one element of the cause of action. [citation]” (Cornell v. Berkley
Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 
924-25.) “If the [defendant] satisfies its initial burden, the burden shifts to
the [plaintiff] to set forth ‘specific facts’ showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists. [citation]” (Id. at p. 925.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Overview
 
            Defendants move for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second cause
of action for harassment under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”).
 
            To
bring a claim for harassment, Plaintiff must demonstrate that (1) he is a
member of a protected class; (2) he was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3)
the harassment was based on his protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with his work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are liable for the
harassment. (Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549,
563.) “ ‘[A]n employee claiming harassment based upon a hostile work environment
must demonstrate that the conduct complained of was severe enough or
sufficiently pervasive to alter the conditions of employment and create a work
environment that qualifies as hostile or abusive to employees because of their
[protected status].’ [Citation.] ‘The harassment cannot be occasional,
isolated, sporadic, or trivial; the plaintiff must show a “ ‘concerted pattern
of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ ” ’ ” (Id.
at p. 564.) 
 
            Summary
Adjudication as to Defendant Stone
 
            Suzanne
Stone (“Stone”) moves for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s claim for
harassment on the grounds that her actions do not amount to harassment under
FEHA, Plaintiff is unable demonstrate the purported harassment was based on
Plaintiff’s protected status, and Plaintiff is unable to demonstrate that the
harassment was based on his protected status. 
 
            Stone was
employed as a human resources analyst and personnel manager with the city of
Pasadena. (SSUF No. 8.) Stone did not supervise Plaintiff had interacted with
Plaintiff regarding human resources matters. (SSUF No. 9.) Plaintiff contends
that Stone harassed him via various emails that contained false or derogatory
statements. (Opposition at pp. 18:18-19:27.) 
 
First, Plaintiff contends that on
October 10, 2014, Stone sent an email commenting on Plaintiff’s performance at
work which was placed in Plaintiff’s personnel file. (SSUF No. 21.) Plaintiff
discovered the email in his file around January 2020 and requested to have it
removed. (SSUF No. 21.) Plaintiff also contends that Stone sent a “harassing”
email stating that Avedian was aware of the accommodations provided to
Plaintiff in the past and was supportive of it, which Plaintiff contends is a
“patently false”. (Plaintiff Additional Separate Statement (“PSS”) No. 45.)
Plaintiff also contends that Stone reminded him that management can approve or
deny accommodations. (PSS No. 45.)
 
Plaintiff also contends that after
his brother informed the city of Plaintiff’s desire to file a worker’s
compensation claim, Stone replied that they were being sensitive and respectful
towards Plaintiff and that Plaintiff had agreed to move to another locations.
(PSS No. 47, Exhibit V.) Plaintiff also claims that Stone falsely inflated the
number of people that would be required to be relocated to accommodate
Plaintiff. (PSS No. 47.) Plaintiff also contends that Stone sent a harassing
email to Alexander Souto on July 15, 2019, regarding Plaintiff’s requests and
that Plaintiff did not have a valid doctor’s note. (Exhibit X.) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Stone’s various emails amount of harassment under FEHA. Plaintiff’s
arguments, in part, rest on the fact that Plaintiff contends that the
statements are false. “ ‘[H]arassment focuses on situations in which the social environment of the workplace becomes
intolerable because the harassment (whether verbal, physical, or visual)
communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee.’ [Citation.]” (Doe
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th
721, 736 (“Doe”.) 
 
“ ‘Whether the conduct of the
alleged harassers was sufficiently severe or pervasive to create a hostile or
abusive working environment depends on the totality of the circumstances. “
‘These may include the frequency of the discriminatory conduct; its severity;
whether it is physically threatening or humiliating, or a mere offensive
utterance; and whether it unreasonably interferes with an employee's work
performance.’ ” [Citations.] “ ‘Common sense, and an appropriate sensibility to
social context, will enable courts and juries to distinguish between simple
teasing or roughhousing ... and conduct [that] a reasonable person in the
plaintiff's position would find severely hostile or abusive.’ ” ’ (Serri v.
Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 870.)
 
Stone has demonstrated that
Plaintiff is unable to show that her conduct constitutes harassment. First,
Plaintiff is unable to demonstrate that any comments made by Stone were
harassing or derogatory. Rather, Plaintiff mainly questions the veracity of the
statements Stone made in her emails. Plaintiff assertions that Stone was lying
or had ulterior motives are insufficient to make her statements rises to the
level of harassment. Further, Stone has demonstrated that Plaintiff is unable
to demonstrate that the alleged conduct was sufficiently severe or pervasive.
Several of the emails were not directed at Plaintiff. Additionally, the emails
contain Stone’s recollection or recitation of events as she communicated with
interested parties involving Plaintiff’s claims and requests for accommodations,
which is related to her position. 
 
For example, Plaintiff is unable to
demonstrate that Stone acted to harass him by reminding him of the fact that
supervisors are able to approve  or deny
requests for accommodations. In essence, Plaintiff has demonstrated that he
subjectively felt harassed by Stone’s emails but nothing more. However,
“harassment must satisfy an objective and a subjective standard.” (Galvan, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 564.) Stone has demonstrated that Plaintiff is
unable to establish his claim for harassment under FEHA against her, and
Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Stone’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is granted.
 
            Summary
Judgment as to Varoojan Avedian
 
            Defendant Varoojan
Avedian also moves for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for harassment. Avedian primarily argues that Plaintiff’s claims are
based on actions that are within Avedian’s supervisory discretion. Thus,
Avedian argues that Plaintiff’s claim fail to establish conduct that rises to
the level of harassment.
 
            “Put
differently, ‘[h]arassment claims are based on a type of conduct that is avoidable and unnecessary to
job performance. No supervisory employee needs to use slurs or derogatory
drawings, to physically interfere with freedom of movement, to engage
in unwanted sexual advances, etc., in order to carry out the legitimate
objectives of personnel management. Every supervisory employee can insulate
himself or herself from claims of harassment by refraining from such conduct.
An individual supervisory employee cannot, however, refrain from engaging in
the type of conduct which could later give rise to a discrimination claim.
Making personnel decisions is an inherent and unavoidable part of the
supervisory function.’ ” (Doe v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 721, 736-37.)  
 
            Plaintiff
claims involve various interactions he had with Avedian during his employment
with the City of Pasadena. Avedian was hired as the engineering manager for the
power delivery unit of the City of Pasadena’s department of water and power.
(SSUF No. 6.) Avedian supervised Plaintiff’s supervisors rather than
supervising Plaintiff directly. (SSUF No. 7.) Plaintiff asserts that Avedian
harassed him around August of 2017 when Avedian removed Plaintiff’s
accommodation and gave him unwarranted negative performance evaluation. (SSUF
No. 10.) Plaintiff asserts that Avedian unfairly relocated his training and
gave Plaintiff a negative performance evaluation because Plaintiff did not
order him a polo shirt. (SSUF Nos. 11-12.) Plaintiff also asserts that Avedian
acted improperly towards him during social interactions and workplace
encounters. (SSUF No. 13-15.) Plaintiff asserts that Avedian acted improperly
towards him during Plaintiff’s attempts to obtain disability accommodations.
(SSUF No. 16-20.) 
 
            Avedian
argues that the conduct falls within his duties and abilities as a supervisor
and cannot rise to the level of harassment. Avedian has met his initial burden
of demonstrating that the conduct at issue falls within his discretion as a
supervisor and thus does not rise to the level of harassment. The burden now shifts
to the Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact.  This however was made more difficult because
Plaintiff has failed to properly comply with the requirements of a separate statement.
 
            “The
opposition papers shall include a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed,
indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those
facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and
concisely any other material facts the opposing
party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party
to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.
Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a
sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. section 473c, subd. (b)(3).) Emphasis added. Additional requirements
for separate statements are found in California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350.
 
            “The
requirement of a separate statement from the moving party and a responding
statement from the party opposing summary judgment serves two functions: to
give the parties notice of the material facts at issue in the motion and to
permit the trial court to focus on whether those facts are truly undisputed.” (Parkview
Villas Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 1197, 1210.) The purpose of a separate statement is “defeated
where, as here, the trial court is forced to wade through stacks of documents,
the bulk of which fail to comply with the substantive requirements of section 437c, subdivision (b)(3), or the formatting
requirements of rule 342, in an effort to cull through the argument and
determine what evidence is admitted and what remains at issue. The realization
of this goal is so important that the Legislature has determined ‘[f]ailure to
comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a
sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.’ ” (Rush
v. White Corp. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1086, 1101.)  
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants’ statement of facts as well as his
statement of additional facts are deficient. For example, in response to
Defendant’s statement of fact number 10, Plaintiff submits three pages of
arguments and contentions that are supposedly supported by roughly 19 citations
to the evidence with no indication of what evidence supports which contention.
Further, Plaintiff’s additional statements of facts are replete with compounds
statements that are more akin to arguments rather than statements of undisputed
facts. For example, Plaintiff’s additional facts numbers 26 through 30 each
contain multiple “facts” where Plaintiff includes editorial comments.
Plaintiff’s additional fact number 30 concludes with the statement that: “In
short, Mr. Avedian again used his authority to bully and harass Plaintiff for
his disability and his requests to engage in the goof faith interactive process
and for his requests for a reasonable accommodation[.]”
 
            Plaintiff’s
opposition separate statement and additional separate statement are deficient,
which the Legislature has stated is sufficient grounds to grant a motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. section 473c, subdivision (b)(3).) Trial courts have the
inherent power to strike proposed “undisputed facts” that fail to
comply with the statutory requirements and that are formulated so as to impede
rather than aid an orderly determination whether the case presents
triable material issues of fact. Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc., 121 Cal.
App. 4th 95, 106. Therefore, the court
strikes Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Additional Material Facts # 22,23,24,27,30,31,32,33,39,41
&43.
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff’s also fail on a substantive level. The facts of Doe are
instructive in the present case. “[Plaintiff] argues the evidence of Dr. Castro
criticizing his work during an uncomfortable meeting, suspecting him of
bringing a cell phone into work, ordering a wellness check on him, piling work
on him when he was supposed to attend a union conference, and withholding
permission to leave early to make a doctor's appointment constitutes a
pervasive pattern of abusive conduct that meets the definition of harassment.
We disagree.” (Doe, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p. 737.) The Court also held
that “the behavior Doe identifies is not harassment because it was not
avoidable conduct superfluous to Dr. Castro's job description.” (Ibid.)
            Here, like in Doe,
Plaintiff complains of actions that fall within Avedian’s role as a supervisor.
Each of the complaints, whether it’s the performance evaluations or Avedian’s
decision to relocate Plaintiff, are related to Avedian’s role as a supervisor. Further,
Avedian has demonstrated that his actions “were not so severe as to ‘alter the conditions of
[Plaintiff’s] employment’ or create an ‘ “abusive working environment.” ’
” (Doe, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p. 737.) “Workplaces can be
stressful and relationships between supervisors and their subordinates can
often be contentious. But FEHA was not designed to make workplaces more
collegial; its purpose is to eliminate more insidious behavior like
discrimination and harassment based on protected characteristics.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether
Avedian’s conduct rises to the level of actionable harassment. Lastly, because
Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether the City’s
employees harassed him, his claims against the City fail as well.
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is
GRANTED. 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 3,
2023                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit. 
Parties intending to appear are strongly encouraged to appear remotely.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
