  Case Number:  22PSCV01623    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Kung  Alan Chang v. Celestial Fortune, LLC, et al.  1.       Defendant  Sistine Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly’s Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint; and 2.       Defendant  Sistine Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly’s Motion  to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING             The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Although Plaintiff did not oppose the  demurrer, the Court will allow Plaintiff an opportunity to make an offer of  proof as to why leave to amend should be granted.              The Court DENIES the motion to  strike as moot.              Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of same within five calendar  days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND This is an elder abuse case. On November 2,  2022, Plaintiff Kung Alan Chang (Plaintiff), by and through her guardian ad  litem, Kelly Chang, filed this action. On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed the  operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants Sistine Manor, Inc.,  Springville Residential Care for the Elderly, and Does 1 through 100, alleging  a single cause of action for elder abuse and neglect.  On September 20, 2023, Defendant Sistine  Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly[1] (Defendant) filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike to the FAC. The  demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed. Defendant Sistine Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for  the Elderly’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint  LEGAL STANDARD – Demurrer             A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal  sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding  the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.  Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function of the  demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of  ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be  true. (Id.)              A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881  [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer];  see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169  Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v.  Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents  or release not part of court record].)              A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of the  complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a superseded complaint in  the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see  also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505  [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])   A  demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  PRELIMINARY ISSUE             The  Court notes that Defendant’s memorandum of points and authorities is 12 pages  long but contains no table of contents or table of authorities as is required  for memorandums exceeding 10 pages in length. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1113, subd. (f).) The Court will still consider Defendant’s demurrer but admonishes  Defendant to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court  going forward.  DISCUSSION – Demurrer Meet and Confer Per Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and  confer before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  The Court finds Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer insufficient, as there  is no evidence they met and conferred telephonically or in person. (Asiryan  Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule the demurrer for failure to adequately  meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court  admonishes Defendant to comply with these requirements going forward.  First  Cause of Action – Elder Abuse and Neglect The  elements of a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect are determined by the  Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (EADACPA). (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq.) The EADACPA  defines “neglect” as “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or custody of  an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable  person in a like position would exercise.” (Welf. & Inst. Code §  15610.57.) Neglect under the EADACPA “refers not to the substandard performance  of medical services but, rather, to the failure of those responsible for  attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults,  regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial  obligations. Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not of the undertaking  of medical services, but of the failure to provide medical care.” (Sababin  v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 89, quotation marks and  citation omitted, italics in original.)  Several  factors  “must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the  Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the  Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing  evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for  meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition,  hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder  or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3)  denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent  adult's basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially  certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges  oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high  probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The  plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing  evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer  physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the  neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury  must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the pleading rules  governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC  (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, quotation marks and internal citations  omitted.)  Defendant demurs to the  FAC on the grounds that it fails to plead facts with sufficient particularity,  fails to plead facts amounting to egregious abuse or neglect, and fails to  plead facts sufficient to show that Defendant acted with recklessness,  oppression, fraud, or malice. Defendant also contends the FAC fails to plead  facts that show involvement by an officer, director, or managing agent of a  corporate defendant.  The Court agrees.  Elder abuse claims must  be pled with sufficient particularity. (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise  Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410, internal citation omitted.) The  Court finds that the FAC does not plead facts with sufficient particularity to  support Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim here. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew  of Plaintiff’s bed sores, and that Plaintiff’s inattention to those bed sores led  to Plaintiff requiring multiple surgeries. (FAC, ¶¶ 11-15.) However, these  allegations are conclusory and unsupported by facts to show how or when Defendant  knew of Plaintiff’s bed sores, how Defendant was inattentive, or how  Defendant’s actions caused Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. Other than conclusory  allegations of failing to take care of Plaintiff, the FAC contains no  allegations describing Defendant’s actions or otherwise showing Defendant  denying or withholding goods or services from Plaintiff.  Further, it appears that  later portions of the FAC were copied from another complaint in that they refer  to the plaintiff as “him” or “his”, and discuss prevention of falls and  malnutrition (FAC, ¶¶ 25, 26), which is not consistent with the earlier  allegations indicating the plaintiff is a woman and suffered from bed sores and  an infection. (FAC, ¶¶ 2, 11-18).  Moreover, the FAC  contains no allegations to show involvement or ratification by an officer,  director, or managing agent of Defendant. The FAC does not even identify a  single employee of Defendant who was purportedly responsible for Plaintiff’s  care. The FAC also fails to allege facts showing how Defendant engaged in any  egregious abuse or neglect, or acted with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or  malice.  Finally, the Court  construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition as a tacit admission that Defendant’s  arguments are meritorious here. (Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 504, 418; C.  Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)  Therefore,  the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint with  leave to amend.  Defendant  Sistine Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly’s Motion  to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike             “The Court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or  filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of  the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (b)(2).)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike Meet and Confer Per Code of Civil  Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and  confer telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s efforts to meet  and confer insufficient, as there is no evidence they met and conferred  telephonically or in person. (Asiryan Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Nevertheless,  the Court may not deny the motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and  confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court admonishes Defendant  to comply with these requirements going forward.  Analysis In  light of the Court sustaining the demurrer to the FAC, Defendant’s motion to  strike is moot.  Therefore,  the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to strike as moot.  CONCLUSION              The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Although Plaintiff did not oppose the demurrer, the Court will allow Plaintiff an opportunity to make an offer of proof as to why leave to amend should be granted.             The Court DENIES the motion to strike as moot.             Defendant is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of same within five calendar days of the Court’s order.     