 Case Number:  22STCV02810    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce Iwasaki 
Department 58 
 
Hearing Date:              May
7, 2024
Case Name:                 Lopez v. Fell, et al.
Case No.:                    22STCV02810                   
Motion:                       Motion
to Bifurcate
Moving Party:             Defendants
Cliff Fell and Califa Catering, LLC

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Robert Lopez

 
Tentative Ruling:  The motion to bifurcate is denied.

 

 
This is an action for employment and disability
discrimination and harassment. The First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleges that
Plaintiff Robert Lopez (Plaintiff0 worked for Defendants Califa Catering LLC
and Cliff Fell, who assigned Plaintiff to a position catering for Defendant
Natural Hair Productions. (FAC ¶¶ 25–37.) Plaintiff was terminated days after
seeking leave for an MRI appointment related to a hand injury. (FAC ¶¶ 41–45.)
Trial in this matter is set for July 29, 2024. Defendants
Califa and Fell filed the present motion to bifurcate on August 15, 2023.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on September 19, 2023. Defendants filed a reply
on April 30, 2024.
Legal Standard
“The court, in furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action . . .
or of any separate issue . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)
Additionally, “[t]he court may, when
the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any
part thereof in the case . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
“It is within the discretion of the
court to bifurcate issues or order separate trials of actions, such as for
breach of contract and bad faith, and to determine the order in which those
issues are to be decided.” (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co., Inc. v. Ranger
Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 205.) “The major objective of
bifurcated trials is to expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.” (Foreman
& Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)
Defendants Café
Califa and Cliff Fell (Defendants) seek to bifurcate trial into a first phase
to determine Defendants’ liability — whether they discriminated or retaliated
against Plaintiff Robert Lopez (Plaintiff) — and a second phase to determine
Plaintiff’s damages. (Motion at p. 1.) Defendants argue that such an order
would promote efficiency by potentially eliminating the need for a damages
phase. (Motion at p. 2.)
No bifurcation is
warranted, as Defendants’ case for efficiency depends entirely upon a verdict
in the liability phase of trial in their favor. Without such a verdict,
bifurcation is likely to substantially increase the burden of trial upon all
parties, the court, and the jury. If liability is found, the jury would be
required to hear additional testimony, a second round of closing arguments,
additional jury instructions, and a second round of jury deliberations. Thus
bifurcation here risks more inefficiency than Defendants propose to reduce.
Defendants argue that
Defendant Natural Hair Productions was only added as a defendant with
Plaintiff’s filing of the FAC on April 8, 2024, and that because this Defendant
has not appeared, ruling on the present motion should be continued to allow
input from this new defendant. (Reply at p. 3.) But Defendant does not
articulate how the introduction of this new defendant favors bifurcation. Based
on the showing made in this motion, no such order is necessary.
The motion to
bifurcate the trial is therefore denied.
 
 