 Case Number:  23NWCV02313    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  C National Commercial Recovery,
Inc. vs Bachi Yaki, Inc., et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV02313
Hearing Date: September 10, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#9
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff National Commercial Recovery, Inc.’s unopposed
Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ORDERED to file and serve the
Second Amended Complaint within 10 days. 

Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
Plaintiff National Commercial Recovery, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint on July 25, 2023 against Defendants seeking collection of
$25,707.90 in unpaid invoices for wholesale meats sold by Plaintiff's assignor,
EG Meat & Provisions, Inc., to defendant between May 21, 2021, and June 11,
2021.  
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint which added a cause of action for Fraudulent Transfer of Real
Property against Defendant SYLVIA CANTU.
Legal
Standard 
CRC, rule 3.1324(a) provides: 
(a) Contents of motion 
 
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must: 
 
(1) Include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; 
(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and 
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, 
the additional
allegations are located.
 
(b) Supporting
declaration 
 
A separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: 
(1) The effect of the
amendment; 
(2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper; 
(3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and 
(4) The reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. 
 
“While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. (Citation.) And it is a rare case
in which ‘a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.’ (Citation.) If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  
 
Discussion 
Here, Plaintiff seeks leave to
amend her Complaint to include a separate fraud claim against
"Sylvia Cantu as Trustee of "The 20446 Willoughby Lane Trust Dated
September 21, 2022".  Plaintiff contends Defendant
Slyvia Cantu fraudulently transferred another real property she owned into a
trust "The 20446 Willoughby Lane
Trust Dated September 21, 2022" without any consideration paid in
exchange. The alleged fraudulent transfer involved real property located at
20446 Willoughby Lane, Northridge, CA 91326.
Further, Plaintiff seeks to amend the name of
Defendant SYLVIA CANTU to add the additional aliases with the spelling of her
first name as "Silvia" because that is the way it is spelled in the
deeds that she recorded.
Plaintiff
has fulfilled the procedural requirements of CRC, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration addresses the effects of the amendments (Besnyl Decl., ¶¶
4-6), why the amendment is necessary and proper (Besnyl Decl., ¶¶ 4 and 6),
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered (Besnyl
Decl., ¶ 4), and the reasons the amendments were not made earlier (Besnyl
Decl., ¶ 4). 
 
The
Court determines that Plaintiff’s motion is timely made and denying the motion
would deprive Plaintiff of her right to assert a potentially meritorious cause
of action.   
 
Defendant
must show that she is prejudiced by the amendment. 
As of September 5, 2024, Defendant has
not filed an opposition.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff National Commercial Recovery, Inc.’s
motion for leave to file second amended complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ORDERED to file and serve the Second
Amended Complaint within 10 days.  