 Case Number:  24NWCV03010    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  C Ortega,
et al. vs. Uptown Property Management Inc., Case No. 24NWCV03010
 
This
is a housing discrimination case. Plaintiffs move ex parte to prevent
Defendants from taking further action on Plaintiff’s rental application and
enjoin the Defendants from making “pointless” inquiries to Plaintiff Steven C.
Ortega’s place of employment; from renting or leasing the Subject Property to a
third party or further encumbering it; from engaging in discriminatory
practices such as refusing to consider lawful sources of income, ignoring
program case manager’s voicemails and phone calls, and failing to sum up the
income of all household members.
 
“[T]rial courts
should evaluate two interrelated factors when deciding whether to issue [a
restraining order]. The first is the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail
on the merits at trial.¿The second is the interim harm that the plaintiff is
likely to sustain if the [restraining order] were denied as compared to the
harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the [order] were issued."¿(Church
of Christ in Hollywood v. Super. Ct. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1244, 1251.)¿“The
trial court’s determination must be guided by a 'mix' of the potential-merit
and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing on one, the less
must be shown on the other to support [a restraining order] . . ..¿ Of course,
‘[t]he scope of available preliminary relief is necessarily limited by the
scope of the relief likely to be obtained at trial on the merits.’¿ . . .¿ A
trial court may not grant a [restraining order], regardless of the balance of
interim harm, unless there is some possibility that the plaintiff would
ultimately prevail on the merits of the claim.”¿(Id. at pp. 1251-1252.)¿ 
 
A
party may seek ex parte relief upon an affirmative factual showing
"irreparable harm, immediate danger, or any other statutory basis for
granting relief ex parte." (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1202(c).)
 
Plaintiffs argue that the defendants have
consistently withheld rental properties from those receiving Government Subsidy
Rental Assistance Payments by selectively considering sources of income.
Plaintiffs argue they will suffer irreparable harm because the property is
still being listed for rent and, without court intervention, it will be rented
to someone else.  Also, they are forced to rent a property of similar size
that is $1000 more expensive than the properties they tried to rent from
Defendants.  
 
Based
on this record, the Court determines that ex parte relief is not
warranted.  The ex parte application is DENIED.  Plaintiffs are not
foreclosed from filing and serving a noticed motion for the relief sought. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.  
 