 Case Number:  22NWCV00258    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  C Henry Aguila vs Penn-Star
Insurance Company, et al.
Case No.: 22NWCV00258
Hearing Date: September 10, 2024
 
#6
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Penn-Star Insurance Company’s unopposed
Motion to Lift Stay is GRANTED. 
Defendant’s Anti-SLAPP Motion is CONTIUNED to October
17, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Department SE-C.
Defendant Penn-Star to give notice. 
 
Defendant Penn-Star Insurance Company moves the Court for
an order: 
1.    To
lift the Court’s stay of this action as the related federal court matter has
now resolved;
2.    To set
a hearing on Penn-Star’s already filed and previously stayed Special Motion to
Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint and attendant request for an award of
prevailing-party attorneys’ fees, both made pursuant to Code Civ. Proc.
§425.16;
3.    Entry
of an order granting the Special Motion to Strike and Dismissing Plaintiff’s
Complaint Against Penn-Star with prejudice; and
4.    An
award of prevailing-party attorneys’ fees against Plaintiff Henry Aguila and in
favor of Defendant Penn-Star in an amount of $78,424.
No opposition has been filed as of September 6, 2024.
 
Background 
This action was filed by Plaintiff Henry Aguila on May 5,
2022. The Complaint alleges that Defendant Penn-Star was Plaintiff’s commercial
liability insurer who tendered a defense for Plaintiff in one of the lawsuits
between Eva Meneses, Edgar Fragoso, Century Law Group (“CLG”) and Plaintiff.
(Complaint, ¶ 12.) Penn-Star refused Meneses, Fragoso, and CLG’s policy limit
demand and withdrew its defense of Plaintiff. (Id.) Plaintiff sued Penn-Star,
and Penn-Star accepted Plaintiff’s 998 offer for $1,995,000.00, despite being
aware that CLG did not consent to the settlement and that Penn-Star did not
comply with CCP § 708.440. (Id., ¶¶ 13-15.) Plaintiff further alleges that he,
Meneses, and Fragoso had reached an agreement that Meneses and Fragoso would
direct CLG, to withdraw its liens (Id., ¶ 13), but Meneses and Fragoso failed
to so advise CLG and thus are being sued for breach of contract. (Id., ¶ 17.)
Penn-Star refused to pay Plaintiff the amount due under the 998 offer, and have
instead sought retroactive relief of its violation of CCP § 798.440 by way of
filing an interpleader. (Id., ¶ 18.) Based thereon, the Complaint asserts the
following causes of action: 
1.    Breach
of Contract 
2.    Breach
of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
3.    Inducing
Breach of Contract 
4.    Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
5.    Negligence
On February 28, 2023, Plaintiff requested dismissal with
prejudice as to CLG. On the same date, Plaintiff also requested dismissal
without prejudice as to Defendants Edgar Fragoso and Eva Meneses. 
On December 11, 2023, at a case management conference,
Defense counsel reported the 9th Circuit District Court [sic] has issued a
ruling. Defendant Penn-Star subsequently filed a motion to lift the stay in
order to have judgment entered on its demurrer and the anti-SLAPP motion reset
for hearing. 
JUDICIAL NOTICE is taken, on the Court’s own motion, of the
following additional facts: 
Thee Aguila, Inc. sued CLG, Eva Meneses, and Edgar Fragoso
in Case No. BC532354.  The case resulted
in multiple attorney fees and cost awards in favor of CLG and against Thee
Aguila, Inc. These awards became the basis for CLG’s liens. 
Aguila and/or Thee Aguila, Inc. (“the Aguila Parties”) were
also defendants in ERDM v. Aguila (Case No. BC482246). Penn-Star, the Aguila’s
business liability insurer, initially defended the Aguila Parties but then
withdrew from the defense. (RJN 72-88.) Aguila then sued Penn-Star for
insurance bad faith in Thee Aguilla [sic], Inc. v. Penn-Star (Case No.
2:19-cv-01621-PSG (“the Insurance Action”). 
In that action, CLG filed (in June and early July 2021)
multiple notices of liens against the Aguila Parties’ recovery in the Insurance
Action, arising out of the CLG Judgment and monetary awards in CLG’s favor in
the Acuna, Fragoso, and ERDM Actions. (RJN 2, 4-24, and 26-38.) 
Shortly before trial, the Aguila Parties served a CCP § 998
offer upon Penn-Star, offering not to enter a monetary judgment, but to dismiss
their lawsuit against Penn-Star in exchange for a release agreement, in which
Penn-Star would pay Henry Aguila $1,995,000 (amongst other terms, including
that the Aguila Parties would resolve all liens), which offer Penn-Star timely
accepted on August 5, 2021. 
On August 8, 2021, CLG filed a limited objection to the
proposed settlement of the Insurance Action, which settlement would have called
for payment of all settlement sums directly to Henry Aguila, who would then
assume responsibility for satisfying liens.
In accordance with CCP § 708.440, CLG requested that the
Aguila Parties file a noticed motion for Court approval of the settlement. The
Aguila Parties did not file any motion for settlement approval, as requested by
CLG. Instead, on August 9, 2021, the Aguila Parties submitted a proposed, “more
typical” monetary judgment simply for $1,995,000 (“Judgment Sums”), with “each
party to bear its own costs and fees.” This modified the terms of its prior CCP
§ 998 offer, as it dropped (1) any requirement of a release agreement; (2) the
notion of entry of a mere dismissal of the Insurance Action and instead for
entry of a monetary judgment against Penn-Star; (3) the term that the money
would be paid solely to Henry Aguila; and (4) the term that the Aguila Parties
would be responsible for resolving the liens. 
Thus, under his new proposed judgment, consistent with CCP
§ 998(b)(1), the federal Court instead would enter a simple monetary Judgment
against Penn-Star for $1,955.000 (and each party to bear its own costs and
fees) (“Judgment”). On August 9, 2021, CLG filed a written approval of the
Aguila Parties’ proposed judgment. Similarly, on August 13, 2021, Penn-Star
filed a “Notice of Non Opposition” to Aguila Parties’ proposed judgment. With
all parties and lienholders now agreeing in writing in the federal court’s
register of action to the proposed Judgment, on August 17, 2021, the federal
Court entered Judgment in accordance with the form proposed by Aguila Parties’
counsel. Aguila did not oppose Entry of Judgment in the Insurance Action (which
was drafted and presented by his own counsel, followed by the filing of notices
of approval and non-opposition by CLG and PennStar), never appealed it, nor did
he subsequently move to set it aside. The 30- day time for appeal of that
Judgment has since expired. 
As multiple parties made claims to the Judgment Sums in the
Insurance Action, on December 2, 2021, Penn-Star filed a
Complaint-in-Interpleader in federal court titled Penn-Star Insurance Company,
Inc. v. Thee Aguila, Inc. (C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:21-cv-09365 PSG (RAOx)
(“Interpleader Action”). The Interpleader Action Complaint alleged that Aguila
and CLG, among others, had made claims to the Judgment Sums. Penn-Star did not
dispute it owed the Judgment Sums but could not determine to whom they were to
be paid.
 On March 29, 2022,
the Court in the Interpleader Action issued an Order (“Interpleader Order”) on
the motion, as follows: 
1.    The
Clerk shall accept and deposit the interpleader funds in the amount of
$1,995,000 plus applicable accrued interest into an interest-bearing account; 
2.    The
interpleader funds are subject to Penn-Star’s reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs stemming from its attorneys’ services in this interpleader action.
Penn-Star is directed to file a motion for attorneys’ fees and submit an
accounting of its attorneys’ fees and costs associated with this action; and
3.    Upon
Penn-Star’s deposit of the interpleader funds, Penn-Star shall be discharged
from further liability to Defendants-in-Interpleader for the judgment proceeds.
Defendants-in-Interpleader, including Aguila, shall be restrained and enjoined
from bringing any future action or proceeding in any state or federal court
against Penn-Star for recovery of the judgment proceeds or any applicable
interest thereon.
On April 5, 2022, the day before Penn-Star was able to
deposit the Judgment Sums with the federal court clerk and without prior notice
to Penn-Star, Aguila filed his Complaint in this action (hereinafter “This
Action”) in pro per.
On April 6, 2022, Penn-Star deposited the Judgment Sums
with federal court clerk. 
On April 14, 2022, the Court in the Interpleader Action
signed an order confirming the waiver of Defendants-in-Interpleader (including
Aguila) of their rights to appeal the Interpleader Order in exchange for
Penn-Star’s waiver of its right to recover attorneys’ fees in the Interpleader
Action.
Aguila appealed the order on July 11, 2022.
JUDICIAL NOTICE is taken, at the Request of Defendant, of
the following additional facts: 
This Court stayed this entire action pending a ruling in
the federal appeal.
On October 27, 2023, the Ninth Circuit affirmed the Federal
Amended Interpleader Order holding, among other things, that the District Court
did not err in ordering Plaintiff to dismiss this state-court action with
prejudice, when it had already discharged Penn-Star from further liability to
plaintiff for the interpleaded funds. The Ninth Circuit ruled that none of the
claims in this action plausibly alleged that Penn-Star created the controversy
over the interpleaded funds or that Penn-Star was liable to Plaintiff
independent of its decision to file the interpleader action. (RJN, Ex. C.) 
On November 20, 2023, the Ninth Circuit issued its mandate
holding that its judgment of October 27, 2023 became effective as of the date
of the Mandate. (RJN, Ex. D.) 
Plaintiff also notified the Court that, in light of the
appellate decision, he intends to dismiss the Complaint against Penn-Star. 
To date, the Court has no indication that Plaintiff has
dismissed the Complaint against Defendant Penn-Star. 
Discussion 
The Court’s prior Minute Orders of October 22, 2022 and
November 10, 2022 stayed this action in its entirety, including the Anti-SLAPP
Motion and request for attorneys’ fees. The Court indicated that the stay would
be lifted when the Ninth Circuit ruled on the federal appeal. The Ninth Circuit
has now ruled in favor of Defendant Penn-Star. 
In its order, the Ninth Circuit affirmed the Federal Amended
Interpleader Order directing Plaintiff to dismiss this action. Thus, the basis
for the stay no longer exists.  
Accordingly, the Motion to Lift the Stay is GRANTED. 
Given that the Stay has remained in effect until this date,
the Court declines to rule on the Anti-SLAPP motion.  However, the Court specially sets the
Anti-SLAPP Motion for October 17, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Department SE-C. Opposition and Reply briefs to
be filed in compliance with the new hearing date.  