 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  C Ani Khachikyan, et al. vs
Platinum Transportation Group, Inc., et al. 
Case No.: 22STCV29276
Hearing Date: September 10, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#3 
Tentative Ruling 
    
I.       
The Discovery Referee’s Report and
Recommendation Nos. 1 and 2 are APPROVED. 

   
II.       
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena
for Production of Business Records is MOOT. 
Plaintiffs to give notice. 
 
Report and Recommendation of Discovery Referee
On April 9, 2024, the Court appointed the Hon. Monica
Bachner (Ret.) to serve as a Discovery Referee under CCP Section 639 to make
recommendations to the court as to “[a]ll issues that arise during the
depositions of Harry Naldzyan (as PMK for Platinum Transportation and as an
individual), Sammy Sahakyan, Kristine Naldzyan, Gary Mouradian and Michael
Pacheco, including scheduling, location, ruling on objections and ensuring
civility.”  The Court has reviewed the
Discovery Referee’s Report and Recommendation No. 1 (filed on June 3, 2024) and
No. 2 (filed on July 15, 2024) and approves them in their entirety.  
This judicial officer was unaware that the reports had been
filed until shortly before the hearing date. 
Going forward, when a Discovery Referee’s Report and Recommendations is
filed with the Court, the Court requests that the report be accompanied by a
Proposed Order and that the title of the document being filed so indicate.  Courtesy copies of the proposed order, report,
and any objections and responses should be delivered to the Court.  These measures will help ensure proper
routing to the Court and timely rulings. 

Motion to Quash
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff-in-Intervention Philadelphia
Indemnity Insurance Co. and Defendant Miguel Pacheco issued a deposition
subpoena for production of business records directed to “Interinsurance
Exchange of The Automobile Club c/o CSC".  In a declaration filed on September 5, 2024,
Counsel for Plaintiff-in-Intervention  indicates that the deposition subpoena to the
Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club has been withdrawn. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that instant motion MOOT.  