 Case Number:  23STCV08993    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:             April 9, 2024Case Name:                Rodriguez v. Netflix, Inc.Case No.:                    23STCV08993Matter:                        Motion
to Quash Service of SummonsMoving Party:             Specially Appearing Defendant Versus Production SRL

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Franciso Ferreras Rodriguez



Tentative
Ruling:        The motion to quash service
of summons is granted based on a lack of personal jurisdiction as to Defendant Versus Production SRL. 

             This is a defamation action. Plaintiff
Francisco Ferreras Rodriguez (Plaintiff) sued Defendants Netflix, Inc.
(Netflix) and David M. Rosenthal (Rosenthal) (jointly, Defendants) for their
allegedly false depiction of Plaintiff in the film entitled, “No Limit” (Film).
 On
February 20, 2024, Defendant Versus Production SRL (Versus) specially
appeared and moved to quash service of summons based on a lack of personal
jurisdiction. Plaintiff opposes the motion to quash, contending that there is
personal jurisdiction over Versus.  The
motion to quash service of summons is granted. Discussion             Defendant Versus argues that it is
not subject to either general or specific jurisdiction in California. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the License Agreement between Netflix and Versus
is sufficient to form the basis for specific jurisdiction over Versus.              “The Due Process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment constrains a State’s authority to bind a nonresident
defendant to a judgment of its courts. [Citation.] [A] nonresident generally
must have ‘certain minimum contacts . . . such that the maintenance of the suit
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” ’ ”
(Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283 (Walden).)  Personal jurisdiction may be either general
or specific.  For general jurisdiction, a
defendant’s forum contacts must be “so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render
[the defendant] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 139.)  The paradigm of general
jurisdiction for a corporation is its state of incorporation or principal place
of business. (Id. at p. 137.)              Specific or case-linked jurisdiction
“ ‘focuses on “the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the
litigation.” ’ ”  (Walden, supra,
571 U.S. at pp. 283-284.) In particular, “the defendant’s suit-related conduct
must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”  (Id. at p. 284.)  There are three requirements for a court to
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant: “First, the
defendant must have purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits
or purposefully directed activities at forum residents.  Second, the controversy must relate to or
arise out of the defendant’s forum-related activities.  Third, the exercise of jurisdiction must
comport with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.”   (David
L. v. Superior Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 359, 366.)  The plaintiff has the initial burden to
establish the first two requirements. 
Only after doing so does the burden shift to the defendant to show that
exercising jurisdiction would be unreasonable. 
(Id. at p. 367.)  The
plaintiff must do more than merely allege jurisdictional facts.  “ ‘It must present evidence sufficient to
justify a finding that California may properly exercise jurisdiction over the
defendant.’ ”  (Zehia v. Superior
Court (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 543, 552.) The Court lacks
personal jurisdiction over Versus             Here, as preliminary matter, Defendant
Versus submits evidence that it is a Belgian film and television production
company with no employees or offices in California. (Tellin Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) This uncontested evidence
is sufficient to show that general jurisdiction is inappropriate.  In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Court has specific jurisdiction over
Defendant Versus. In particular, Plaintiff argues that Versus created
sufficient contacts with California by choosing to contract with Los
Angeles-based Defendant Netflix to help it produce and distribute the Film. The
parties’ contract, a license agreement, provides that any disputes with Netflix
relating to this agreement concerning the Film must be resolved under
California law by the California courts. (Pl.’s Exs. 1-2.)  The
License Agreement, however, is insufficient to show the first requirement for
specific jurisdiction, purposeful availment with respect to Plaintiff’s claims.
 “
‘[P]urposeful availment occurs where a nonresident defendant “ ‘purposefully
direct[s]’ [its] activities at residents of the forum” [citation], “
‘purposefully derive[s] benefit’ from” its activities in the forum [citation],
“create[s] a ‘substantial connection’ with the forum” [citation], “
‘deliberately’ has engaged in significant activities within” the forum
[citation], or “has created ‘continuing obligations’ between [itself] and
residents of the forum” [citation]. By limiting the scope of a forum’s
jurisdiction in this manner, the “ ‘purposeful availment’ requirement ensures
that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of
‘random,’ ‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts … .” [Citation.] Instead, the
defendant will be subject to personal jurisdiction only if “ ‘it has clear
notice that it is subject to suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of
burdensome litigation by procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to
customers, or, if the risks are too great, severing its connection with the
state.’ ” [Citations.]’ ”  (HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.)             It is well established that a single
contract with a California resident – without more – is insufficient to establish
personal jurisdiction. (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S.
462, 478 [“If the question is whether an individual's contract with an
out-of-state party alone can automatically establish sufficient minimum
contacts in the other party's home forum, we believe the answer clearly is that
it cannot.”]; Piterman v. Gold Coast Exotic Imports LLC (N.D. Cal., May
10, 2021, No. 5:20-CV-07724-EJD) 2021 WL 1853769, at *5 [citing Boschetto v.
Hansing (9th Cir. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011, 1017 [“we are guided by the Supreme
Court's admonition that the formation of a contract with a nonresident
defendant is not, standing alone, sufficient to create jurisdiction”]; see
also Glob. Commodities Trading Grp., Inc. v. Beneficio de Arroz Choloma,
S.A. (9th Cir. 2020) 972 F.3d 1101, 1110 [explaining that “signing a single
contract with a forum resident on behalf of a corporation would not subject a
corporate officer to personal jurisdiction in a claim for breach of contract”].)             Admittedly, here, Defendant Versus
entered into a license agreement, containing a California choice-of-law and
California dispute resolution provisions, with a company based in California.
By entering into that agreement, Defendant Versus created continuing
obligations between the parties, knowing that many of those obligations could
only be carried out by Netflix in California.              Had this Court been applying a purposeful
availment analysis based on the contract between Netflix and Versus, then these
facts would likely be sufficient to show sufficient minimum contacts for
specific jurisdiction because Versus purposefully availed itself of the
benefits and protections of the laws of the forum State with respect to its
contract with Netflix (See Doe v. Unocal Corp. (9th Cir.2001) 248 F.3d
915, 923 [explaining that purposeful availment requires a finding that the
defendant performed some type of affirmative conduct which allows or promotes
the transaction of business within the forum State].)              However, “[a] purposeful availment
analysis is most often used in suits sounding in contract,” while “[a]
purposeful direction analysis, on the other hand, is most often used in suits
sounding in tort.”” (Kevin Barry Fine Art Associates v. Ken Gangbar Studio,
Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2020) 486 F.Supp.3d 1353, 1360; Schwarzenegger v. Fred Martin
Motor Co. (9th Cir. 2004) 374 F.3d 797, 802 [noting
that the purposeful availment analysis is most often used in suits sounding in
contract].) Here,
the suit arises from a defamation claim – not the License Agreement and business
transaction. “In the defamation context, the United States Supreme Court has
described an ‘effects test’ for determining purposeful availment.” (Pavlovich
v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269 (Pavlovich).)  The
U.S. Supreme Court applied the effects test to a defamation suit in Calder
v. Jones (1984) 465 U.S. 783. There, a reporter in Florida wrote an article
for the National Enquirer about Shirley Jones, a well-known actress who lived
and worked in California; the president and editor of the National Enquirer
reviewed and approved the article, and the National Enquirer published the
article. Jones sued, among others, the reporter and editor (individual
defendants) for libel in California. The individual defendants moved to quash
service of process, contending they lacked minimum contacts with California.  The
Supreme Court held that California could exercise jurisdiction over the
individual defendants “based on the ‘effects’ of their Florida conduct in
California.” (Calder, supra, 465 U.S. at p. 789.) The Court reasoned
that jurisdiction was proper because “California [was] the focal point both of
the story and of the harm suffered.” (Ibid.) “The allegedly libelous
story concerned the California activities of a California resident. It impugned
the professionalism of an entertainer whose television career was centered in
California ... and the brunt of the harm, in terms both of [Jones's] emotional
distress and the injury to her professional reputation, was suffered in
California.” (Id. at pp. 788–789.) The Court also noted that the
individual defendants wrote or edited “an article that they knew would have a
potentially devastating impact upon [Jones]. And they knew that the brunt of
that injury would be felt by [Jones] in the State in which she lives and works
and in which the National Enquirer has its largest circulation.” (Id. at
pp. 789–790.) In
Pavlovich, the California Supreme Court concluded that the Calder
effects test requires “evidence of express aiming or intentional targeting” (Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 273.), in addition to “the defendant's knowledge
that his intentional conduct would cause harm in the forum” (Id. at p.
271). 
            In contrast to Calder,
there is no similar evidence that Plaintiff suffered the effects of Defendants’
alleged conduct in California. Although a dual U.S. and Cuban citizen, Plaintiff
resides in Cuba. (Compl., ¶ 4.) There is no tie between Plaintiff and
Defendant’s conduct with this forum.  Similarly,
there is no evidence that Defendant Versus “expressly aimed its tortious
conduct at the forum....” (IMO Industries, Inc. v. Kiekert AG (3d Cir.
1998) 155 F.3d 254, 265 [italics in original] [“agree[ing] with the conclusion
reached by the First, Fourth, Fifth, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Circuits that
jurisdiction under Calder requires more than a finding that the harm
caused by the defendant's intentional tort is primarily felt within the forum].)


That
is, it is Plaintiff’s burden to show that Defendant Versus “knew that the
plaintiff would suffer the brunt of the harm caused by the tortious conduct in
the forum, and point to specific activity indicating that the defendant
expressly aimed its tortious conduct at the forum.” (IMO, supra, 155
F.3d at p. 266; Bancroft & Masters, Inc. v. Augusta Nat. Inc. (9th
Cir. 2000) 223 F.3d 1082, 1087 [The plaintiff must show not only that the
defendant “caused harm, the brunt of which is suffered and which the defendant
knows is likely to be suffered in the forum state,” but also that the defendant
“committed an intentional act ... expressly aimed at the forum state.”] overruled
in part on other grounds by Yahoo! Inc. v. La Ligue Contre Le Racisme Et
L'Antisemitisme (9th Cir. 2006) 433 F.3d 1199.) “Foreseeable
injury alone is not sufficient to confer specific jurisdiction, absent the
direction of specific acts toward the forum.” (Wien Air Alaska, Inc. v.
Brandt (5th Cir.1999) 195 F.3d 208, 212.)             Thus, Plaintiff has failed to show Defendants’
purposeful direction under the effects test.              Under the second requirement for
specific jurisdiction, even if a defendant purposefully directs his activities
toward the forum, jurisdiction exists only if the lawsuit arises out of or
relates to the defendant’s contacts with the forum. (Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017) 582 U.S.
255, 262-263; SK Trading International Co. Ltd. v. Superior Court of San
Francisco County (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 378, 389.) This requirement
is satisfied “ ‘if there is a substantial nexus or connection between the
defendant's forum activities and the plaintiff's claim.’ [Citations.] ‘A claim
need not arise directly from the defendant's forum contacts in order to be
sufficiently related to the contact to warrant the exercise of specific
jurisdiction. Rather, as long as the claim bears a substantial connection to
the nonresident’s forum contacts, the exercise of specific personal
jurisdiction is appropriate.’ ” “Only when the operative facts of the
controversy are not related to the defendant's contact with the state can it be
said that the cause of action does not arise from that contact.” (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 559-560;
see also In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 100, 116 [“If the operative facts of the allegations of the
complaint do not relate to the [defendant's] contacts in this state, then the
cause of action does not arise from that contact such that California courts
may exercise specific personal jurisdiction”].) As
the reply notes, Plaintiff’s claims arise out of an allegedly defamatory
statement in the Film – not Versus’ contractual arrangement with Netflix. (Rivelli
v. Hemm (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 380, 401-402.) In Rivelli, the
plaintiffs provided evidence that a Swiss company defendant purposefully
availed itself of forum benefits through ongoing contractual relationships with
a California company, and an individual Swiss defendant purposefully availed
himself of the privilege of conducting activities in California through his
directorship at the California company and by negotiating a transaction between
the two companies. (Rivelli, supra, 67 Cal.App.5th at pp. 397, 405.)  But
the Rivelli court found that the plaintiffs’
evidence failed to establish the necessary connection between the defendants’
activities in California and the plaintiffs’ claims for fraud, breach of
fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, and statutory
violations of the Corporations Code. (Id. at 399.)  Plaintiffs provided no evidence of fraudulent
or tortious conduct, or any actual wrongdoing, that was directed at the forum
by the individual defendant. (Id. at pp. 402, 406.) The court explained
that the plaintiffs “have not presented ‘competent evidence of jurisdictional
facts’ [citation] tying [the Swiss company's] actions to the fraud claim.” (Id.
at p. 402.) That is, evidence showed the contacts between the Swiss company and
California were contractual, while the tort claims in the complaint did not
arise from or relate to the contractual relationship and were not supported by
the jurisdictional evidence. (Id. at p. 404.) In
this case, Defendant Versus’s evidence shows that it did not provide any
services in connection with the Film within California. (Tellin Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff
provides no contrary evidence or allegations.              Plaintiff fails to meet his burden
of establishing the first two requirements for specific jurisdiction. As
Plaintiff failed to meet his burden of establishing the first two requirements
for specific jurisdiction, the Court need not address whether exercise of
jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable.            Conclusion  Accordingly,
the Court grants Versus’ motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction and
dismisses it from this case. 







































































































































.......................Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki Department  58     