                This is a defamation action.  Plaintiff Francisco Ferreras Rodriguez (Plaintiff) sued Defendants Netflix,  Inc. (Netflix) and David M. Rosenthal (Rosenthal) (jointly, Defendants) for  their allegedly false depiction of Plaintiff in the film entitled, “No Limit”  (Film).                On November 21, 2023, Defendants  filed a Special Motion to Strike the Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP motion). Plaintiff opposes the Anti-SLAPP  motion.[1]               The special motion to strike  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is granted.               Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s  evidence as follows: Nos. 1-4 are sustained as irrelevant.    Legal  Standard   “A cause of action against a person  arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of  petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California  Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special  motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has  established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the  claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) The purpose of the statute  is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid exercise of a  litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech. (Code Civ. Proc., §  425.16, subd. (a); Sylmar Air  Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th  1049, 1055-1056.)   Courts employ a two-step process to  evaluate special motions to strike strategic lawsuits against public  participation (SLAPP). (Equilon  Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61.)  First, the defendant must show that the  challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity, such as an act in  furtherance of the right of petition or free speech. (Ibid.) “The moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all  allegations of protected activity, and the claims supported by them.” (Baral  v. Schmitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396.) In the second step, it “  ‘is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable  probability of success on the merits.’ ” (Equilon,  supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.  61.) In determining whether the plaintiff has carried this burden, the  trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits  stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup  v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291 (Soukup).)   “Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is  not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the  plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should  analyze each claim for relief—each act or set of acts supplying a basis for  relief, of which there may be several in a single pleaded cause of action—to  determine whether the acts are protected and, if so, whether the claim they  give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion.” (Bonni  v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.)    Discussion   I.                 Arising  from Protected Activity   As outlined above, in the first step  of the analysis, Defendants must demonstrate that Plaintiff’s claims arise from  one of four categories of protected activity. An “ ‘act in furtherance of a  person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California  Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or  oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial  proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written  or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under  consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any  other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement  or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection  with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of  the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional  right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public  interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.  (e).)   “As our Supreme Court has  recognized, ‘the “arising from” requirement is not always easily met.’  [Citation.] ‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity  took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of  the anti-SLAPP statute. [Citation.] Moreover, that a cause of action arguably  may have been “triggered” by protected activity does not entail that it is one  arising from such.’ [Citation.] ‘A claim arises from protected activity when  that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim. [Citations.]  Critically, “the defendant’s act underlying  the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of  the right of petition or free speech.” [Citations.]’ [Citation.] ‘[I]n ruling  on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged  claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently  form the basis for liability.’ [Citation.] Put another way, courts should first  identify ‘the allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the  foundation for the claims,’ and then determine whether that conduct itself  constitutes protected activity.” (Callanan v. Grizzly Designs, LLC (2022)  81 Cal.App.5th 517, 526 (citing Park v. Board of Trustees of  California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062-1063).)                Defendants  argue that Plaintiff’s claims arise from Defendants’ protected activity under  Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 because Plaintiff’s claims are premised  on Defendants’ creation and distribution of a movie.    A cause of action arises  from protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16, subdivision  (e)(4) if (1) defendants' acts underlying the cause of action, and on which the  cause of action is based, (2) were acts in furtherance of defendants' right of  petition or free speech (3) in connection with a public issue. (Hall v. Time  Warner, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1346.)    The creation of a movie is  an exercise of free speech. (E.g., Musero v. Creative Artists Agency, LLC  (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 802, 816; Dyer v. Childress (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  1273, 1280; see also Olivia N. v. National Broadcasting Co. (1981) 126  Cal.App.3d 488, 493, [“[m]otion pictures are accorded First Amendment  protections”]; see also Tamkin v. CBS Broadcasting, Inc. (2011) 193  Cal.App.4th 133, 143 [“The creation of a television show is an exercise of free  speech.”].) “Steps taken to advance such constitutionally protected expression  are properly considered ‘conduct in furtherance of’ the exercise of the right  of free speech within the meaning of section 425.16, subdivision (e)(4).” (Musero  v. Creative Artists Agency, supra, at 816.)    Further, matters of public  interest in this context are broadly construed. (Tamkin v. CBS Broadcasting,  Inc., supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 143 [finding that “the creation and  broadcasting of CSI episode 913 is an issue of public interest because  the public was demonstrably interested in the creation and broadcasting of that  episode, as shown by the posting of the casting synopses on various Web sites  and the ratings for the episode”].)    Plaintiff does not dispute that his claims arise  from Defendants’ protected activity. Accordingly, Defendants have met their burden under step one  of showing that Plaintiff’s claims arise from protected activity.    II.              Demonstrating Minimal Merit    On the second component of the analysis, courts employ a  “summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to  the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether  the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein,  LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) The Court does not assess  credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the  evidence standard. The Court accepts as true the evidence favorable to the  plaintiff, who need only establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to  avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. (Soukup,  supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 291.) Plaintiff must demonstrate that the  complaint is both “ ‘legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima  facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence  submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ” (Ibid.)               “Defamation is the intentional  publication of a statement of fact that is false, unprivileged, and has a  natural tendency to injure or that causes special damage.” (Grenier v.  Taylor (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 471, 486.) “If the person defamed is a public  figure, he must show, by clear and convincing evidence, that the defamatory  statement was made with actual malice” (Mitchell v. Twin Galaxies, LLC  (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 207, 218.)               Here, to make a prima facie showing  on the defamation claim, Plaintiff must first show that a reasonable viewer  would understand that the Film makes statements “of or concerning” Plaintiff. Plaintiff  must also show that the Film makes a statement of fact about Plaintiff that is  “provably false.” Finally, Plaintiff must establish Defendants made this false  statement with actual malice.               As both the Opposition and Reply  acknowledge, the Court previously determined that Plaintiff had not demonstrated  that the Film made provable false statements about Plaintiff. The Opposition  goes so far as to admit that if it is unable to convince the Court otherwise, the  suit is “dead on arrival.” (Opp. 5:26-28.) The Opposition’s argument here is no  more persuasive than the arguments made on Plaintiff’s motion seeking leave for  limited discovery.                The Film is the story of protagonist  Roxana Aubrey (Aubrey), as she pursues her passion for breaking a no limit  freediving record, and navigates her tumultuous relationship with her  instructor, a world-famous freediver named Pascal Gautier (Gautier). Plaintiff  contends that the Film is a thinly veiled portrait of Plaintiff’s real-life  relationship with his deceased wife, Audrey Mestre (Mestre), and that the Film  implies he killed her.    The Court again finds, after having viewed the Film, no  reasonable viewer would find that the Film portrayed Plaintiff. As the Court  previously found, many of the material overlaps between Plaintiff’s life and the  Film’s portray Gautier are limited to similarities that would be generic to any  film about free diving. This fact is reinforced by the number of other free  divers that inspired aspects of the Film. (Rosenthal Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.) The  remaining similarities identified by Plaintiff’s papers are largely inconsequential,  like saying both individuals liked a certain food. Additionally, the Film does  not mention Plaintiff by name or identify any other real life individuals that  could tie Plaintiff to Gautier.    Further, the Opposition’s attempt to present two viewers opinions  that the Film was about Plaintiff (see Lebel Decl., ¶¶  1-6; Hazoury Decl., ¶¶1-6) are insufficient to meet this burden. (Gaprindashvili  v. Netflix, Inc. (C.D. Cal., Jan. 27, 2022, No. 221CV07408VAPSKX) 2022  WL 363537, at *10 [viewer evidence is not dispositive].)    Moreover, where a work is sufficiently transformative, a  defamation claim is barred. (Sarver v. Hurt Locker LLC (C.D. Cal., Oct.  13, 2011, No. 2:10-CV-09034-JHN) 2011 WL 11574477, at *8.) Quoting our Supreme  Court, the Sarver decision noted that “the author who denotes his work  as fiction proclaims his literary license and indifference to ‘the facts.’”  (Citing Guglielmi v. Spelling-Goldberg Productions (1979) 25 Cal.3d 860,  871.) The Film includes a disclaimer that “This film is a work of fiction. Any  resemblance with reality is coincidental.” In Sarver, the district court  found that including a disclaimer and not using the plaintiff’s name were  sufficient – among other factors – to bar the defamation claim.               Accordingly, Plaintiff  has not shown that a reasonable person would understand that the fictional  character of Gautier was in fact the Plaintiff acting as depicted; that is,  there is no evidence of a statement of fact about Plaintiff himself.               The Court also finds that Film makes no provably false  statement about Plaintiff.                “There can be no recovery for  defamation without a falsehood. [Citation.] Thus, to state a defamation claim  that survives a First Amendment challenge, plaintiff must present evidence of a  statement of fact that is provably false. (Milkovich v. Lorain Journal Co.  (1990) 497 U.S. 1, 20.) ‘Statements do not imply a provably false factual  assertion and thus cannot form the basis of a defamation action if they cannot  “ ‘reasonably [be] interpreted as stating actual facts’ about an individual.”  [Citations.] Thus, “rhetorical hyperbole,” “vigorous epithet[s],” “lusty and  imaginative expression[s] of ... contempt,” and language used “in a loose,  figurative sense” have all been accorded constitutional protection.  [Citations.]’ [Citations.] The dispositive question after the Milkovich  case is whether a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the published  statements imply a provably false factual assertion.” (Seelig, supra, 97  Cal.App.4th at p. 809, italics added).)” (Gilbert v. Sykes (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 13, 27.)                Based  on the foregoing, “the implications drawn from the  dialogue must convey defamatory facts, not opinions.” (Heller v. NBCUniversal, Inc. (C.D. Cal., June 29, 2016, No. CV-15-09631-MWF-KS)  2016 WL 6583048, at *4.)    Here,  the Film suggests – using literary devices and techniques – that Gautier may be capable of murder. Specifically, the Film’s  tumultuous relationship between Gautier and Aubrey, the Film’s shots showing Pascal handling the dive equipment prior to Aubrey’s fatal last dive, and Gautier’s reaction  when the dive appears to go wrong are all intended to make the audience  question whether Pascal did in fact murder Aubrey. However, this implication does not constitute a statement of fact  about Plaintiff. As the Court’s prior ruling found, “provocative  clues do not equate to a factual assertion.” (Order, p. 4.)    Nothing in the Film constitutes a provably false factual  assertion that Plaintiff murdered his wife.               Lastly, Plaintiff has failed  to show actual malice by Defendants in making this alleged statement.                 To prove actual malice, a plaintiff  must show that statements were made with “‘knowledge that [they were] false or  with reckless disregard of whether [they were] false or not.’ ” (Reader's  Digest Assn. v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 244, 256-257.) “ ‘There  must be sufficient evidence to permit the conclusion that the defendant in fact  entertained serious doubts as to the truth,’ ” and the evidence must be clear  and convincing. (Reader's Digest, supra, 37 Cal.3d at p. 252, 256; see Copp  v. Paxton (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 829, 846 [“burden of proof by clear and  convincing evidence ‘requires a finding of high probability’; must ‘leave no  substantial doubt’ ”].)               “ ‘Actual malice may be proved by  direct or circumstantial evidence. Factors such as failure to investigate,  anger and hostility, and reliance on sources known to be unreliable or biased  “may in an appropriate case, indicate that the publisher himself [or herself]  had serious doubts regarding the truth of his [or her] publication.” ’ ” (Burrill v.  Nair (2013) 217  Cal.App.4th 357, 390.)                 “In the context of a special motion  to strike, however, plaintiffs [] must establish only a probability they can  produce clear and convincing evidence of actual malice.” (Collins v. Waters  (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 70, 80.) “In other words, they must establish a  reasonable probability they can produce clear and convincing evidence showing  that the statements were made with actual malice.” (Ibid.)   Here, there is no evidence, direct or circumstantial, that  the Defendants “ ‘ “lacked reasonable grounds for belief in the truth” ’ ” of  the alleged statements in the Film or was “ ‘ “motivated by hatred or ill  will.” ’ ” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 721.)   Plaintiff’s evidence of actual malice primarily relies on  the “so-called” exoneration of Plaintiff contrasted with the Film’s portrayal  of Gautier as a murderer. Plaintiff’s argument suggests that because Defendants  knew Plaintiff had been “exonerated” “of any criminal complicity in  Audrey’s tragic death by, among other examples, a report  prepared by the International Association of Free Divers (“IAFD”), which  relied on a report by Kim McCoy and on interviews and observations conducted  directly by the IAFD team.” (Pl.’s Ex. 3.)    However, there is no evidence that  Defendants knew of or read the report prepared by the IAFD or any other purportedly  “exonerating”  source material. All Plaintiff offers is speculation about what  Defendants may have read or investigated. In any case, Plaintiff’s assertion that all sources establish his innocence  is exaggerated. (See e.g., Serra, The Last Attempt (2006), ch. 23, attached to Declaration  of Marvin Putnam in support of Defendants’ motion to strike, Exh. H.)               Plaintiff’s evidence is  inadequate to show that Defendants’ defamatory statements were made with actual  malice.    Accordingly, Plaintiff’s fails to  make a prima facie showing for his claims and has not met his burden on the  second prong.    Conclusion   The special motion to  strikepursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16is granted.     