

 
On February 25, 2022, Plaintiff Nataly Consuelo (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint alleging 14 employment-related causes of action stemming from an
alleged assault, including, but not limited to, harassment, discrimination,
retaliation, failure to engage in the interactive process, failure to provide a
reasonable accommodation, wrongful termination, and whistleblower retaliation. 
 
            On October 11, 2023, the parties – Defendants
Lyneer Staffing Solutions, LLC and Employers HR, LLC (Settling Defendants), on
the one hand, and Plaintiff, on the other hand – signed a settlement agreement (Settlement
Agreement) in this action. The
Settlement Agreement provides that Settling Defendants will pay $30,000 to Plaintiff
in exchange for a full settlement and release of all claims against them and a
dismissal of the Complaint. The Settlement Agreement depends upon the Court’s
approval of the Motion for Good Faith Settlement.
 
On March 13, 2024, Settling Defendants moved for a good
faith settlement with respect to the Settlement Agreement. Defendant Fashion
Logistics, Inc. and Franco Vago L.A. Inc. (Non-Settling Defendants) oppose the
motion. 
 
             The other potential parties involved include
the following: Fashion Logistics, Inc., Franco Vago L.A., Inc., Joseph Lopez
and Jose Arciega, Franco Vago SpA, and Nippon Express Italia SpA.[1]
 
            The Motion for Good Faith Settlement
is continued for supplemental briefing.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) 
            In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court explained that in making a good faith settlement
determination, a trial court should “inquire, among other things, whether the
amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries.” (Id. at p. 499.) “The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (d).)
“In the
context of section 877.6, ‘[t]he trial court is given broad discretion in
deciding whether a settlement is in “good faith” for purposes of section 877.6,
and its decision may be reversed only upon a showing of abuse of discretion.’ ”
(Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939,
957.) 
Discussion
 
            Settling Defendants request the
Court find their settlement with Plaintiff in the amount of $30,000 was made in
good faith based on its position that the Settlement Agreement meets all the
relevant Tech-Bilt factors.
 
            Acknowledging that there
is no precise method to determine whether parties entered into a good faith
settlement, the Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt provided guidelines for determining whether a
settlement is made in good faith. (38 Cal.3d at
495.) The court must strike a balance between the public policy favoring
settlements and the competing policy favoring equitable allocation of costs
between tortfeasors. (Id. at pp. 498-99.) To accomplish this, the Tech-Bilt
Court provided the following factors for determining whether a proposed
settlement is based on good faith: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s
total recovery and the settling defendant’s proportionate liability; (2) the
amount paid in settlement; (3) allocation of settlement amounts among
plaintiffs; (4) recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than
it would if it were found liable after trial; (5) financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of the settling defendant; and (6) the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
non-settling defendants. (Id. at 499-500.) The burden of proof in
asserting that a settlement lacked good faith falls upon the party making the
assertion and it must show that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’
in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6].” (Ibid.) 
 
            Here, under the Settlement
Agreement, Settling Defendants are to pay the sum of $30,000.00. Settling
Defendants argue that this amount is within the ballpark of Settling
Defendant’s liability. Specifically, Settling Defendants submit evidence that they
did not employ Defendants Joseph Lopez and Jose Arciega (Individual Defendants)
– the individuals who allegedly perpetrated the assault – did not place
Individual Defendants at the subject work location owned by Defendant Fashion
Logistics, had no control over the Individual Defendants, and did not direct
the activities of the Individual Defendants. (Kierig Decl., ¶ 7.) Further,
Settling Defendants do not, and have never had, any control over the property
or business operations of Fashion Logistics, nor have they ever had the authority
to supervise or direct Fashion Logistics’s employees. (Kierig Decl., ¶ 8.)
Settling Defendants also submit evidence that Plaintiff never reported any of Non-Settling
Defendants misconduct to Defendant Lyneer. (Kierig Decl., ¶ 12.) Rather, Defendant
Lyneer merely assigned Plaintiff to work at Fashion Logistics and Employers HR
is Lyneer’s professional employer organization (PEO). (Kierig Decl., ¶¶
4(a)-(b), 7-9.)
 
            Settling Defendants contend that
given the absence of their liability for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries, they intended
to file a motion for summary judgment, which would have cost approximately
$30,000 in attorney’s fees and costs to file. However, based on this cost and
their lack of liability, Settling Defendants made a final settlement offer to
Plaintiff in that amount of $30,000, which Plaintiff accepted. (Kierig Decl., ¶
14.) 
 
            In opposition, Non-Settling
Defendants submit evidence that Lyneer maintained control over Plaintiff’s work
with Defendant Fashion Logistics, Inc. Specifically, Lyneer directed Plaintiff
through human resources documents to contact Lyneer if there were any problems
at the work site and to immediately notify Lyneer if her work position was
changed; Fashion Logistics could not change the job description or duties of
Plaintiff without Lyneer’s approval; Fashion Logistics could not change the
work hours of Plaintiff without Lyneer’s approval; Fashion Logistics reported to
Lyneer the time records for when Plaintiff worked; and Lyneer paid Plaintiff,
including withholding of social security and Medicare, and maintained payroll
records for Plaintiff. (Magherini Decl., ¶ 4; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶¶ 8-9, Exs. 2,
3.) 
 
This evidence merely shows control over Plaintiff, but no evidence
that Settling Defendants controlled either Non-Settling Defendants’ employees
or specific workplace conditions. Further, there is no evidence Settling
Defendants had actual notice of the unlawful conditions. (See e..g., Mathieu v. Norrell Corp. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1185.)
Non-Settling Defendants provide no
legal authority suggesting that these facts impose liability on Settling
Defendants.[2] Said another way,
Non-Settling Defendants’ evidence does not show that $30,000 is “out of the
ball park” of Settling Defendant’s proportionate liability where the evidence
plausibly shows that the liability is nonexistent.
 
Additionally, Non-Settling Defendants note that Plaintiff
claims over $32,000,000 in special damages alone. But as they acknowledge,
these damages have not been substantiated.
 
Based on the foregoing, the settlement amount of $30,000 is
reasonable and is within the ballpark of Settling Defendants possible share of
liability, with the understanding that, under Tech-Bilt, a party should
not be required to pay more in a settlement than if found liable at trial.
 
            Further, Settling Defendants assert that
this settlement was reached in good faith as an arm’s length transaction. (Kierig
Decl., ¶¶ 10-11, 18.) Settling Defendants also submit evidence that Settling
Defendants’ financial conditions or their insurance coverage limits did not
affect the Parties’ settlement negotiations in this matter, and therefore, the
Court should decline to find any bad faith on that basis. (See Kierig Decl., ¶
17.) Non-Settling Defendants speculate that the parties only settled because of
Plaintiff’s counsel’s malpractice. This argument is based on  evidence that Lyneer served a 988 Offer in
February 2023 and then later settled for only $10,000 more – on the same day Plaintiff’s
opposition to Lyneer’s motion to compel was due. Non-Settling Defendants
suggest that “Plaintiff
only agreed to the settlement because she was in a bad position and wanted to
avoid the aftermath.” (Opp. 7:18-19.) This argument is unpersuasive:  it has no connection to whether the
settlement is in good faith.
 
            Non-Settling Defendants also argue there
is no evidence regarding Settling Defendants’ financial condition. However, as
the reply notes, this factor is not applicable where they did not settle based
on financial need; thus, financial conditions and applicable insurance policies
are irrelevant to the Court’s analysis of this settlement. (Kierig Decl., ¶
17.)
 
            Finally, under Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6, “the party asserting the lack of good faith shall have
the burden of proof on that issue.” In opposition, Non-Settling Defendants
Fashion Logistics, Inc. and Franco Vago L.A. Inc. argue that cannot assess whether
the Settlement Agreement is fair because the agreement was not provided to
Non-Settling Defendants. In support, Non-Settling Defendants cite Mediplex of California, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1995) 34
Cal.App.4th 748 for the proposition that Settling Defendants were required to
provide the written settlement agreement for review and the failure to do so “thwarts meaningful opposition to the settlement and
emasculates section 877.6.” (Id. at 751.) This argument is well taken.
In Mediplex, the court held that, in uncontested
877.6 cases, parties may withhold the written
agreement as long as they have revealed the important terms, but “that is not the case on a contested
motion.” (Mediplex of California, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 34
Cal.App.4th at 753 [citing Alcal Roofing & Insulation v. Superior Court
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1121].) 
 
            Rather
than address this legal authority, Settling Defendants merely argue that Non-Settling
Defendants never requested the Settlement Agreement “until they filed their Opposition brief to this Motion.” There
is no requirement that Non-Settling Defendants request the written settlement
agreement within a certain timeframe. 
 
Thus, on this basis the Court will
continue the motion in order to provide Non-Settling Defendants with a copy of
the settlement Agreement.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is continued
to a date to be set at the hearing.  Defendants Fashion Logistics, Inc. and Franco
Vago L.A. Inc. may file supplemental briefing on the specific terms of the
Settlement Agreement (no more than 3 pages, not including additional evidence) no
later than ten court days before the hearing. Defendants Lyneer Staffing
Solutions, LLC and Employers HR, LLC may file responsive supplemental briefing on
the specific terms of the Settlement Agreement (no more than 3 pages, not
including additional evidence) no later than five court days before the hearing.
 


