 Case Number:  23NWCV00948    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  C PELAGIO v. FCA US LLC, et al. 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV00948
HEARING:
  10/9/24 @ 10:30 A.M. 
 
#9
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff Irvin Pelagio’s motion to compel Defendant FCA US LLC’s
further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED in part and DENIED
in part as set forth below.  No
sanctions. 
 
Moving party to give NOTICE. 
 
 
Plaintiff Irvin Pelagio (“Plaintiff”) moves
to compel Defendant FCA US LLC’s (“Defendant”) further responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set One), numbers 29 and 31.  
 
Timeliness 
 
Notice of the motion to compel further must be
provided within 45 days of service of the response or on or before any specific
later date to which the parties have agreed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).) This 45-day deadline runs from the date the verified response is
served and is extended for service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1010.6, subdivision (a)(4) and 1013, subdivision (a). Failure
to timely move to compel within the specified period constitutes a waiver of
any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)

 
The 45-day rule to bring a motion to compel is
mandatory and jurisdictional “in the sense that it renders court without
authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them.” (Sexton v.
Super. Ct. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Here, FCA US, LLC served discovery
responses on October 23, 2023 and then verifications on October 26, 2023. (Decl.
Lopez, ¶ 5.) Counsel agreed to extend Plaintiff’s time to move to compel
further responses to January 31, 2024. (Decl. Lopez, ¶ 11, Ex. D.) 
 
Plaintiff filed the instant motion
on January 31, 2024. Thus, the motion is timely. 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) 
 
For purposes of
determining whether a motion to compel discovery was preceded by a reasonable
and good faith effort to meet and confer, such a reasonable and good faith
attempt at informal resolution entails something more than bickering with
opposing counsel; rather, the law requires that counsel attempt to talk the
matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate. (Clement v.
Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294.) 
 
After
sending meet and confer letters back and forth, Defendant served supplemental
responses on December 20, 2023. (Decl. Lopez, ¶ 10, Ex. F.) Plaintiff sent
another meet and confer letter and Defendant responded. (Decl. Lopez, ¶ 10, 23,
Ex. G, H.) 
 
The
Court finds that the parties sufficiently met and conferred. 
 
Special
Interrogatories
 
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to special interrogatories numbers 29 and 31. 
 
“‘An order compelling
discovery must rest on a showing that the discovery is reasonably calculated to
lead to admissible evidence….’"  (Cadiz
Land Co. v. Rail Cycle (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 74, 117.) The burden rests
upon the party seeking the discovery to provide evidence from which the court
may determine these conditions are met. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) 
 
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure to fully answer the interrogatories. (Coy
v. Super. Ct. (Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
          Special Interrogatory No. 29
 
SI No. 29
asks, “Do you contend that your response to Plaintiff’s pre-litigation repurchase
request is a defense to liability under the Song-Beverly Act”? 
 
FCA US LLC
responds, “FCA
US contends that the Subject Vehicle did not exhibit defects, covered by its
written limited warranty which substantially impaired the use, value or safety
to the Plaintiff, which were not repaired after a reasonable number of repair
attempts. FCA US contends that on each occasion the Subject Vehicle was
presented to an authorized dealership for repairs, the dealership was able to
conform the vehicle to the express written warranty. Nonetheless, FCA US LLC offered
to repurchase the Subject Vehicle on or about December 30, 2022, without any
legal obligation to do so. FCA US otherwise objects to Plaintiff’s definition
of the term “YOU” because it is overly broad and compound, and includes
entities not owned or operated by FCA US and individuals or entities who are
not agents of FCA US and not within FCA US’s control.” 
 
Plaintiff
argues that FCA US LLC does not answer the question because it states that the
vehicle did not qualify for a repurchase but nonetheless offered a repurchase.
Plaintiff argues that the question is whether FCA US LLC contends that the
prelitigation offer is a defense to liability, not whether the vehicle
qualified for repurchase. 
 
The Court
finds that FCA US LLC sufficiently answered SI No. 29. In stating that it
offered to repurchase the subject vehicle without any legal obligation to do
so, FCA US LLC is stating that it was not liable. If FCA US LLC is not liable,
it cannot have a defense to liability. 
 
The motion to
compel further response to SI No. 29 is DENIED. 

 
          Special Interrogatory No. 31
 
SI No. 31
asks, “State the repair presentation to the subject vehicle that you used for
calculating the mileage offset for purposes of your pre-litigation offer.” 
 
FCA US LLC responds,
“FCA US refers Plaintiff to the warranty claim records, a copy of any repair
record obtained from any independent authorized repair facility regarding
service to the Subject Vehicle, and a copy of the Repair Order Detailed Report
for the Subject Vehicle, produced in response to Plaintiff’s First Set of
Request for Production of Documents No. 3.” 
 
Plaintiff
argues that FCA US LLC used an improper mileage offset when calculating its
prelitigation repurchase offer, and asking FCA US LLC to state what repair it
used to calculate the offset is likely to lead to admissible evidence. Plaintiff
further argues that none of the documents identify the specific repair
presentation that FCA US LLC used. 
 
In opposition,
FCA US LLC states that it has responded to Interrogatory No. 31 pursuant to CCP § 2030.230.
 
“If the answer to an interrogatory would
necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or
summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is
directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be
substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the
responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to refer to
this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be derived
or ascertained. This specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit
the propounding party to locate and to identify, as readily as the responding
party can, the documents from which the answer may be ascertained. The
responding party shall then afford to the propounding party a reasonable
opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect these documents and to make copies,
compilations, abstracts, or summaries of them.” (CCP § 2030.230, italics
added.)
 
Plaintiff
argues, and the Court agrees, that Defendant has not identified the specific
repair presentations it has used.  
 
Thus, the
motion to compel further response to SI No. 31 is GRANTED.  Defendant to provide a verified further
response within 45 days.  
 
Sanctions
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
 
Given the mixed ruling, no sanctions are
awarded.  