  Case Number:  23AHCV01910    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY DEFENDANT STEVEN SCHULTZ TO SET ASIDE/VACATE JUDGMENTI.        INTRODUCTION
           This case arises from a commercial lease dispute between
Plaintiff Steven R. Glatts (“Plaintiff”) and Defendant Steven Schultz
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to pay sums due under
the lease agreement. Plaintiff served the summons by posting and mailing after
several unsuccessful attempts to serve Defendant at the subject property. 
Defendant contends that service was improper because it was made at the subject
property and, therefore, he did not receive actual notice of the lawsuit.
Plaintiff subsequently obtained a default and default judgment, which Defendant
now seeks to set aside on grounds of improper service and lack of notice. 
Plaintiff
commenced this action on August 22, 2023. On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff served
Defendant by posting and mailing after four unsuccessful attempts at personal
service. Default was entered on November 17, 2023, and default judgment was
entered on January 22, 2024.
Defendant
filed a motion to set aside the default and default judgment on July 23, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an Opposition on September 16, 2024, and Defendant replied to
Plaintiff’s Opposition on September 20, 2024.
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
The court has broad discretion to set aside the
entry of default, default judgment, or a dismissal, but that discretion can be
exercised only if the defendant establishes a proper ground for relief, by the
proper procedure and within the set time limits. 
CCP § 473(b) provides, in relevant part: 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
Alternatively, pursuant to CCP § 473.5, a defendant
may obtain relief by showing “service of a summons has not resulted in actual
notice to a party in time to defend the action.” Relief must be sought “within
a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding” 2 years after entry of the
default judgment or 180 days after service of written notice that the default
or default judgment has been entered, whichever is earlier. 
Finally, CCP § 473(d) provides that “[t]he court may
. . . on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any
void judgment or order.” (CCP § 473(d).) Default judgment is void against a
defendant who was not served with a summons in the manner prescribed by
statute. (See Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 852,
858.) A judgment void on its face—meaning where the invalidity is ‘apparent
upon an inspection of the judgment-roll’, which includes the proof of service
(CCP § 670(a))—may be set aside pursuant to section 473(d) at any time. (See
Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) Where a
judgment is valid on its face, but is nevertheless deemed void after
considering evidence beyond the judgment, the motion must be brought within the
same time as a motion brought under CCP § 473.5. (See Rogers v.
Silverman (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1114.)
           III.     DISCUSSION
Defendant
contends that he was not personally served with the summons and complaint in
this matter and did not receive any related documents by mail. (Schultz Decl. ¶
8.) Defendant asserts that he was not at the location where the service was
attempted At the time of service (Schultz Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff attempted to personally
serve Defendant four times at the location.  Plaintiff’s process server states that “the
business location was locked up and closed. It appears the business has been
closed for a while…” (Juarez Decl. Exh A)
A
proof of service filed by a plaintiff, including the declaration of a
registered process server, gives rise to a presumption of the facts stated
therein, thus requiring the defendant to produce evidence that he was not
served. (American Exp. Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th
383, 390.)
Here,
Plaintiff satisfies the burden of demonstrating effective service by submitting
the Proof of Service and server’s declaration of diligence, which indicates
that Defendant was served by posting and mailing on October 12, 2023. (Juarez
Decl. Exh A)
Defendant
has provided evidence showing that Plaintiff attempted personal service on four
occasions at the subject property, located at 3355 E. Colorado Blvd., Pasadena,
CA 91107. The final attempt, on October 12, 2023, was by posting and mailing.
Defendant further submits a “returned to sender” notice as evidence that the
mailed documents were never delivered. (Schultz Decl. ¶ 6.)
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has met his burden to produce
evidence demonstrating he was not properly served. Plaintiff’s multiple
unsuccessful attempts at personal service, followed by ineffective service via
posting and mailing, fail to establish proper notice to Defendant.
Accordingly,
the evidence shows that Defendant was not actually and did not have notice of
this action. Relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (d) is warranted.
Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendant’s motion was filed after the six-month window allotted
by section 473, subdivision (b) is irrelevant, given that subdivision (d) of
section 473 contains no time limits in which a party must move to vacate a
judgment or order that is void. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
           Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default and Default
Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to file his Answer within 10 days of
this Order.
           
Dated: September 30, 2024                                                      
 
 
                                                                              
         JARED D. MOSES     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                         