 Case Number:  23AHCV02008    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  P This case involves a  dispute between Plaintiff Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD, a California  corporation (“Plaintiff”), and Defendants Ovoda LLC, XHK Investment 3 LLC,  Zeming Qi, and Does 1 through 20. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Qi, while  serving as the general manager of Lightking America, engaged in unauthorized  transactions involving the sale of two warehouses, one located in Chino,  California, and another in Rancho Cucamonga, California. Plaintiff contends  that these sales were conducted without the necessary shareholder approval and  that the proceeds were wrongfully retained by Defendants. Plaintiff asserts seven  causes of action: (1) Conspiracy to Defraud, (2) Fraud, (3) Breach of Fiduciary  Duty, (4) Conversion, (5) Unjust Enrichment, (6) Common Count: Money Had and  Received, and (7) Negligence.  This matter involves two  separately filed motions to be relieved as counsel. One motion was filed by  Supreme Law Group, APC, Ian Li, and Avery Tam (“Attorneys”) to be relieved as  counsel for Plaintiff Yuan Sun. The second motion was filed by the same  attorneys to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Lightking America Technology  (L.A.) LTD. Both motions, filed by the Attorneys representing Plaintiffs Yuan  Sun and Lightking America Technology, seek to withdraw as counsel in this  matter.  I.                 Legal  Standard Motions to be relieved as counsel must be made on  mandatory judicial council forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053. II.              Discussion   Attorneys  seek to be relieved as counsel for both Plaintiffs – Yuan Sun, in his  individual capacity, and Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD. On August 23,  2024, Attorneys filed the necessary forms, including MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053,  listing Yuan Sun and his address as required.   Mr Li declares as to both Plaintiffs that “[t]here has been a breakdown  of the attorney-client relationship making it unreasonably difficult for  attorney to carry out its employment. Additionally,  Attorneys filed a proof of service (POS) for the motion on August 23, 2023,  showing electronic service on Yuan Sun and Lightking America Technology. An  amended proof of service was filed on September 4, 2024, which included the  MC-051 form served electronically on the Plaintiffs.  Attorneys  have complied with all procedural requirements, including the proper use of all  mandatory forms and providing proof of service to all parties involved,  including his clients. No opposition to the motion has been filed by Plaintiffs.   Both motions to be  relieved as counsel are GRANTED. The proposed orders have been signed as  of today's date and will become effective upon the filing of proof of service  of a signed copy of the order on the respective clients.Dated: September 30, 2024      JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT