Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCP03827
Plaintiff's Name: John Lee
Defendant's Name: Los Angeles City Ethics Committee
People-Names: John Lee, Mitch Englander
Company-Names: Los Angeles City Ethics Committee
Places: Los Angeles, City of Los Angeles
Dates: October 17, 2023, April 5, 2024, April 25, 2024, July 2, 2024
Events: Probable Cause Report, Probable Cause Determination, Administrative Hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Lee seeks to prevent LACEC from continuing with administrative proceeding
Facts: Lee alleged that LACEC failed to exhaust administrative remedies, and that the statute of limitations has passed
Disputes: Lee and LACEC disagree on the statute of limitations and exhaustion of administrative remedies
Acts: LACEC issued a Probable Cause Report and Determination, and Lee filed a petition for writ of mandate
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: Governmental Ethics Ordinance, Los Angeles Administrative Code, California Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Conlan v. Bonta, Alta Loma School Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On School Dist. Reorganization, Coachella Valley Mosquito & Vector Control Dist. v. California Public Employment Relations Bd.
Statutes: Government Code section 89503, Los Angeles Municipal Code section 49.5.8(B), LAAC section 24.21-24.29, CCP section 1085, CCP section 1094.5, CCP section 1094.6
Roles: Judge, Los Angeles City Ethics Committee, Director of Enforcement
Significant Statements: "Toll the statute of limitations", "Pattern and practice", "Futility exception", "Exhaustion of administrative remedies"
```

Summary:

The judge has written a tentative ruling on a demurrer filed by the Los Angeles City Ethics Committee (LACEC) to the First Amended Petition (FAP) filed by John Lee. The judge has sustained the demurrer without leave to amend, concluding that Lee has failed to exhaust his administrative remedies and has failed to adequately plead his exemption from exhaustion. The judge also found that Lee's allegations of a pattern and practice by LACEC were conclusory and insufficient to support a pattern and practice claim. The case is set for an order to show cause re: dismissal on July 23, 2024.