  Case Number:  23STCP03827    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  85 
John Lee v. Los Angeles
City Ethics Committee, 23STCP03827


Tentative decision on demurrer:
sustained without leave to amend



 
            
 
Respondent Los Angeles City Ethics Commission (“LACEC”) demurs
to the First Amended Petition (“FAP”) filed by Petitioner John Lee (“Lee”).
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and renders
the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
1. The First Amended Petition
On October 17, 2023, Petitioner Lee filed the Petition for writ
of mandate against Respondent LACEC.  The
operative pleading is the FAP, filed on April 25, 2024.  The FAP alleges two causes of action: (1) traditional
mandamus under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1085, and (2) administrative
mandamus under CCP section 1094.5.  The
FAP also seeks injunctive relief prohibiting LACEC from continuing with the administrative
proceeding again him.  The FAP alleges in
pertinent part as follows.
Lee is a resident of the City of Los Angeles (“City”) and the
City Councilman for CD 12.  FAP, ¶2.  Respondent LACEC is an agency of the City
tasked with the monitoring and enforcement of issues dealing with campaign finance.
FAP, ¶3.
On March 29, 2020, the U.S. Department of Justice issued a
press release that former City Councilman Mitch Englander (“Englander”) had
been named in a previously sealed indictment returned by a federal grand jury.  FAP, ¶2.[1]  Lee was not a party to, or the subject of, the
federal proceeding.  FAP, ¶9.  
LACEC has stated that it determined after the Englander
indictment was unsealed that Lee went on a trip to Las Vegas with a
businessperson who provided gifts that should have been reported on Lee’s Form
700. FAP, ¶¶ 3, 5.  Lee was first
contacted by LACEC investigators regarding these events on February 25, 2022,
nearly two years after the Englander indictment was unsealed and nearly five
years after the alleged incidents.  FAP,
¶8.  
Not until June 6, 2023, did LACEC, through its Director of
Enforcement, submit and serve a Probable Cause Report against Lee stemming from
alleged incidents that took place in 2016 and 2017.  FAP, ¶¶ 3-4.  The Probable Cause Report is void of
information to establish that Lee committed any ethics violations.  FAP, ¶. 
It alleged that Lee received reportable gifts from “Business Person A”
through a dinner estimated at over $50 in 2016, a poker night in May 2017
estimated at over $133, and a Vegas trip in June 2017 estimated to be over the
threshold for a reportable gift.  FAP,
¶7.  The Probable Cause Report fails to
allege or provide evidence that (1) Lee was required to report the gift under
the applicable laws, (2) he intentionally failed to disclose this information,
and (3) he knew the non-disclosure to be false.  Thus, the doctrine of fraudulent concealment
does not apply to the Probable Cause Report. FAP, ¶10.  
Under LAAC section 24.26(a)(2), “[a] Probable Cause Report
may not be served to commence administrative enforcement proceedings more than
four years after the date of an alleged violation.” FAP, ¶11.  Prior to service of the Probable Cause
Report, Lee engaged in an informal conference with LACEC’s Director of
Enforcement in which he and his counsel stated that any Probable Cause Report
would be outside the statute of limitations. FAP, ¶13.  The Director of Enforcement argued that the
statute of limitations was tolled because Lee did not provide the information
on his Form 700.  FAP, ¶13.  
Lee has exhausted his legal remedies because the Probable
Cause Report has already been issued, he has taken steps to ask the Director of
Enforcement to withdraw the Probable Cause Report, and LACEC refuses to do so.  FAP, ¶12.
On August 31, 2023, at a Probable Cause Conference, Lee
argued to the LACEC that the Probable Cause Report was untimely filed and
served and that any enforcement was barred by the statute of limitations. FAP,
¶15.  The Director of Enforcement argued
that the statute of limitations was tolled pursuant to LAAC section
24.26(a)(2)(A), because Lee was alleged to have engaged in concealment or
deceit. FAP, ¶16.   The parties provided all their evidence and
legal arguments with regard to the statute of limitations at this hearing and
any additional hearing before the LACEC would be repetitive.  FAP, ¶¶ 17-18. 

On September 22, 2023, LACEC made a Probable Cause
Determination, finding no probable cause for Count 12 of the Probable Cause
Report but finding probable cause for Counts 1-9 and 11.  FAP, ¶¶ 19-20.  In making the Probable Cause Determination,
the Executive Director stated that, based on the available evidence and the
legal framework, the statute of limitations was tolled by concealment. FAP, ¶21.
 Specifically, LACEC found that the
Director of Enforcement sufficiently alleged concealment such that it tolled
the statute of limitations until March 9, 2020, the date the Englander
indictment was unsealed. FAP, ¶22.
Any additional hearing before LACEC would be futile, as LACEC
failed to withdraw its Probable Cause Report and the parties already argued the
statute of limitations issue at the Probable Cause Conference.  FAP, ¶23. 
If Lee makes any additional argument, LACEC has already shown its
inevitable decision through the Enforcement Director’s conclusion, and LACEC’s Probable
Cause Determination, that the statute of limitations was tolled.  FAP, ¶24.  

The first cause of action for traditional mandate (CCP
§1085) alleges that LACEC served a Probable Cause Report to commence
administrative enforcement proceedings more than four years after the date of
the alleged violations and that it has a pattern and practice of finding that a
failure to provide information on a required form, such as Form 700, is
concealment which rises to toll the statute of limitations.  FAP, ¶30. 
In its rebuttal to Lee’s brief for the Probable Cause hearing, LACEC
stated that because Lee committed concealment and deceit because he did not
include information on, or amend, his Form 700. FAP, ¶31.  The Director of Enforcement also stated that
leaving information off a form is considered deceit.  FAP, ¶32. 
LACEC has a policy and practice which does not follow the law.  FAP, ¶33. 
The court should mandate that LACEC cannot take such actions in
enforcement proceedings.   FAP, ¶35.
The second cause of action for administrative mandamus (CCP
§1094.6) alleges that, under LAAC section 24.26(a)(2), “[a] Probable Cause
Report may not be served to commence administrative enforcement proceedings
more than four years after the date of an alleged violation.” FAP, ¶37.  LACEC served a Probable Cause Report to
commence administrative enforcement proceedings more than four years after the
date of the alleged violations.  FAP,
¶38.  LACEC does not have jurisdiction to
commence enforcement proceedings in this matter.  FAP, ¶39. 
Lee is entitled to a writ of administrative mandate under CCP section 1094.5
commanding LACEC to set aside the decision finding probable cause in this
matter.  FAP, ¶39.  Lee has exhausted all administrative remedies
as to the issuance of the Probable Cause Report.  FAP, ¶40.
Lee prays for (1) a peremptory writ of mandate and
preliminary and permanent injunctive relief prohibiting LACEC from continuing
enforcement proceedings against him and (2) a writ of mandate pursuant to CCP section
1094.6 ordering LACEC to set aside its Probable Cause Determination.  FAP at 7. 
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On April 5, 2024, the court sustained LACEC’s demurrer to
the Petition and granted Lee leave to amend to either plead that he has
exhausted his administrative remedies or that he is exempt from the exhaustion
requirement.  The court added that “to
the extent Petitioner is alleging a pattern and practice, he must allege facts
to support his claim for relief” under CCP section 1085. 
On April 25, 2024, Petitioner Lee filed the FAP.
 
B. Applicable Law
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and will be sustained where
the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is
timely filed within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP
§ 430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain (“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible); (g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct; (h) No certificate was
filed as required by CCP §411.35 or (i) by §411.36.  CCP §430.10. 
Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds
for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially
noticeable matters.  CCP §430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (“Blank”)
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face of the pleading includes attachments
and incorporations by reference (Frantz v. Blackwell, (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94); it does not include inadmissible hearsay.  Day v.
Sharp, (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  The ultimate
facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that
may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v.
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403. 
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.  Vance
v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates, (“Vance”) (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th
698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).
            “[A] demurrer based on a statute of limitations
will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily, barred.
[Citation.] In order for the bar of the statute of limitations
to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on
the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the
action may be barred.” State ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc.,
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 413. 
            If a demurrer is sustained, the court may
grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as may be just and shall fix
the time within which the amendment or amended pleading shall be filed.  CCP
§472a(c).  It is an abuse of discretion to grant a motion for judgment
on the pleadings without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.  Dudley v. Finance
of Transportation (“Dudley”) (2001), 90 Cal. App. 4th 255, 260.  However, in response to a demurrer and prior to the case
being at issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than
three times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to
be pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to
state a cause of action.  CCP
§430.41(e)(1).
 
C. Governing Law[2]
LACEC is charged with the impartial and effective
administration, implementation, and enforcement of the City’s governmental
ethics laws. To help restore public trust in government, the City adopted the
Governmental Ethics Ordinance (“GEO”).  Los
Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”) §§49.5.1 et seq.  The GEO governs the conduct of City officials
and others.  In part, the GEO
incorporates the Political Reform Act’s limit on the monetary value of gifts
that a City official may receive from a single source during a calendar year.  LAMC §49.5.8(B); Gov't Code §89503. 
LACEC enforcement procedures are governed by detailed
regulations contained in the Los Angeles Administrative Code (“LAAC”).  LAAC §§ 24.21–24.29.  Following a staff level investigation, the
Director of Enforcement files a probable cause report with the Executive
Director and serves it on the respondent.  LAAC §§ 24.25(a)-(b), 24.26(a)(1).  
The respondent may request a probable cause conference
conducted before the Executive Director or the Executive Director’s designee.  LAAC §§ 24.26(a)-(b), (e).  The Executive Director or designee makes the
probable cause determination.  If the
Executive Director or designee finds there is probable cause, then the Director
of Enforcement issues an “accusation.”  LAAC
§24.26(c)-(d).  The matter is then presented
to the LACEC Commissioners for the appointment of a hearing officer.  LAAC §24.27 (a). 
The hearing procedures include a provision for hearings on
preliminary matters including, procedural questions, the validity or
interpretation of the applicable laws, disqualification of a member of the
Commission from participating as a hearing officer, discovery, and any other
matter not related to the truth or falsity of the factual allegations in the
accusation or to a possible penalty. LAAC §24.27(e)(1).  
At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer will prepare a written report containing proposed findings of fact,
conclusions of law, and a summary of the evidence supporting each proposed
finding.  LAAC §24.27 (g)(2)(A).)  The matter is then considered by LACEC, which
makes a final determination.  LAAC
§24.27(g)(2)(C)-(D).
 
D. Analysis
LACEC demurs to the FAP.[3]  LACEC notes that Petitioner Lee, a Los
Angeles City Councilmember, has been accused of various GEO violations that
occurred when he served as Chief of Staff to then-Councilmember Mitchell
Englander and thereafter, including when he was a candidate for City Council,
stemming from gifts received from businessmen and lobbyists.  Dem. at 2-3.
LACEC argues that its staff investigated allegations that Lee
violated provisions of the GEO and thereafter, issued a Probable Cause Report.  Lee exercised his right to request a probable
cause conference before the Executive Director at which he argued that the
statute of limitations barred the administrative enforcement proceeding against
him. The Executive Director disagreed and issued the accusation pursuant to
LAAC section 24.26.  Dem. at 3.
Under the City Charter and LAAC section 24.27(i)(2), an
evidentiary hearing must now be held to determine whether the alleged
violations occurred.  City Charter
§706(c); LAAC §§ 24.26(d)(4), 24.27(a)(1). 
In an effort to prevent the evidentiary hearing from moving forward, on
October 17, 2023, Lee filed the Petition and seeking an injunction prohibiting
LACEC from continuing with administrative proceeding. Cameron Decl., ¶3. Dem.
at 3-4.
 
1.      Failure
to Exhaust
Petitioner Lee seeks mandamus to compel LACEC to dismiss its
accusation against him because the statute of limitations has passed.
A writ of mandate will only issue when the petitioner has no
plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at law. CCP §1086.  As a general rule, a court will not issue a
writ of mandate unless a petitioner has first exhausted its available
administrative remedies.  See, e.g.,
Alta Loma School Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On School Dist.
Reorganization, (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 542, 554.  Under this rule, an administrative remedy is
exhausted only upon termination of all available, non-duplicative
administrative review procedures.  Coachella
Valley Mosquito & Vector Control Dist. v. California Public Employment
Relations Bd., (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1072, 1080.
The exhaustion doctrine has been described as “a
jurisdictional prerequisite to resort to the courts.”  Abelleira v. District Court of Appeal,
(1941) 17 Cal.2d 280, 293.  The
exhaustion doctrine contemplates that the real issues in controversy be
presented to the administrative body, which must be given the opportunity to
apply its special expertise to correct any errors and reach a final decision,
thereby saving the already overworked courts from intervening into an
administrative dispute unless absolutely necessary.  Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court,
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 391.
The failure to allege exhaustion of administrative remedies
or facts excusing the failure to exhaust renders the petition subject to
demurrer for failure to state a cause of action.  See, e.g., Stenocord Corp.
v. City & County of San Francisco, (1970) 2 Cal.3d 984, 990.  A mere allegation that petitioners have
exhausted their administrative remedies has been held to be conclusory and
insufficient to survive demurrer.  Pan
Pacific Property v. County of Santa Cruz, (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 244,
251.  In another case, such an allegation
has also been held sufficient to survive demurrer.  Wong v. Regents of University of
California, (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 823, 829. 
Therefore, the court has discretion in determining whether the
allegation is adequate.  
While the FAP claims Lee has exhausted all administrative
remedies (FAP, ¶40), this conclusory statement is not supported by the law or
underlying plead facts.  LACEC correctly argues
(Dem. at 6) that the FAP essentially re-alleges the exhaustion in the Petition that
was rejected by Judge Beckloff.  Lee may
have raised his statute of limitations argument prior to the Probable Cause
Report but that does not exhaust his administrative remedies.  The next step is an evidentiary hearing.  LAAC §24.27. 
The action has not even been referred to the OAH as of yet. The FAP
admits that administrative remedies have not been exhausted by alleging that LACEC
will continue to move forward with an administrative hearing against Lee (FAP, ¶41)
and by praying for relief prohibiting LACEC from continuing enforcement
proceedings against him.  
Nor will Lee be significantly harmed by proceeding through
hearing.  LACEC’s procedures include a
provision for raising preliminary matters prior to the hearing, including
procedural questions, the validity or interpretation of the applicable laws,
disqualification of a member of the Commission from participating as a hearing
officer, discovery, and any other matter not related to the truth or falsity of
the factual allegations in the accusation or to a possible penalty.  LAAC §24.27(e)(1).  Lee can make his arguments regarding
jurisdiction and the statute of limitations before the ALJ assigned by the OAH.
 Lee has not exhausted his administrative
remedies on the statute of limitations issue.
Lee attempts to plead the futility exception to the
exhaustion requirement.  Exhaustion of
administrative remedies may be excused if the administrative agency has made it
clear what its ruling would be such that an administrative appeal would be
futile.  Huntington Beach Police Officers' Assn. v. City of Huntington Beach,
(1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 492, 499.  Futility
is shown when “the petitioner can positively state that the [decision maker]
has declared what its ruling will be in the particular case.”  Gantner
& Mattern Co. v. California Employment Com., (1941) 17 Cal.2d
314, 318.  The futility exception applies
only if the administrative process would serve no purpose because the agency’s
denial of relief is a fait accompli.  See Sea & Sage Audubon Society
v. Planning Commission of the City of Anaheim, (1983) 34 Cal.3d 412,
418-19.  
The futility exception to the exhaustion requirement is a
mixed question of law and fact.  Econ.
Empowerment Foundation v. Quackenbush, (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th
677, 692.  Where facts are pled that
would show an administrative remedy is futile, the matter is a question of fact
to be decided when evidence can be presented. 
Twain Harte Associates, ltd. v. County of Tuolumne, (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 71, 90.  However, allegations
contradicted by judicially noticed facts may be disregarded.  Intengan v. BAC Home Loans Servicing LP,
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1055. 
Evidence that the decision-maker has previously decided cases on similar
facts against the petitioner’s position does not show futility.  Abelleira
v. District Court of Appeal, (1941) 17 Cal.2d 280, 300.  
Lee has not alleged sufficient facts to show futility.  The matter will be heard by an ALJ from
OAH.  That hearing officer will be
independent and will make a written report containing proposed findings of
fact, conclusions of law, and a summary of the evidence supporting each
proposed finding.  LAAC §24.27
(g)(2)(A).)  The matter will then be considered
by the Commission, which makes a final determination.  LAAC §24.27(g)(2)(C)-(D).  Lee cannot speculate what the hearing officer
will recommend.  Nor can he foresee what
LACEC will do with that recommendation. 
While the Executive Director has made a Probable Cause Determination
under LAAC section 24.26, that decision was only a preliminary determination
whether the case should move forward to an evidentiary hearing.  It does not demonstrate what the hearing
officer or LACEC will do.  The issue of
tolling remains at issue for the adjudicatory phase of the process.  The FAP does not allege facts showing
futility. 
Lee has failed to exhaust his administrative remedies and
has failed to adequately plead his exemption from exhaustion.
 
2.      The
Pattern and Practice Claim
In his opposition to LACEC’s first demurrer, Lee relied on Conlan
v. Bonta, (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 745, to argue that he should be
permitted to challenge the Probable Cause Determination as it relates to his
statute of limitations argument.  Judge
Beckloff permitted Lee to plead facts to show that LACEC has a pattern and
practice of bringing enforcement actions where the statute of limitations has
expired.
Traditional mandamus is available to challenge an agency’s
pattern or practice in violation of a ministerial duty.  Conlan v. Bonta, supra, 102
Cal.App.4th at 752 (petitioners used administrative mandamus to
challenge state agency’s’ failure to reimburse them for out-of-pocket Medi-Cal expenses,
and could also use traditional mandamus to challenge agency’s practice of
failing to reimburse Medi-Cal recipients directly for amounts owed for covered
services obtained while Medi-Cal application was pending).
The FAP alleges that LACEC has a pattern and practice of
finding that a failure to provide information on a required form, such as Form
700, is concealment which rises to toll the statute of limitations.  FAP, ¶30. 
In its rebuttal to Lee’s brief for the Probable Cause hearing, LACEC
stated that Lee committed concealment and deceit because he did not include information
on, or amend, his Form 700. FAP, ¶31. 
The Director of Enforcement also stated that leaving information off a
form is considered deceit.  FAP,
¶32.  The FAP contends that LACEC has a
“pattern and practice of holding that the failure to provide information on a
Form 700 is tantamount to concealment and conceit outside the law.”  FAP, ¶35. 

This conclusory allegation is insufficient for a pattern and
practice claim.  As LACEC argues (Dem. at
8), the FAC fails to plead any facts that would support a pattern or practice
of unlawful conduct.  There is no
ministerial duty alleged.  Merely asserting
that LACEC has a pattern and practice of finding that an official’s “failure to
provide information on a required form, such as a Form 700, is concealment…”
does not show anything unlawful or wrong. 
It is little different than asserting that an employer has a custom and
practice of firing lazy or insubordinate employees.  So what? 
Some lazy or insubordinate employees should be fired, and others not.  The FAP alleges no facts of a pattern or
practice by LACEC that is in any way wrong or violative of a ministerial duty. Nor
would a pattern and practice claim halt the administrative hearing, which seems
to be Lee’s goal.[4]
 
D. Conclusion
The
demurrer to the FAP is sustained without leave to amend.  An order to show cause re:
dismissal under CCP section 581(f)(1) is set for July 23, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


