  Case Number:  21STCV07006    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  14 Pagar v KirkCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
rented his house for a small vacation party of no more than 9 people, expressly
promising not to add guests or conduct any commercial activity, including
filming, while they were occupying the premises. Defendants then brought 40
people and a commercial film crew to the property, battered the Plaintiff when
he told them to leave, stole his phone, and vandalized the property.
 
            On February
22, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint for (1) Fraud, (2) Breach of
Contract, (3) Battery, (4) Conversion, and (5) Trespass against Defendants
Jonathan Kirk (“Kirk”), Kinsza Virgil (“Virgil”), and DOES 1-40. On April 1,
2022, the default of Defendant Virgil was entered. On June 6, 2022, Defendant
Kirk filed his Answer.
 
            On November
1, 2022, this court entered a separate default judgment against Defendant
Virgil. On November 23, 2022, Defendant Virgil filed her notice of appeal. On
January 6, 2023, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal.
 
The case remains pending as to
Defendant Kirk.
 
            On November
8, 2022, this court granted a stay on discovery directed to Defendant Kirk.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for September 3, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Defendant
Kirk now moves this court for orders (1) continuing the trial date to November
5, 2024, (2) continuing all pre-trial deadlines to track the new date.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1332(a) provides that trial dates are to be treated as
firm. However, Rule 3.1332(c) provides that, although continuances are
“disfavored,” requests should be considered on an individual basis. That
subsection also includes a non-exhaustive list of possible grounds for a
continuance.
 
            Defendant
Kirk initially filed this motion on the sole grounds that he has two trial
counsel who both have scheduling conflicts: one is scheduled to commence trial
in Department 40 in this building on August 27, 2024, and the other is
scheduled to commence two different trials in Nevada on the same day this trial
is set (September 3, 2024).
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff suggested that the scheduling conflict be resolved by
advancing the trial. In reply, for the first time, Defendant Kirk’s lead
counsel raised medical issues of which he has been aware since the end of last
year. The court will not entertain a request to advance the trial date unless
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 36 or some other rule of
priority. 
 
Nor will the court consider
counsel’s medical issues as an additional ground to continue the trial, as
counsel chose to leave that information out of the moving papers and still has
other trials scheduled out-of-state at the same time. If counsel discuss the
medical issue and reach a stipulation on that basis, the court would entertain
that stipulation. But that is an issue for another day.
 
            Potential
scheduling conflicts with events that are four or five months away remain just
that: potential. If this court only scheduled trials when it was sure that all
counsel and witnesses would be available, no case would ever be tried. Should
Defense counsel actually become engaged in Department 40 ahead of this case,
this court would grant a continuance in this case as a matter of course. But
until then, this court cannot adjust its schedule based on what might happen in
other cases and other courts.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because
there is no actual conflict yet, the motion to continue is DENIED.