  Case Number:  SC127317    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Umberto Ferri v. Devgan
Enterprises, LLC Case No. SC127317
Hearing date:
August 9, 2024
Cross-Defendant
Arefadib’s Motion for Attorney Fees
 
This case involved multiple claims and cross claims alleging
breaches of leases and the approved use of a retail space leased by Devgan and Devgan
Enterprises for use as a restaurant. Arefadib initially leased the premises,
then later subleased to Ferri. Devgan and Arefadib made claims against one
another. Per the statement of decision, at trial the parties made the following
claims: 
Devgan v. Arefadib: Specific
Performance and Breach of Contract (CACI 300) 
Devgan sought indemnification
from Arefadib under Arefadib’s guarantee of Ferri's lease, arguing Arefadib was
responsible for Ferri’s unpaid rent. Since Ferri’s lease was found
unenforceable, Arefadib's guarantee was likewise unenforceable. Devgan’s
contract claims against Arefadib fail. ¿ 
 
Arefadib v. Devgan: Breach of
Contract (CACI 300) 
Arefadib sought damages for
breach of his lease agreement for 10026 Venice. Arefadib failed to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that Devgan breached any portion of the lease
related to permitting or certificates, as the lease assigned these
responsibilities to the tenant. Absent a contract provision that was violated,
this cause of action failed. ¿ 
 
Arefadib v. Devgan: Fraud¿ 
Arefadib argued Devgan
defrauded him by falsely representing he could operate a restaurant at 10026
Venice. The court found Arefadib provided no evidence of damages. This cause of
action failed for lack of damages. ¿ 
 
Arefadib v. Devgan: Unfair
Business Practices 
Arefadib sued for unfair business
practices (Bus. & Prof. Code 17200). Arefadib did not prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that he suffered damages because of Devgan’s
conduct, so he cannot prevail on this cause of action.  
 
Arefadib now moves for $166,578.90 in attorney’s fees
and costs under Civil Code §1717 and CCP §1033.5(a)(10)(A).
Arefadib’s request for the court to take judicial
notice of a copy of the State Bar’s status page of Fari Bari Nejadpour is
GRANTED under Evid Code §§ 452(c) &(h) as a record of the State Bar of
California, but is not relevant to the court’s analysis or ruling. 
A prevailing party is entitled to recover costs,
including attorneys’ fees, as a matter of right. Code Civ. Proc., §§1032(a)(4),
1032(b), 1033.5. CCP section 1033.5(a)(10)(A) states that attorney’s fees
authorized by contract may be recoverable. Civil Code section 1717 states
that “[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides
that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract,
shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then
the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether
he or she is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other costs. Civ. Code §1717(a). The
prevailing party on the contract is “the party who recovered greater relief in
the action on the contract” Civ. Code §1717(b)(1), lease para. 34.
When a statute,
such as Code of Civ. Proc. §1717, does not explicitly define “prevailing
party,” “which party, if either, prevailed in an action” is left to the
discretion of the trial court. Galan v. Wolfriver Holding Corp. (2000)
80 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1128. In a case with “mixed results,” where a party
receives only some of the relief sought, a court can determine, after comparing
each party’s objectives to the relief awarded, that there was no prevailing
party entitled to attorney’s fees. Olive v. General Nutrition Centers, Inc. (2018)
30 Cal.App.5th 804, 827.
 
Arefadib argues he is the prevailing party because the
court previously ruled that the lease was illegal and unenforceable. Based on
the April 22, 2022 statement of decision, summarized above, Arefadib is not the
prevailing party. Arefadib successfully defeated Devgan’s claims for specific
performance and breach but failed to prove his own claims against Devgan for
breach of contract, unfair business practices, and fraud in the inducement.
4/22/22 Minute Order p. 14. 
When neither party
has obtained a “simple, unqualified victory,” the court should “compare the
relief awarded on the contract claim or claims with the parties’ demands on
those same claims[,]” and determine the prevailing party through “a comparison
of the extent to which each party has succeeded and failed to succeed in its
contentions.” Hsu v. Abbara (1995)
9 Cal.4th 863, 877. 
 
Here, neither
party substantially obtained nor defeated the relief sought. Thus, as between
Arefadib and Devgan, since neither party prevailed on their respective causes
of action alleged, Arefadib is not a prevailing party and is not entitled to
prevailing party damages. DENIED. 