 Case Number:  21STCV25331    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV25331




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication of Cross Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant Palisades Homeowners
  Association #3




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
   



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication
of Cross Complaint 
2.     Memorandum of Points and Authorities
3.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
in Support 
4.     Declaration of Stacy M. Dooley 
5.     Declaration of Lisa Tashjian
6.     Compendium of Evidence in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     None.
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.     None.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 10, 2022, Plaintiffs Poppy Webster, Ludovica
Pietroiacovo, a minor, Valentina Pietroiacovo, a minor, and Michael
Pietroiacovo (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative second amended
complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Adam Gruen, Amanda Gruen, Palisades
Homeowners Association #3, and Does 1 to 100. 
 
The SAC alleges that on June 6, 2021, a pit bull owned by
Adam Gruen and Amanda Gruen (collectively, “the Gruens”), attacked Michael
Pietroiacovo and Poppy Webster’s daughter, Ludovica Pietroiacovo (“Lulu”),
biting her in the head, while her sister, Valentina Pietroiacovo (“Valentina”)
was present. (SAC ¶¶ 16–19.) Plaintiffs allege that at the time of the
incident, Lulu and Valentina were guests in the Gruens’ house, and playing with
other children in the Gruens’ garage; the subject dog was in the garage and
tied to a cord that he subsequently escaped from. (SAC ¶ 16–17.) Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant had prior notice of the dog’s dangerous condition, based
on two incidents in 2016 and 2018. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant Palisades Homeowners Association #3 (“HOA”), which is the
homeowner’s association in the community where Plaintiffs and the Gruens live,
breached its duty of care to Plaintiffs “both by failing to enforce its own
CC&Rs to abate the nuisance, enforce remedial measures, or otherwise
mitigate the danger posed by the pit bull.” (SAC ¶ 46.) Plaintiffs allege
Defendant could have warned the community, imposed restrictions on the dog, or
sought a preliminary injunction. (Id. ¶ 46.) 
 
On March 28, 2022, HOA
filed a cross-complaint against the Gruens for, among other causes of action,
breach of contract and express indemnification. The cross-complaint alleges
that the Gruens, as members of the HOA, are bound by its Covenants, Conditions
and Restrictions for Condominium Ownership (“CC&Rs”), which requires the
Gruens to defend and indemnify HOA. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 6, 24-25.) 
 
HOA now moves for summary
adjudication, arguing that the Gruens owe a contractual duty to defend HOA
against Plaintiffs’ action.[1] No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
“Parties to a contract, . . . , may define therein their duties toward one another in the
event of a third party claim against one or both arising out of their
relationship.  Terms of this kind may require one party to indemnify the
other, under specified circumstances, for moneys paid or expenses incurred by
the latter as a result of such claims. (Citation omitted.) They may also assign
one party, pursuant to the contract's language, responsibility for the other's legal
defense when a third
party claim is made against the latter.” 
(Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 551 [citation
omitted, emphasis in original] [hereafter, Crawford].)  
“In noninsurance contexts, . . . it is the indemnitee who may often
have the superior bargaining power, and who may use this power unfairly to
shift to another a disproportionate share of the financial consequences of its
own legal fault. [citations.] This public policy concern influences to some
degree the manner in which noninsurance indemnity agreements are construed. For
example, it has been said that if one seeks, in a noninsurance agreement, to be
indemnified for his or her own active negligence, or regardless of the
indemnitor's fault—protections beyond those afforded by the doctrines of
implied or equitable indemnity—language on the point must be particularly clear
and explicit, and will be construed strictly against the indemnitee.” (Id.
at 552.)  
“[T]he [indemnitor’s] duty to defend is broader than its
duty to indemnify.  The latter duty runs only to claims that are actually covered
by the [agreement], while the duty to defend extends to claims that are merely
potentially covered.  The [indemnitor’s] defense duty is a continuing one,
arising on tender of defense and lasting until the underlying lawsuit is
concluded, or until it has been shown that there is no potential for
coverage.”  (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 547 [citations and
quotations omitted, emphasis in original].)  Further, “a contractual
promise to “defend” another against specified claims clearly connotes an
obligation of active responsibility, from the outset, for the promisee’s defense against
such claims.  The duty promised is to render, or fund, the service of
providing a defense on the promisee’s behalf — a duty that necessarily arises as soon as such
claims are made against the promisee, and may continue until they have been resolved.”  (Id.
at pp. 553–554.)   
 
Equally important, “[i]f not forbidden by other, more
specific, statutes, the obligations set forth in [Civil Code] section 2778 thus
are deemed included in every indemnity agreement unless the parties indicate
otherwise.”  (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 553.)  Civil
Code section 2778 provides, in pertinent part:       
 
3. An
indemnity against claims, or demands, or liability, expressly, or in other
equivalent terms, embraces the costs of defense against such claims, demands,
or liability incurred in good faith, and in the exercise of a reasonable
discretion;
 
4.
The person indemnifying is bound, on request of the person indemnified, to
defend actions or proceedings brought against the latter in respect to the
matters embraced by the indemnity, but the person indemnified has the right to
conduct such defenses, if he chooses to do so; 
 
5.
If, after request, the person indemnifying neglects to defend the person
indemnified, a recovery against the latter suffered by him in good faith, is
conclusive in his favor against the former 
 
(Civ. Code § 2778, subds. (3)–(5).)  “By virtue of
these statutory provisions, the case law has long confirmed that, unless the
parties' agreement expressly provides otherwise, a contractual indemnitor has
the obligation, upon proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept and assume the
indemnitee's active defense against claims encompassed by the indemnity
provision. Where the indemnitor has breached this obligation, an indemnitee who
was thereby forced, against its wishes, to defend itself is entitled to reimbursement
of the costs of doing so.” (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 555.)  Moreover, 
 
Implicit in
this understanding of the duty to defend an indemnitee against all claims
“embraced by the indemnity,” as specified in subdivision 4 of section 2778, is
that the duty arises immediately upon a proper tender of defense by the
indemnitee, and thus before the litigation to be defended has determined
whether indemnity is actually owed.  This duty, as described in the statute, therefore
cannot depend on the outcome of that litigation.  It follows that, under
subdivision 4 of section 2778, claims “embraced by the indemnity,” as to which
the duty to defend is owed, include those which, at the time of tender, allege
facts that would give rise to a duty of indemnity.  Unless the indemnity
agreement states otherwise, the statutorily described duty “to defend” the
indemnitee upon tender of the defense thus extends to all such claims.”  (Id.
at p. 558.) 
 
Whether a duty to defend arises from an indemnity agreement
is question of law for a court.  (See Centex Homes v. R-Help
Construction Co., Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 1230 (“the duty to defend was
not a question of fact for the jury; the trial court was compelled to determine
[that issue of duty] as a matter of law”].) In Centex Homes, the court
rejected the promisee’s argument that “the question of scope of work under the
subcontract may be resolved independently of the underlying tort action,”
because the court found that the scope of work was an issue in the underlying
tort action, and therefore, the duty to defend arose “as a matter of law from
the mere allegation in the underlying tort action that plaintiff’s injuries
arose out of R-Help’s work.” (Id. at 1236.)  
 
The duty to defend continues until the underlying lawsuit
is concluded “or until it has been shown that there is no potential for
coverage.” (Montrose Chemical Corp. v. Superior Court (1993) 6 Cal.4th
287, 295 (emphasis in original).) “To prevail, the
insured must prove the existence of a potential for coverage, while the
insurer must establish the absence of any such potential. In other
words, the insured need only show that the underlying claim may fall
within policy coverage; the insurer must prove it cannot.” (Id.
at 300 (emphasis in original).) Doubt about an insurer’s duty to defend
generally must be resolved in the insured’s favor. (Id.)
 
Here, HOA offers the following
facts: 
 
-       
Adam and Amanda Gruen own a condominium in the HOA
community. (UMF 2.) 
-       
The HOA’s Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions
(CC&Rs) are recorded against every unit in the Community. (UMF 5.) 
-       
The Gruens received a copy of the CC&Rs when they
bought their home in 2014. (UMF 7.) 
-       
The CC&Rs state: “Each Member shall have the
rights, duties and obligations set forth in this Declaration, the Articles, the
By-Laws and the Association Rules[.] (UMF 8.) 
-       
The Declaration for the CC&Rs provides in pertinent
as follows: … [O]wners, mortgagees, occupants and all other persons hereafter
acquiring any interest in the Property or any part thereof shall at all times
enjoy the benefits of, and shall hold, sell and convey their interests subject
to the rights, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, and obligations
hereafter set forth, all which are hereby declared to be in furtherance of a
general plan established for the purpose of enhancing, perfecting and
maintaining the value, desirability, and attractiveness of the Property. (UMF
9.)
-       
Article VIII Section 10 states in pertinent part: “no
animals . . . may be kept which result in an annoyance or are obnoxious to
residents in the vicinity, and . . . , any Owner shall be absolutely liable to
each and all remaining Owners, . . . and to the Association, for any and all
damage to person . . . caused by any pets . . . kept upon the Units[.]” (UMF
10.)
-       
On November 23, 2021, the HOA tendered the Plaintiffs’
claims against the HOA to the attorney for the Gruens, asking that the Gruens
immediately agree to defend and indemnify the HOA against the Plaintiffs’
claims. (UMF 18.)
-       
The Gruens, separate and apart from their insurers,
have never accepted their obligation to indemnify the HOA against damages
arising out of their dog’s conduct. (UMF 29.) 
 
No opposition has been filed. The
motion for summary adjudication is granted.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Cross-Complainant
Palisades Homeowners Association #3’s Motion for Summary Adjudication on its
cross complaint is GRANTED.  
 
            Moving party shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


