 Case Number:  22STCV21428    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21428




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Dismiss for Failure to Prosecute




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Citiguard, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Citiguard, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to dismiss this action due
to Plaintiff Kenneth Moore’s (“Plaintiff”) failure to prosecute. No opposition
has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.410(a) states: “The
court may in its discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant
to this article on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so
appears to the court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.” “Dismissal
shall be pursuant to the procedure and in accordance with the criteria
prescribed by rules adopted by the Judicial Council.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
583.410(b).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.420 provides: 
 
(a) The
court may not dismiss an action pursuant to this article for delay in
prosecution except after one of the following conditions has occurred: 
 
(1) Service
is not made within two years after the action is commenced against the
defendant. 
 
(2) The
action is not brought to trial within the following times: 
 
(A) Three
years after the action is commenced against the defendant unless otherwise
prescribed by rule under subparagraph (B). 
 
(B) Two
years after the action is commenced against the defendant if the Judicial
Council by rule adopted pursuant to Section 583.410 so prescribes for the court
because of the condition of the court calendar or for other reasons affecting
the conduct of litigation or the administration of justice. 
 
Moreover, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1340(a)
provides, the court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant may dismiss
an action under Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410-583.430 for delay in
prosecution if the action has not been brought to trial or conditionally
settled within two years after the action was commenced against the defendant. 
 
In addition, in ruling on a motion to dismiss under section
583.410, the court must consider all matters relevant to a proper determination
of the motion, including: 
 
 (1)  The court's file in the
case and the declarations and supporting data submitted by the parties and,
where applicable, the availability of the moving party and other essential
parties for service of process;
(2)  The diligence in seeking
to effect service of process;
(3)  The extent to which the
parties engaged in any settlement negotiations or discussions;
(4)  The diligence of the
parties in pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including any
extraordinary relief sought by either party;
(5)  The nature and
complexity of the case;
(6)  The law applicable to
the case, including the pendency of other litigation under a common set of
facts or determinative of the legal or factual issues in the case;
(7)  The nature of any
extensions of time or other delay attributable to either party;
(8)  The condition of the
court's calendar and the availability of an earlier trial date if the matter
was ready for trial;
(9)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by dismissal or trial of the case; and
(10)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to a fair determination of the issue.
The
court must be guided by the policies set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
section 583.130.[1]
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1342(e).)   
 
“ ‘The competing considerations to be evaluated are the
policies of discouraging stale claims and compelling reasonable diligence
balanced against the strong public policy which seeks to dispose of litigation
on the merits rather than on procedural grounds.’ [Citation.] ‘However, it is
now well established that the policy [of preferring to dispose litigation on
the merits] only comes into play when a plaintiff makes a showing of some
excusable delay.’ [Citation.]”  (Van Keulen v. Cathay Pacific Airways,
Ltd. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 122, 131.)      
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant requests that this
action be dismissed based on Plaintiff’s failure to litigate this case.
Defendant sets forth the following procedural timeline. 
 
The complaint was filed on June 30,
2022, and alleges that Plaintiff was repeatedly punched in the face by a
security guard. 
 
Defendant served discovery
responses on Plaintiff on April 22, 2024. (Hori Decl. ¶ 4.) After learning that
Plaintiff’s counsel was seeking to be relieved, Defendant granted an extension
until two weeks after the motion to be relieved. (Id. ¶ 5.)
 
On July 8, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s counsel’s (Simon Esfandi, Esq./Julie Ahn, Esq /Compass Law Group,
LLP) motion to be relieved effective upon filing proof of service of the final
order.[2] (Min. Order,
7/8/24.) The order was signed on July 8, 2024. Proof of service of the order
was filed on October 16, 2024. Since then, Plaintiff has not
appeared in this case, and is currently self-represented. 
 
On July 11, 2024, Defendant served
a Notice of Deposition for Plaintiff, set for July 29, 2024. Plaintiff did not
appear for the deposition. (Hori Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
            On August
1, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel the written discovery and to deem
admitted the Request for Admission. On September 12, 2024, the Court granted
the motions to compel and deem admitted. Plaintiff was ordered to provide
responses and pay $1,200 in monetary sanctions within 30 days. (Min. Order,
9/12/24.) Defendant mailed notice of the ruling on September 17, 2024. Since
then, Plaintiff has not served responses nor paid the sanctions. (Hori Decl. ¶
6.) 
 
No opposition has been filed for
this motion. “The failure of the opposing party to serve and file a written
opposition may be construed by the court as an admission that the motion [to
dismiss under sections 583.410-583.430] is meritorious, and the court may grant
the motion without a hearing on the merits.” (Cal. Rules Court, rule 3.1342(b).)

 
The Court concludes that this
action has been pending for over two years. The evidence provided shows that
Plaintiff has not made any effort to prosecute this case both before and after
counsel was relieved. Therefore, seeing as Plaintiff has not provided reasons
showing an excusable delay, and applying the policy for parties to proceed with
reasonable diligence, the motion to dismiss is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Citiguard, Inc.’s motion to dismiss. 
 
The only remaining defendants are
unnamed doe defendants. Therefore, the Court dismisses Plaintiff’s action. All
dates are advanced and vacated.
 
Defendant shall provide notice and file a proof of service of such.


