  Case Number:  22STCV18741    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants
United Parcel Service, Inc. and Egidio Dellaripa’s Application to Admit
Courtney L. Burks Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 
I.                  
PRO
HAC VICE
“A person who is not a member of the State Bar of California but
who is a member in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of
any United States court or the highest court in any state . . . and who has
been retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of this state,
may in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an active member of the State Bar
of California is associated as attorney of record.” (Cal. Rules of Court
(“CRC”) Rule 9.40(a).) An applicant may not be a resident of the State of
California, regularly employed in the State of California, or regularly engaged
in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California. (CRC 9.40(a)(1–3.) 
 
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a
superior court must file with the court a verified application together with
proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section
1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the
application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar
of California at its San Francisco office.” (CRC 9.40(c)(1).) Notice must be
given sixteen days before the hearing. 
 
“The application must state; (1) The applicant's residence
and office address; (2) The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission; (3) That the applicant is a member in good
standing in those courts; (4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (5) The title of court and cause in which the applicant
has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) The name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.” (CRC 9.40(d)(1–6.)
Additionally, a $50 must be paid to the California Bar. (CRC 9.40(e).)
 
The present pro hac vice application pertains to Courtney L.
Burks, to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants United Parcel
Service and Egidio Dellaripa. Burks is a resident of Minnesota and is a member
in good standing of the Minnesota and Arizona bars. Burks has been admitted pro
hac vice in California once in the past two years.
 
The application is GRANTED.
 