 Case Number:  22STCV21271    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Air-Sea Forwarders, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication is
GRANTED.
 
Defendant
to give notice.
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff Beena Raman’s
objections to the declarations of Paul Talley and Todd Hinkley are OVERRULED,
as these witnesses may testify to the reasons for their decision to terminate
Plaintiff. 
Defendant Air-Sea
Forwarders, Inc.’s objections to the declaration of Beena Raman are OVERRULED,
as Plaintiff’s testimony as to the time in which she verbally complained to
Hinkley does not contradict her deposition testimony. At her deposition, she
stated that she could not recall the year of her complaint; her declaration
offers a deduction of a range of years based on the timing of the complaint in
relation to the pandemic. The court likewise construes Plaintiff’s statement
that a written complaint was made in January 2021 as a typo, as the complaint
attached states it was made in January 2022, as this is the date the email
referenced states, and is the date referenced in the opposition papers.
(Opposition Exh. G.) 
Defendant’s objections to
the declaration of Donna Pritchett are SUSTAINED. Pritchett offers no
foundation for her understanding of the “office manager” position, which did
not exist while she was present at the company. She provides no basis in
personal knowledge for what use the cameras set up in the office were put. Her
testimony concerning an instance of racist language used by another manager is
based on secondhand, hearsay reports. And she offers no foundation for her
testimony that Talley treated men and women employees differently.
Defendant’s objections to
the declaration of Ryan Fowler are OVERRULED. These objections are based on
Fowler’s failure to properly authenticate documents evidently produced in
discovery. Any such defect is easily curable. When evidence material to a
dispositive motion fails for an easily rectified procedural reason, it is
appropriate for the court to allow the party an opportunity to remedy the
failings before granting dispositive relief. (See Ambriz v. Kelegian (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1519,
1527–28 [“The court should have allowed Ambriz's counsel to attempt to remedy
the perceived failings before ruling against Ambriz on a dispositive motion.”].)
Indeed, the relatively minor procedural infirmity that Defendant identifies
would not prevent this court from considering the declaration, as the testimony
is otherwise “evidence which is competent, relevant and not barred by a
substantive rule.” (Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building
Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947 [discussing evidence considerable in hearing
an anti-SLAPP motion].)
II.               
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party
will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant Air-Sea
Forwarders, Inc. (Defendant) moves for summary judgment or adjudication on
Plaintiff Beena Raman’s claims for employment discrimination (based on gender
and national origin) and retaliation, on the grounds that Plaintiff was
discharged from her employment with Defendant based on legitimate
staff-reduction measures undertaken in 2021. (Motion at pp. 4–12.)
 
Plaintiff worked at
Defendant’s Inglewood office from 1989 onward as an administrative assistant
and alternative security coordinator. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts (PUMF) No. 1.)[1]
Plaintiff was promoted to the alternate security coordinator in 2012 on the
recommendation of her supervisor Paul Talley. (PUMF No. 4.) Plaintiff reported
to Talley and Todd Hinkley from 2013 on. (PUMF No. 5.) Plaintiff’s duties did
not include the supervising of other employees. (PUMF No. 6.)[2]
In 2021, Hinkley and
Talley decided to close Defendant’s Los Angeles warehouse, resulting in the
layoff of two warehouse employees and the transfer of the warehouse manager to
another position. (PUMF No. 8–9.) Defendant also laid off a receptionist, an employee
in its Los Angeles MIS department. (PUMF No. 12–13.) In 2021, Defendant laid
off six employees, five of whom worked in Los Angeles, four of whom were male.
(PUMF No. 16.) 
 
Talley testifies
that the warehouse closure reduced Plaintiff’s job duties to the point that her
position was no longer viable. (Talley Decl. ¶¶ 14­–15.) Plaintiff disputes
that the warehouse closure meaningfully affected her job duties. (Opposition
Exh. N at pp. 88–89.) It was originally assumed that Plaintiff would take over
the newly vacant receptionist position, but Talley contends that the existence
of an automatic switchboard obviated the need for a new receptionist. (Talley
Decl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff notes, however, that the automatic phone system had been
in place since 2017. (Opposition Exh. N at p. 89.) Talley informed Plaintiff of
her termination on October 12, 2021, with her final day of work to take place
in January 2022. (PUMF No. 38.)
 
To establish a
discrimination claim under FEHA, an employee must prove the following elements:
“(1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the
position he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3)
he suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or
denial of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive.” (Dinslage v. City
and County of San Francisco (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 368, 378.) If the employer
offers evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action, “the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving the employer's proffered reason was
pretextual.” (Brundage v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228,
236.)
 
Defendant argues
that it has presented evidence of a legitimate nondiscriminatory motive for
Plaintiff’s termination, namely an overall reduction in staff that left
Plaintiff with no duties to fulfill.
 
Plaintiff in
opposition presents the following evidence suggestive of discriminatory motive.
Plaintiff testifies that Talley spoke “nicely” when talking to men, and that he
talked “down” to women in a way he did not speak to his male colleagues.
(Opposition Exh. N at p. 52.) Plaintiff once heard Talley refer to another
female employee as a “bitch.” (Opposition Exh. N at p. 115.) Plaintiff claims
that she witnessed Talley’s dismissive treatment of a third-party vendor who
was represented by a woman, and that he told Plaintiff that he didn’t like the
way the representative talked. (Opposition Exh. N at pp. 50–52, 115.) Plaintiff
also identified one instance during or after the COVID pandemic in which Talley
sent home a female employee for coughing, when he did not send a male employee
home for coughing. (Motion Exh. A at pp. 129–131.)
 
Plaintiff stated
that once she complained to Todd Hinkley of Talley’s behavior, specifically his
habit of departing the office and walking by her desk without greeting her or
informing her of whether and when he will return.  (Opposition Exh. N at pp. 45–46.) When
Plaintiff told Hinkley that she believed Talley was treating her dismissively
because she was a woman, Hinkley laughed. (Opposition Exh. N at pp. 48–49.)
Talley’s behavior afterward did not change, but Hinkley started contacting
Plaintiff to inform her when Talley would be in the office. (Opposition Exh. N
at p. 48.) Plaintiff also submits the declaration of Donna Pratchett, who
worked with Talley and Plaintiff before leaving Defendant in April 2018, who
testifies that despite having a business degree (which Talley lacked), when she
offered advice on business matters, Talley told her that her opinions didn’t
count. (Pritchett Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff also notes
that, although Defendant offered her the receptionist position in 2021 as an
alternative to laying her off (Opposition Exh. K at p. 84.), Talley posted a
job opening for a “receptionist” in October 2021, shortly after notifying
Plaintiff of her termination. (Opposition Exh. B.) 
 
Defendant
has satisfied its initial burden on summary judgment to show both the absence
of triable issues on Plaintiff’s prima facie case of discrimination, and to
show the existence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory motive for Plaintiff’s
termination. As to Plaintiff’s prima facie case, Plaintiff identifies various
instances in which Talley was critical of or cold toward women he worked with,
and one instance in which he used the term “bitch” to describe another woman.
However, the singular use of such an epithet has been held insufficient to
constitute evidence of discriminatory motive. (Kriss v. Sprint Communications
Co., Ltd. Partnership (8th Cir. 1995) 58 F.3d 1276, 1282; cf. Kelley v. The Conco
Companies (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 191, 205 [“T]he term ‘bitch’ is not so
sex-specific and derogatory that its mere use necessarily constitutes
harassment because of sex.”).) Plaintiff’s corroborating instances of Talley’s
cold treatment of other women are also insufficient to create triable issues of
fact on the existence of sex-bias in her termination decision, as these other
instances are, like “stray remarks,” remote in time and circumstance from the
termination of Plaintiff’s position, and moreover lack any context indicating
bias on the basis of sex or gender, as opposed to dislike toward a particular
person. (See Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830,
867 [“A ‘stray’ discriminatory remark that a court determines is unconnected to
the adverse employment action is insufficient evidence of a discriminatory
motive, as a matter of law, and may be wholly disregarded by the court.”].) 
Any inference that could be
created from such facts is further vitiated by evidence that the same
decisionmaker charged with taking adverse employment actions toward Plaintiff because
of her sex was also the decisionmaker responsible for prior, favorable
employment actions taken in her favor. “[W]here the same actor is responsible
for both the hiring and the firing of a discrimination plaintiff, and both
actions occur within a short period of time, a strong inference arises that there
was no discriminatory motive.” (Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield Western,
Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 798, 808.) Talley was the supervisor who
recommended Plaintiff for the alternate security coordinator position in 2012.
(Talley Decl. ¶ 5.) Talley also hired a woman to occupy the receptionist
position in 2021, the same year Plaintiff alleges she was denied the receptionist
position because of her gender. (Opposition Exh. L at pp. 100–102.) 
Although a discrimination plaintiff can show
circumstances evidencing discriminatory motive for a discharge by showing that
she was “replaced by a person outside the protected class” (Vincent v.
Brewer Co. (6th Cir. 2007) 514 F.3d 489, 494), no such replacement occurred
here. Plaintiff has presented evidence that her ordinary duties of purchasing
office supplies and overseeing certain TSA compliance tasks were transferred following
her termination to John Cohn, it is undisputed that Cohn occupied a different
position with different responsibilities in addition to those formerly borne by
Plaintiff, including supervising the entire Los Angeles staff. (Motion Exh. B
at p. 81.)  As Defendant notes, this is
analogous to the situation discussed in Foroudi v. Aerospace Corporation
(2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 992, 1008 in which “[the defendant] Aerospace
eliminated [the plaintiff] Foroudi’s position and gave his duties to Nuth,”
another employee. (Reply at p. 5.) The court held:
 
Aerospace, in other words, essentially
created a new position that combined Foroudi's and Nuth's former duties. It is
not enough, therefore, for Foroudi to show he was more qualified than Nuth for
his former position. Instead, to raise an inference of discrimination, he must
show, at the very least, that he was as qualified as Nuth for the new, combined
position. Foroudi makes no attempt to do so.
 
(Id. at p. 1008–1009.)
The situation here is similar, in that Plaintiff does not contend that she was
qualified to occupy Kohn’s position, only that she was qualified to undertake
certain of the duties that Kohn absorbed. 
The same facts support the
absence of triable issues as to Defendant’s legitimate reason for Plaintiff’s
termination, i.e. the elimination of her position in conjunction with other
layoffs as the Los Angeles office. Although Plaintiff notes that a job listing
was made for a receptionist after she was notified of her termination, the
undisputed evidence is that this position has never been filled. (Opposition
Exh. L at p. 91.) 
The
same facts cited above establish the absence of triable issues as to
Plaintiff’s claim for national origin discrimination. Plaintiff’s showing of
circumstances evidencing bias based on national origin consists of the
declaration of Donna Pritchett, who testifies to hearing secondhand of an
incident in which a company executive was overheard to call a black temporary
employee as “a monkey.” (Pritchett Decl. ¶ 6.) Pritchett offers no basis
however for her knowledge of the facts of this incident, save hearsay.
Likewise, the sole basis for Plaintiff’s retaliation claim is the temporal
proximity between her complaint to Hinkley, which at her deposition she could
not pin to a particular date or year. (Motion Exh. A at pp. 46–47.) Although
Plaintiff in opposition presents a declaration stating that the complaint was
made some time between 2018 and 2020 (Beena Decl. ¶ 3), this evidence once more
does not rebut the legitimate, nonretaliatory reason proffered by Defendant for
plaintiff’s termination. (See Manavian v. Department of Justice (2018)
28 Cal.App.5th 1127, 1141 [stating that a defendant may rebut a prima facie
showing of retaliation with “a legitimate, nonretaliatory explanation for its
acts”].)
The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 


