  Case Number:  22STCV39087    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Greg Kunath, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39087




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Superior Printing, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 22, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Motion to Bifurcate the Liability/Compensatory Damages and Punitive
Damages Phases of Trial 
Moving Party: Defendant Superior
Printing, Inc. 
Responding Party: Unopposed  
 
T/R:    DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO BIFURCATE THE
LIABILITY/COMPENSATORY DAMAGES AND PUNITIVE DAMAGES PHASES OF TRIAL IS GRANTED.

 
            DEFENDANT
to notice.  
 
            The Court
considers the moving papers. No opposition papers were filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December
16, 2022, Plaintiff Greg Kunath sued Defendants Superior Printing, Inc.,
alleging causes of action for (1) age-based discrimination; (2) failure to
prevent discrimination; (3) wrongful termination in violation of public policy;
(4) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (5) unfair competition.
Plaintiff alleges that he was subjected to discriminatory acts during his
employment with Defendant and was wrongfully terminated. 
 
            Before the
Court is Defendant’s motion to bifurcate the liability/compensatory damages and
punitive damages phases of trial.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
“In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Civ. Code §
3295 was enacted “to protect defendants from the premature disclosure of their
financial condition when punitive damages are sought.” (Medo v. Superior
Court (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 64, 67.) Civ. Code § 3295 provides that “[t]he
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of [a] defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible
only as to the defendant . . . found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.” (Civ. Code § 3295(d).)  Evidence that may confuse the jury is
properly excluded. (People v. Harris (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 727, 739.)
 
The Court must grant the motion pursuant
to Civ. Code § 3295(d). The motion is unopposed.  
 
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate the liability/compensatory
and punitive damages phases of trial is GRANTED.  In Phase 1 the jury will determine liability,
compensatory damages, and liability for punitive damages. In Phase 2 the jury
will determine the amount of punitive damages.
 
 
 