  Case Number:  18STCV06807    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50



brian weiner, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
onyx tower group, llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


18STCV06807 




Hearing Date:


September 27, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS IN THE AMOUNT OF
  $42,655.00 AGAINST SAID HAKIM, SAM HAKIM, JULIA HAKIM, TANYA HAKIM, AND SAM
  HAKIM DERIVATIVELY ON BEHALF OF ONYX TOWER GROUP, LLC




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



Background
Plaintiff Brian Weiner,
individually and derivatively on behalf of Onyx Tower Management, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on November 30, 2018 against a number of
defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) October
22, 2020, alleging causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, constructive trust, accounting,
declaratory relief, constructive fraud, fraud, and appointment of receiver. 
On January 19, 2021, Cross-Complainants
Said Hakim, Tanya Hakim, Julia Hakim, Sam Hakim, an individual, Sam Hakim, suing
derivatively on behalf of Onyx Tower Management, LLC, and Sam Hakim, suing derivatively on
behalf of Onyx Tower Group, LLC filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff. The Cross-Complaint alleges
causes of action for (1) derivative action brought on behalf of Onyx Tower
Management, LLC - breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary duties, (4) derivative action brought
on behalf of Onyx Tower Group, LLC – breach of contract, and (5)
misrepresentation. 
Plaintiff asserts that
he is “the prevailing party on Defendants’ Cross Complaint after having
[Plaintiff’s] Demurrer sustained in its entirety on April 28, 2021.” (Mot. at
p. 2:6-7.) 
Plaintiff now moves for
an award of attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $42,655.00 against Said
Hakim, Sam Hakim, Julia Hakim, Tanya Hakim, and Sam Hakim derivatively on
behalf of Onyx Tower Group, LLC. The motion is opposed.[1] 
Discussion
A.    Procedural Arguments 
As an initial matter,
the opposition asserts that the instant motion is untimely. The opposition
cites to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1702, which provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute,
this rule applies in civil cases to claims for statutory attorney’s fees and
claims for attorney’s fees provided for in a contract.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702, subd. (a).) Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1702, subdivision
(b)(1), “[a] notice of motion to claim attorney’s fees for services up to
and including the rendition of judgment in the trial court--including attorney’s
fees on an appeal before the rendition of judgment in the trial court--must be
served and filed within the time for filing a notice of appeal under rules 8.104 and 8.108 in an unlimited civil case or
under rules 8.822 and 8.823 in a limited civil
case.” 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.104,
subdivision (a), “[u]nless a statute or rules 8.108,
8.702, or 8.712 provides otherwise, a notice of appeal must be filed on or
before the earliest of: (1) (A) 60 days after the superior court clerk serves on the party filing
the notice of appeal a document entitled ‘Notice of Entry’ of judgment or a
filed-endorsed copy of the judgment, showing the date either was served;
(B) 60 days after the party filing the notice of
appeal serves or is served by a party with a document entitled ‘Notice of Entry’
of judgment or a filed-endorsed copy of the judgment, accompanied by proof of
service; or (C) 180 days after entry of judgment.” 
The opposition notes that here, on November 18, 2022, a Judgment was
entered and filed in this action providing, inter alia, that “Plaintiff Brian Weiner’s demurrer to
the 
Cross-Complaint filed on or about
February 18, 2021[2] by Defendants Said Hakim, Sam Hakim,
Tanya Hakim, Julia Hakim, Sam Hakim suing derivatively on behalf of Onyx Management Group LLC,
and Sam Hakim suing derivatively on behalf of Onyx Tower Group, LLC (“Cross-Complainants”) came
up for hearing on April 28, 2021…The Court sustained Plaintiff’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint,
with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff
gave notice of the ruling on the demurrer on April 28, 2021 to Defendants
through their attorneys of
record. Cross-Complainants
failed to amend their Cross-Complaint within 20 days, or at anytime thereafter. Therefore, the Court enters judgment of
dismissal on Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint in favor of Plaintiff Brian Weiner and
against Cross-Complainants Said Hakim, Sam Hakim, Tanya Hakim, Julia Hakim, Sam Hakim suing
derivatively on behalf of Onyx Management Group, LLC, and Sam Hakim suing derivatively on behalf of
Onyx Tower Group, LLC.” 
The Declaration of
Dennis P. Wilson filed in support of the opposition provides, inter alia,
“[a]ttached to the Opposition to the Motion for Attorney’s Fees and Costs as
Exhibit ‘2’ is a true and correct copy of the filed Court Ordered
Judgement of Dismissal, and the Proof of
Service from Plaintiffs to
Cross-Complainants.” (Wilson Decl., ¶ 5.) The Court notes that Exhibit 2 to Mr.
Wilson’s declaration consists of the November 18, 2022 Judgment, as well as a
proof of service dated “October 31, 2022” pertaining to service of an “Order
Granting Court Judgment.” (Wilson Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 2.) As October 31, 2022 is
before November 18, 2022, it is unclear how this proof of service could pertain
to service of the November 18, 2022 Judgment. The opposition contends, however,
that “Plaintiffs…had to file their Motion for Attorney’s Fees 60 days after
11-18-2022.” (Opp’n at p. 4:27-28.) The
Court notes that 60 days after November 18, 2022 is January 17, 2023. The
instant motion was filed on January 27, 2023. 
            In
the reply, Plaintiff notes that the Court also issued a minute order on
November 29, 2022 providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court enters
judgment of dismissal on Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint in favor of
Plaintiff Brian Weiner and Against Cross-Complainants Said Hakim, Sam Hakim,
Tanya Hakim, Julia Hakim, Sam Hakim suing derivatively on behalf of Onyx Management
Group, LLC and Sam Hakim suing derivatively on behalf of Onyx Tower Group, LLC.
Plaintiff is to give notice. Certificate of Mailing is attached.” 
            Plaintiff
thus asserts in the reply that “[t]he Operative Judgment was entered on
November 29, 2022 and the clerk gave notice of the judgment on that date by
mail…Under Rule 8.104(a) of the California Rules of
Court, notice of motion for attorneys’ fees was required to be filed within 60
days after that, by January 28, 2023…Plaintiffs subsequently served and filed
the Motion on January 27, 2023, which was 59 days after the superior court
clerk filed and mailed the November 29, 2022 Judgment.” (Reply at p. 3:2-7.) 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court does not find that the opposing parties have demonstrated
that the instant motion is untimely.
B.     Entitlement to Attorney’s Fees
Civil Code section 1717, subdivision (a) provides: “In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” In addition, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(10)(A) provides that attorney’s fees,
when authorized by contract, are allowable as
costs.
            In the motion, Plaintiff asserts
that “[t]here is no doubt Defendants’ causes of
action at a minimum for: 1) Derivative Action; 2) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; 3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4) Derivative Action; and 5) Misrepresentation were actions ‘on a
contract’ pursuant to Section 1717. All of these
causes of action sought
relief pursuant to the terms of an ‘agreement,’ and more specifically the Asset
Management Agreement.” (Mot. at p. 4:2-7.) Plaintiff
also contends that “Defendants requested attorneys’ fees in the Cross-Complaint,
pursuant to the OTM Agreement and the Asset Management Agreement, which is
alleged in the TAC and attached thereto as Exhibit‘4’ and ‘5.’ See, e.g.
Cross-Complaint, ¶ 6, 25.” (Mot. at p. 2:6-8.) 
In the opposition, the
opposing parties do not dispute that Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees
here. 
C.    
The Hourly Rate of
Counsel and the Reasonableness of the Requested Fees
“[T]he fee
setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the
number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. …
The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work. The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of
factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value
for the legal services provided.”
(PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095 [internal
citations omitted].)
“[T]he
court’s discretion in awarding attorney fees is … to be exercised so as to
fully compensate counsel for the prevailing party for services reasonably
provided to his or her client.” (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 395.) The trial court may reduce the award
where the fee request appears unreasonably inflated, such as where the
attorneys’ efforts are unorganized or duplicative. (Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635, fn. 21.)
“[T]he verified time statements of the attorneys, as officers of the court, are
entitled to credence in the absence of a clear indication the records are
erroneous.” (Horsford v. Bd. of Trustees
of California State Univ., supra,
at p. 396.)
Plaintiff
submits the Declaration of Michael J. Saltz and Elana R. Levine in connection
with the instant motion. Mr. Saltz’s requested hourly rate is $800 per hour,
and Ms. Levine’s requested hourly rate is $650 per hour. (Saltz Decl., ¶ 9;
Levine Decl., ¶ 8.) Mr. Saltz’s and Ms. Levine’s background and experience are
set forth in their respective supporting declarations. (Saltz Decl., ¶¶ 10-11,
Levine Decl., ¶¶ 8, 10.) 
In
the opposition, the opposing parties argue that “Plaintiff…does not provide a
copy of his retainer agreement with his attorneys so we don’t know his
agreed-upon billing rate, let alone other terms of retention, other than the
unsubstantiated conclusion that his attorneys hourly rates are $800 and $650.”
(Opp’n at p. 3:16-19.) But the opposing parties do not cite to any legal
authority demonstrating that a party must submit a retainer agreement in
connection with a motion for attorney fees. Plaintiff’s counsel submit
declarations under penalty of perjury setting forth their hourly rates. 
In
addition, Plaintiff cites to Business and
Professions Code section 6149, which provides
that “[a] written fee contract shall
be deemed to be a confidential communication within the meaning of subdivision
(e) of Section 6068 and of Section 952 of the Evidence Code.” Plaintiff also cites to Steiny & Co. v. Cal. Elec. Supply Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 285, 293, where the Court of Appeal noted
that “[a]n attorney’s testimony as to the number of hours worked is sufficient
evidence to support an award of attorney fees, even in the absence of detailed
time records. The trial court did not err in crediting the attorney declaration
here, which included detailed evidence of hours spent, tasks concluded, and
billing rates.” (Internal citation omitted.) 
The opposing parties otherwise do not challenge
Plaintiff’s counsel’s requested hourly billing rates. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel’s
hourly billing rates are reasonable
and commensurate with rates charged by attorneys with comparable skill and
experience.
Plaintiff’s
counsel indicate that they seek attorney’s fees and costs in the total amount
of $42,655.00. (Saltz Decl., ¶ 6.) Mr. Saltz states that he spent a total of
9.4 hours in connection with responding to defendants’ Cross-Complaint,
reviewing the record, ensuring the Judgment was entered, and drafting the
instant fee motion, for a total of $7,520.00 in requested attorney’s fees.
(Saltz Decl., ¶¶ 7, 9.) Ms. Levine states that she spent a total of 53.2 hours
in connection with responding to defendants’ Cross-Complaint, reviewing
the record, ensuring the Judgment was entered, and drafting the instant fee
motion, for a total of $34,580.00 in requested attorney’s fees. (Levine Decl.,
¶¶ 6, 9.) Mr. Saltz attaches as Exhibit 1 to his declaration “an excel
spreadsheet containing the relevant time records for both [Mr. Saltz] and Ms.
Levine.” (Saltz Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) 
            In the opposition, the opposing
parties assert that Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1 contains improper “blocked billing
entries.” Plaintiff cites to Jaramillo v.
County of Orange (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 811, 830, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[b]lock billing
is particularly problematic in cases where there is a need to separate out work
that qualifies for compensation under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1021.5 from work that does not.” 
The
opposing parties contend that “there appears to [sic] at least fifteen ‘Blocked
Billing’ entries that read, ‘Draft/Revise Dispositive Motions.’” (Opp’n at p.
3:3-4.) The Court notes that the opposing parties do not identify which entries
they are referring to. In addition, as noted by Plaintiff, the entries do not
solely state “Draft/Revise Dispositive Motions,” rather, the entries then go on
to detail how the time was spent. Furthermore, the Court does not find that the
opposing parties have demonstrated that any particular billing entries
reference work that does not qualify for compensation here.  
            The opposing parties also assert
that “[t]he Declarations of attorneys Michael Saltz and Elana Levine fail to
establish why it was necessary for two different attorneys to work on the
Plaintiffs’ single Demurrer.” (Opp’n at p. 3:1-2.) The Court does not find that
it is unreasonable for two attorneys to work on a demurrer. In addition, Plaintiff’s
counsels’ declarations indicate that Mr. Saltz spent less time on “[r]esponding
to Defendants’ Cross-Complaint” than Ms. Levine. (See Saltz Decl., ¶ 7;
Levine Decl., ¶ 6.) 
            The opposing parties also note that
a February 14, 2021 billing entry from Ms. Levine for 2.1 hours provides,
“Drafted timeline of facts for demurrer based upon extensive record.” (Saltz
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) The opposing parties contend that this entry is “unlikely”
because the Cross-Complaint allegedly has the same underlying facts as the
Complaint in this action. (Opp’n at p. 3:8-14.) The Court does not find that
the requested 2.1 hours for the foregoing task is unreasonable.  
The
opposing parties also contend that “[i]t should not have taken at most 7 hours
to prepare the Demurrer.” (Opp’n at p. 5:16.)[3]
But as noted by Plaintiff, the opposing parties do not cite to any legal
authority to support this assertion. In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel states that
the requested fees include, but are not limited to “[r]esponding to Defendants’
Cross-Complaint by reviewing it, reading all of the agreements referenced in
it, verifying that none of the agreements contain any of the obligations or covenants
that they claimed were breached, and filing a demurrer,” “[p]ursuing Judgment
on the Cross-Complaint,” and “[p]reparing this Motion for Attorneys’ Fees.”
(Saltz Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he nature of the litigation – in
consideration of the nuanced interplay of issues arising from detailed
contracts between the parties and the legal effect thereof– required research,
analysis, and briefing by Plaintiffs.” (Mot. at p. 5:26-6:1.) 
            The opposing parties also note that
an April 19, 2021 billing entry from Mr. Saltz for 2.3 hours provides “[p]lan
and prepare for for [sic] Hearing on Demurrer and Reviewed extensive file.”
(Saltz Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) The opposing parties assert that “[t]his should have
taken .5 hours at most since there was no opposition to review.” (Opp’n at p.
5:18-19.) However, the Court finds that the requested 2.3 hours is reasonable. 
            The opposing parties also assert
that “on page 2 of Exhibit 1 Plaintiffs counsels [sic] billed 2.0 hours to
prepare and review the simple Judgement. At most this should not have taken
more than 1 hour.” (Opp’n at p. 5:19-21.) The Court notes that it is unable to
find any such billing entry. 
            The opposing parties also assert
that “[t]he Memorandum of Costs was then billed at .4 hours, but it was filed
late and this billing input should be stricken.” (Opp’n at p. 5:21-23.)[4]
However, the opposing parties do not further explain why they contend the
Memorandum of Costs was untimely filed. 
In
addition, the Court notes that the April 28, 2021 Order on Plaintiff’s demurrer
to the Cross-Complaint provides, inter alia, that “[a] review of the
Cross-Complaint reveals that Cross-Complainants failed to allege when the
alleged breaches of the OTM Agreement and the misrepresentations took place.
Because Cross-Complainants have failed to set forth material dates, it is unclear
whether the causes of action in the Cross-Complaint are time-barred.” April 28,
2021 Order at p. 3:4-7.) The Court also found that the allegations as to
Plaintiff’s alleged breach of fiduciary duty were uncertain, as specified in
the April 28, 2021 Order, and that the misrepresentation cause of action was
not alleged with the requisite specificity. (Id.
at p. 3:8-12.) 
The
opposing parties contend that “[t]he Court’s Ruling from 4-28-2021, indicated
that it was based upon the Cross-Complaint not identifying specific dates of
the breaches of contract and/or the misrepresentations and/or the specific
fiduciary duties that were breached. This did not require an over expansive
deep dive into the Plaintiffs’ own complaint and the proposed Cross-Complaint.”
(Opp’n at p. 5:28-6:5.) The Court does not see how this argument is relevant to
the reasonableness of the time Plaintiff’s counsel spent on the demurrer. In
addition, as discussed above, Plaintiff’s counsel state that the requested fees
include, inter alia, “[r]esponding
to Defendants’ Cross-Complaint by reviewing it, reading all of the agreements referenced
in it, verifying that none of the agreements contain any of the obligations or covenants
that they claimed were breached, and filing a demurrer,” as well as
“[r]eviewing the extensive record to determine the applicability of the
agreements alleged in the Cross-Complaint…” (Saltz Decl., ¶ 7; Levine Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Lastly,
Plaintiff seeks $555.00 in costs. (Saltz Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff seeks costs for
“court filing and motion fees” and for “filing fees for attorneys’ fees
motion.” (Saltz Decl., ¶ 8.) The opposing parties do not appear to challenge the
requested amount of costs.  
Based
on the foregoing, the Court does not find that the opposing parties have
demonstrated that Plaintiff’s requested attorney’s fees or costs should be
reduced.
///
///
Conclusion
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees is granted. Plaintiff is
awarded attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $42,655.00 against Said
Hakim, Sam Hakim, Julia Hakim, Tanya Hakim, and Sam Hakim derivatively on
behalf of Onyx Tower Group, LLC. 
Plaintiff is ordered to
provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  September 27, 2023                       ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


