 Case Number:  21STCV18579    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 6/5/24                                                               
TRIAL DATE: 9/9/24
Case #21STCV18579
 
MOTION TO ALLOW
A CLAIM FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
 
Original motion filed on 4/11/24.  Second Amended Notice of Motion filed on 5/8/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Valeria Segoviano Hernandez
RESPONDING PARTY # 1: Defendant Walmart Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY # 2: Defendant The Clorox Company
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order deeming various
paragraphs regarding punitive damages against Defendant Walmart Inc. (¶¶32-53
and 61) and a 4th cause of action for Gross Negligence (¶¶79-86)
against Defendant Walmart Inc. and The Clorox Company to be incorporated into
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint. 
Additionally, Plaintiff seeks to add a prayer for punitive damages
against all Defendants in relation to the 1st cause of action and a
prayer for relief regarding the 4th cause of action which seeks
compensatory and punitive damages against all Defendants.
 
Alternatively, Plaintiff requests an order
granting her leave to amend to file a Fourth Amended Complaint which
incorporates the proposed additions.  

 
RULING: The
motion is denied without prejudice.    
 

SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an incident that occurred on
5/25/20 at a Walmart located in Stevenson Ranch, California.  On that date at the Walmart, Plaintiff
Valeria Segoviano Hernandez  (Plaintiff)
grabbed a bottle of Clorox bleach from the top shelf.  Plaintiff claims that the cap on the bottle
was not secured causing it to spill all over her right arm causing her injury
and permanent scarring. 
 
On 5/18/21, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendants Walmart Inc. (Walmart) and The Clorox Company (Clorox) for general
negligence, premises liability and products liability.  On 6/21/21, as a matter of right, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint alleging the same three causes of action.  On 8/10/23, pursuant to stipulation and
order, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint alleging causes of action
for: (1) Strict Liability – Design Defect, (2) Negligence – Failure to Recall
and (3) Negligence.  The Second Amended
Complaint included a claim for punitive damages against Clorox.  Clorox filed a motion to strike the claim and
in response, on 1/10/24, Plaintiff, again pursuant to a stipulation and order,
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1)
Strict Liability – Design Defect, (2) Negligence – Failure to Recall and (3)
Negligence.  The Third Amended Complaint also
includes a claim for punitive damages against Clorox in relation Plaintiff’s 1st
cause of action.  (Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) ¶39).  
On 3/20/24, the Court denied Clorox’s motion to strike various
portions of the Third Amended Complaint, including allegations regarding
punitive damages against Clorox.  (See
3/20/24 Minute Order).  
 
On 4/11/24, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order deeming various paragraphs regarding punitive damages against Walmart
(¶¶32-53 and 61) and a 4th cause of action for Gross Negligence
(¶¶79-86) against Walmart and Clorox to be incorporated into Plaintiff’s Third
Amended Complaint.  Additionally,
Plaintiff seeks to add a prayer for punitive damages against all Defendants in
relation to the 1st cause of action and to add a prayer for relief
regarding the 4th cause of action which seeks compensatory and
punitive damages against all Defendants. 
Alternatively, Plaintiff requests an order granting her leave to amend
to file a Fourth Amended Complaint which incorporates the proposed additions.  Both Walmart and Clorox have opposed the
motion.  Plaintiff has filed a combined
reply to the oppositions.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff has failed to provide proper notice of the
relief sought.  See CRC 3.1110(a).  Plaintiff has titled this motion as a “Motion
to Allow a Claim for Punitive Damages Against Defendant Walmart, Inc.” and then
lists numerous paragraphs Plaintiff seeks to have “incorporated within her
Third Amended Complaint.”  (See
Notice of Motion, p.1:16-18, p.2:5-6).  Confusingly,
Plaintiff seeks to incorporate “new” paragraphs numbered 32-53 into her Third
Amended Complaint when paragraphs with the same numbers already exist in the
pleading and without explaining how that will affect the paragraphs which
already exist.  (See Notice of
Motion, p.2:9-p.7:28; Third Amended Complaint). 
Plaintiff also seeks to add a paragraph 61 regarding punitive damages;
however, it is not clear where/in what cause of action that allegation would be
included.  (See Notice of Motion,
p.8:3-5).  Additionally, despite the
title of the motion indicating that it only seeks to add a claim for punitive
damages against Walmart, Plaintiff also seeks to add the 4th cause
of action for Gross Negligence against both Walmart and Clorox.  (See Notice of Motion, p.8:8-p.9:20;
Third Amended Complaint).
 
Plaintiff supports this unconventional request to deem
various paragraphs as part of her current Third Amended Complaint by citing CCP
187, regarding this Court’s jurisdiction, and CCP 128(a)(3) and (8), regarding
this Court’s inherent power to control its proceedings.  Since  specific
statutes (i.e., CCP 473(a), CCP 576) and court rules (CRC 3.1324) exist regarding
amending pleadings, there is no need for this Court to exercise its inherent
equitable powers to address a gap in the law with regard to the relief
requested.  (See Motion, p.12:3-20).
 
As an alternative to the foregoing, Plaintiff requests
that the Court treat the instant motion as a motion for leave to amend.  However, Plaintiff has failed to comply with
all of the procedural requirements for such relief.  
 
CRC 3.1324 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“a) Contents of motion
A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
(b) Supporting declaration
A separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff has failed to clearly state what allegations are
proposed to be added and/or deleted and where by page, paragraph and line
number.  CRC 3.1324(a)(2), (3).  As noted above, the motion does not explain the
renumbering of various paragraphs in the proposed Fourth Amended Complaint from
the Third Amended Complaint, etc.  
 
Additionally, while the declaration filed in support of
the motion seems sufficient to satisfy the requirements of CRC 3.1324(b) as to the
allegations regarding punitive damages against Walmart, it fails as to the
addition of the new 4th cause of action against either Walmart or
Clorox, especially since case law holds that California does not recognize a
distinct common law cause of action for gross negligence apart from negligence
and Plaintiff has already alleged a negligence claim against both Walmart and
Clorox in her 3rd cause of action. 
See Joshi (2022) 80 CA5th 814, 825; Jimenez (2015)
237 CA4th 546, 552 fn.3.  Further, the
declaration admits that the facts recently learned through discovery support
Plaintiff’s claim for gross negligence and claim for punitive damages against
Walmart, not Clorox.  (See Eagan
Decl. ¶5).  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.
 
The Court further notes that Plaintiff has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the declaration of Travis R.
Eagan in violation of CRC 3.1110(f)(4). 
The parties are warned that failure to comply with this rule in the
future may result in matters being continued so that papers can be re-filed in
compliance with the rule, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.  