  Case Number:  22SMCV01888    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  11 Kang (22SMCV01888)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Dismiss/Stay Re: Forum Non Conveniens
and Arbitration
 
Date:                           8/13/24
Time:                          10:30
am
Moving Party:           Apolo Ohno
Opposing Party:        Brian Kang, et al. (collectively
“Plaintiffs”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Ohno’s motion to dismiss/stay is denied in full without prejudice.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case concerns a foreign company named Hybrid Trade Limited
(“Hybrid”).  Plaintiffs allege that, “[i]n
2018, Defendants offered and sold digital tokens (the ‘Hybrid Token’), raising
approximately $50 million from investors based around the world, including
within the state of California and Los Angeles County.”  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), ¶ 1.)  “However,” Plaintiffs assert that “Defendants
have yet to satisfy any of their commitments to investors.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  They claim “Defendants squandered,
misappropriated, and purported to lose by theft all or nearly all of the
approximately $50 million raised through their offer and sale of Hybrid
Tokens.”  (Ibid.)
 
Former Olympian Apolo Ohno is one
of the Defendants.  He allegedly
co-founded Hybrid.  (See id. at ¶ 11.)  He
moves to dismiss/stay Plaintiff Brian Kang’s claims based on forum non
conveniens (he contends Malta is the proper forum), and he moves to arbitrate
the claims of Plaintiffs Prasad Hurra, David Kim, Artemio Verduzco, David Kwon,
and Young Jae Kwon (he contends their claims should be arbitrated in Hong
Kong).
 
DISCUSSION
 
Forum Non Conveniens
 
“Forum non
conveniens is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a court
to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of
action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly
tried elsewhere.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley
Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) 
“The moving party bears the burden of proving that California is an inconvenient forum.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Insurance Co. of North
America (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 604, 610 (“Ford”).)  “There must be evidence – not merely bald
assertions – to support the trial court’s determination.”  (Ibid.) 

 
“The quantum of evidence needed to
satisfy that burden may vary, however, depending on whether plaintiff is or is
not a California resident and whether defendant seeks a stay of the action or
dismissal.”  (Edmon & Karnow,
Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2024
Update) ¶ 3:408.5.)  “Where plaintiff is a California resident
. . . , there is a ‘strong presumption’ in favor of plaintiff's choice of
forum.”  (Id. at ¶ 3:408.6.)  By contrast, “[a] nonresident plaintiff's
choice of forum is entitled to ‘due deference’ under all circumstances, but not
a ‘strong presumption’ of appropriateness.” 
(Id. at ¶ 3:408.7.)[1]
 
Courts use a
two-step test to analyze forum non conveniens. 
The first step is to assess whether a suitable alternative forum
exists.  (See id.)  If one does, “the next
step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the interests of
the public in retaining the action for trial in California.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The first step requires the trial
court to “determine whether the alternate forum is a ‘suitable’ place for
trial.”  (Ford, supra, 35
Cal.App.4th at 610.)  This is non-discretionary
inquiry.  “An alternative forum is
‘suitable’ if it has jurisdiction and an action in that forum will not
be barred by the statute of limitations.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 3:420,
emphasis in original.)
 
Regarding
jurisdiction, a leading treatise advises that the moving party must show that all
defendants are subject to jurisdiction in the alternative forum, “not just the
‘primary’ defendants[.]”  (Id. at ¶ 3:421.1.)  The case law is more nuanced.  In American Cemwood Corp. v. American
Homen Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, where only five
defendants were named in the case, the Court of Appeal held that the moving
party needed to establish jurisdiction as to all defendants.  By contrast, in Hansen v. Ownes-Corning
Fiberglass Corp. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 753, where there were
more than 200 named defendants, the Court of Appeal held the opposite.[2]
 
For the second step, the trial
court must consider private-interest factors and public-interest factors.  The private-interest factors include “the
ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of
witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process for attendance of
unwilling witnesses.”  (Ford, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at 610.)  The public-interest factors include
“avoidance of overburdening local courts . . . , protecting the interests of
potential jurors so that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the
local community has little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the
alternate jurisdiction in the litigation.” 
(Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at 751.)
 
Ohno asserts that Jongwook Lee is
Kang’s agent and that Lee signed two Token Purchase Agreements to buy Hybrid
Tokens for Kang.  He contends Kang must
litigate in Malta because the forum-selection clauses in the agreements give
exclusive jurisdiction to Malta courts and require Maltese law to be
applied.  (See Motion, pp. 11-13; see
also Reply, pp. 3-8.)
 
The Court disagrees.  The Token Purchase Agreements are attached to
the declaration of Daniel Tyukody at exhibits 8 and 9.  (See Tyukody Decl., Exs. 8, 9.)  Tyukody is Ohno’s attorney.  He lacks personal knowledge to authenticate
the agreements and Lee’s alleged signatures. 
(See Opposition, pp. 3-4.)  He
also lacks personal knowledge to state whether Lee purchased Hybrid Tokens on
Kang’s behalf as Kang’s agent.  (See
ibid.)  The agreements do not state that
Lee purchased the tokens for Kang (see Tyukody Decl., Exs. 8, 9); nor do they
state that Kang is the “Ultimate Token Owner” – indeed, Kang is not mentioned
(ibid.); and Ohno fails to cite deposition testimony or discovery responses
that show an agent-type relationship. 
(See, e.g., Motion, pp. 8-11.)  At
best, Ohno presents hypotheses, opinions, and conjecture (see ibid.; see also
Reply, pp. 3-8) – he makes fraud and credibility assertions and effectively
asks the Court to assume agency – so he fails to meet his burden.
 
Ohno’s close-relationship,
third-party-beneficiary, and equitable-estoppel arguments do not change the
result.  (See Motion, pp. 12-13; see also
Reply, pp. 7-8.)  They suffer from the
same defects, namely, the inadmissible and inadequate evidence.
 
Moreover, the first step is
unsatisfied.  Ohno fails to demonstrate
that he and the other Defendants are subject to jurisdiction in Malta, and his
statute-of-limitations discussion is conclusory.  (See Motion, pp. 15-16; see also Reply, pp.
8-9; SAC, ¶¶ 11-13 [alleging that Ohno is an American citizen and resides in
Los Angeles, Rod Jao resides in Vancouver, Canada, and Eugenio Pugliese is an
American citizen].)  On this record, he
fails to show that Malta qualifies as a suitable forum.  
 
This portion of the motion is
denied without prejudice.[3]
 
Arbitration
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Ohno
contends Hurra, Kim, Verduzco,
Kwon, and Kwon must arbitrate in Hong Kong because their contract claims arise
from the White Papers.  The White Papers
are prospectuses that Hurra, Kim, Verduzco, Kwon, and Kwon allegedly reviewed
prior to purchasing Hybrid Tokens.  Ohno
claims the White Papers contain binding arbitration provisions.  (See Motion, pp. 18-20; see also Reply, pp.
10-11.)
 
Plaintiffs disagree.  They contend
there were three versions of the White Papers during the purchasing period, and
only one of the versions had an arbitration clause.  They claim Verduzco is the sole Plaintiff who
made a purchase when the version with an arbitration clause was operative, but
they assert that Verduzco did not rely on it and that Defendants replaced it
with a new version two days after the purchase. 
They contend the motion should be denied as to all Plaintiffs because: 
 
* none of them signed arbitration agreements; 
 
* Ohno fails to show which White Papers were accessed by which
Plaintiffs; 
 
* their claims do not depend on the version with the arbitration clause;
and 
 
* the arbitration clause constitutes an unenforceable browsewrap or
clickwrap agreement.  (See Opposition,
pp. 5-7; see also Chavez Decl., Exs. A-C.)
 
According to Plaintiffs, “the White Papers were located somewhere
on a now-defunct webpage that used to be hosted at www.hybridblock.io.”  (Opposition, pp. 6-7.)  “Most
courts now have identified at least four types of internet contract formation,
most easily defined by the way in which the user purportedly gives their assent
to be bound by the associated terms: browsewraps, clickwraps, scrollwraps, and
sign-in wraps.”  (Sellers v.
JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 463.)
 
“A ‘browsewrap’ agreement is one in which an internet
user accepts a website's terms of use merely by browsing the site.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “A ‘clickwrap’ agreement is one in which an internet user accepts a website’s terms
of use by clicking an ‘I agree’ or ‘I accept’ button, with a link to the
agreement readily available.”  (Ibid.,
emphasis in original.)  “A ‘scrollwrap’ agreement is like a ‘clickwrap,’ but the user is presented
with the entire agreement and must physically scroll to the bottom of it to
find the ‘I agree’ or ‘I accept’ button[.]” 
(Id. at 463-464, emphasis in original.) 
“‘Sign-in-wrap’ agreements are those in which a user
signs up to use an internet product or service, and the sign-up screen states
that acceptance of a separate agreement is required before the user can access
the service.”  (Id. at 464, emphasis in
original.)  “While a link to the separate
agreement is provided, users are not required to indicate that they have read
the agreement’s terms before signing up.” 
(Ibid.)  “Instead, ‘the website is
designed so that a user is notified of the existence and applicability of the site’s
“terms of use” [usually by a textual notice] when proceeding through the
website's sign-in or login process.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
California and “federal courts have reached consistent
conclusions when evaluating the enforceability of agreements at either end of
the spectrum, generally finding scrollwrap and clickwrap agreements to be
enforceable and browsewrap agreements to be unenforceable.”  (Sellers, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th
at 466; see also Weeks v. Interactive Life Forms, LLC (2024) 100
Cal.App.5th 1077 [analyzing a browsewrap agreement].)  In Sellers, the Court of Appeal
additionally found sign-in-wrap agreements unenforceable.  (See Sellers, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th
at 453.)
 
In view of these rules, the Court finds that the motion
should be denied without prejudice.  The
moving papers include two White Papers. 
(See Tyukody Decl., Exs. 1, 2.) 
Neither is authenticated, and only the first one has an arbitration
clause.  (See id. at Ex. 1.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a third White Paper,
which also is unauthenticated and lacks an arbitration provision.  (See Chavez Decl., Ex. A.)  There is no signed arbitration agreement by
any Plaintiff (see Motion, p. 18); Ohno fails to link each Plaintiff to a
particular White Paper, let alone the one with the arbitration section; and he
submitted zero evidence about the website where the White Papers purportedly
appeared.  On the current record, it
cannot be determined whether the website used browsewrap features or clickwrap
features (the evidence is insufficient to allow the Court to make the kinds of
determinations that the Sellers and Weeks courts made).  Ohno’s burden of proof is unmet for each of
these reasons.[4]
 
 
 
 
 


