 Case Number:  23SMCV05251    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ALLEN ASHKENAZI,   Plaintiff, v.  DREWELLA SELAN MCLENNON, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV05251     Hearing Date:  November 26, 2024      [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL    RESPONSES TO SPECIAL    INTERROGATORIES, SET THREE;    DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION, SET    THREE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY    AND ISSUE SANCTIONS    BACKGROUND  This case arises from a motor vehicle v. pedestrian accident on July 25, 2023.  Plaintiff Allen Ashkenazi was in a crosswalk with a green pedestrian light, when Defendant Drewella McLendon made a left turn crossing over the crosswalk and severely injuring Plaintiff.  At the time of the accident, McLendon was driving in the course and scope of her employment with co-defendants Stepping Stones Group (“Stepping Stones”) and Center for Behavioral Education and Social Therapies (“CBEST”).   On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff propounded his special interrogatories, set three (“SROGs”), and demand for production of documents, set 3 (“RFPs”) on each Defendant.  (Ex. 1 to Bohrer Decl.)  As such, responses were due no later than September 30, 2024.   On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff reminded Defendants of the overdue responses.  (Ex. 2 to Bohrer Decl.).  Defense counsel claimed to have overlooked the discovery requests.  Plaintiff’s counsel than re-sent the requests with the admonition: “Because I'm a nice guy, and understand that things inadvertently get missed, I will not rush into motionville (again) if vou can give me a reasonable and agreed-to time frame for responses.”  (Ex. 3 to Bohrer Decl.)  On October 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed four motions to compel, one for each discovery request to each Defendant.   Over a month after the responses were due and 15 days after the motions were filed, Defendants served their responses on November 1, 2024.  Accordingly, the motions to compel initial responses are moot, and the only issue remaining for this Court is whether sanctions should be awarded.   DISCUSSION Interrogatories Plaintiff requests sanctions based on Defendant’s failure to timely respond to Plaintiff’s SROGs.  Plaintiff relies on Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 which states: “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Although § 2030.290 imposes sanctions only when a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, and Defendant is not opposing the motion to compel (and indeed provided discovery responses to all the interrogatories), Local Rule 3.1348 allows the Court to impose sanctions “in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” Moreover, the Court may award sanctions for discovery abuses which include the failure to timely respond to discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§¿2023.010 subd. (d),¿2023.030).)  “Courts are authorized to exercise their discretion to award discovery sanctions for abuse of the discovery process.”  (NewLife Sciences, LLC v. Weinstock (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 676, fn. 10 (citing Code Civ. Proc., §§¿2023.010,¿2023.030).) Defendants argue that no sanctions should be imposed because they provided responses.  There is no explanation as to why the responses were untimely.  On these facts, the Court concludes that Defendant has not shown substantial justification for their untimely responses or that the circumstances would make the imposition of sanctions unjust.   In determining the amount of sanctions, the Court starts with the lodestar which is the reasonable hourly rate multiplied by the reasonable time spent.  Counsel represents his regular billing rate is $675.  He provides no further explanation on his experience or that his rate has been approved in other cases.  Accordingly, the Court uses a reasonable hourly rate of $250.  As to the amount of hours expended, counsel represents he spent three hours for the two motions to compel SROGs.  Counsel also attests he expects to spend one hour in reviewing the opposition and preparing the reply as to each motion, and he expects to spend three hours of travel time and one hour to attend the hearing.   Counsel acknowledges that he can only seek the travel and hearing time once as he will only be attending one hearing on all four motions he has filed.  Also, Plaintiff has only filed one omnibus opposition, and accordingly, the Court will award only one hour total for all time spent to review the opposition and prepare the consolidated reply.  Further, the Court concludes that the three hours of travel time is excessive and will only award one hour of travel time.  In sum, the Court will award 8.5 hours to prepare the two motions to compel SROGs (or $2,125) plus motion fees ($162.96) for a total of $2,287.96.  Document Demands Plaintiff requests sanctions based on Defendant’s failure to timely respond to Plaintiff’s RFPs.  Plaintiff relies on Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.300 which states: “(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Although § 2030.290 imposes sanctions only when a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, and Defendant is not opposing the motion to compel (and indeed provided discovery responses to all document demands), Local Rule 3.1348 allows the Court to impose sanctions “in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” Moreover, the Court may award sanctions for discovery abuses which include the failure to timely respond to discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§¿2023.010 subd. (d),¿2023.030).)  “Courts are authorized to exercise their discretion to award discovery sanctions for abuse of the discovery process.”  (NewLife Sciences, 197 Cal.App.4th at fn. 10 (citing Code Civ. Proc., §§¿2023.010 2023.030).) In determining the amount of sanctions, the Court uses the lodestar and a reasonable hourly rate of $250.  As to the amount of hours spent, counsel represents he spent three hours on the two motions to compel RFPs.  Counsel also attests he expects to spend one hour in reviewing the opposition and preparing the reply as to each motion, and he expects to spend three hours of travel time and one hour to attend the hearing.  Counsel acknowledges that he can only seek the travel and hearing time once as he will only be attending one hearing on the six motions to compel he has filed.  Also, Plaintiff has only filed one omnibus opposition to the four motions to compel, and accordingly, the Court will award only one hour total for all time spent to review the opposition and prepare the reply, which time is already accounted for in the sanctions awarded for the motion to compel SROGs.  In sum, the Court will award three hours to prepare the two motions to compel (or $750) plus motion fees ($162.96) for a total of $912.96. Issue and Evidentiary Sanctions In addition to monetary sanctions, Plaintiff also seeks issue and evidentiary sanctions.  Plaintiff argues that issue and evidence sanctions are warranted because to date, Plaintiff has filed 10 motions to compel responses, and Defendants’ repeated failures to timely respond has stymied Plaintiff’s efforts to seek discovery.  Plaintiff, however, does not specify what issues he seeks to be admitted or evidence he seeks to preclude.  Accordingly, the Court denies the request for issue and evidentiary sanctions.  CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motions to compel as moot and GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the request for sanctions.  The Court will award sanctions in the amount of $3,200.92 jointly and severally against Defendant and its counsel’s law firm Zelm, Erlich & Mack.     IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: November 26, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 