  Case Number:  23SMCV01996    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   MATTHEW WINTER,   Plaintiff, v.  ASAF GLAZER, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV01996     Hearing Date:  November 26, 2024      [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL    RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR    DOCUMENTS (SET THREE) AND    REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS       BACKGROUND  This action arises out of a car accident.  Plaintiff Matthew Winter’s car was struck by a car driven by Defendant Asaf Glazer (“Moving Defendant”), who was attempting to make a left turn from a private driveway.  Plaintiff alleges Glazer carelessly and negligent struck his car which was proceeding straight and had the right of way.   At the time of the accident, Plaintiff claims Glazer was performing job duties for the joint business venture between Defendants David Asulin, JRG Realtors, Inc. and Mr. Build Home Improvement Company.  Plaintiff alleges these Defendants are vicariously liable for the actions of Glazer.   On December 26, 2023, Defendant served Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set Two, seeking “all text messages you sent or received on YOUR cellular telephone on the day of the INCIDENT” (RFP No. 21) and “all phone calls you made or received on YOUR cellular telephone on the day of the INCIDENT” (RFP No. 22). (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 4.)  On April 24, 2024, the Parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) before this Court. (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 5.)  During the IDC, Plaintiff agreed to search for and produce evidence of phone calls and/or text messages within the thirty (30) minutes preceding the subject accident. (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 8.)  On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff provided further verified responses to RFP Nos. 21 and 22, indicating that Plaintiff does not possess any responsive documentation within his care and custody, and accordingly, no documents will be produced.  (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 10.)  Defendant filed three (3) motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to RFP Nos. 21 and 22.  (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 11.)  On September 24, 2024, this Court heard Defendant’s Motions to Compel on their merits, concluding that: “Moving Defendant’s declaration does not state specific facts supporting a good cause showing.  In any event, even assuming good cause was shown, Moving Defendant does not explain why Plaintiff’s responses that he has no documents to produce is evasive and not code-compliant.”  (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 13.)  Two days later, on September 26, 2024, Defendant served his Request for Documents (Set Three) asking Plaintiff to “[p]roduce YOUR cell phone records on October 21, 2022, between 8:16 AM to 9:16 AM.”  The incident occurred at 8:46 a.m., so the request seeks cell phone records 30 minutes before and 30 minutes after the incident.  Defendant claims Plaintiff did not respond to the request.  Plaintiff represents it served a response on October 31, 2024.             This hearing is on Defendant’s motion to compel a response to the document request.  Defendant initially argued that Plaintiff failed to respond at all.  In his reply, Defendant now argues, Plaintiff failed to timely respond, and therefore, has waived any objection and must produce the requested documents.     MEET AND CONFER Unlike a motion to compel a “further” response, a motion to compel an initial response does not have a meet and confer requirement.  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.)  Here, however, there was a response (Ex. 1 to Mihalic Decl.), and therefore Defendant was obligated to serve a meet and confer declaration.  By failing to do so, Defendant’s motion is procedurally defective.   LEGAL STANDARD Where there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300 (b).)  A party’s failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  (Id. at¿§ 2031.300 subd. (a).) There is no deadline for a motion to compel initial responses, and the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  (See generally¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.)  Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b), a separate statement is not required when no response has been provided. DISCUSSION Unless otherwise ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving papers and supporting papers shall be served and filed at least sixteen (16) court days before the hearing. Cal. Code Civ. Pro. § 1005(b).  However, if the notice is served by mail, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar days if the place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of California.  (Id.)  Defendant filed the instant Motion to Compel on November 1, 2024.  Sixteen (16) court days from November 1, 2024 is November 26, 2024.  Nevertheless, Defendant filed the instant motion with an original hearing date of November 21, 2024.  Accordingly, Defendant filed his moving papers and supporting papers thirteen (13) court days before the hearing, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure § 1005(b). To cure this defect, Defendant continued the hearing date on his motion to compel to November 26, 2024.  But Defendant did not continue the hearing date until November 12, 2024 – five (5) days after Plaintiff’s Opposition to this Motion was due.  (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 7.)  Thus, Defendant did not give Plaintiff the required 16 court days notice in advance of the new hearing date.   Moreover, as Plaintiff responded to the requests (albeit untimely), Defendant’s motion is one for further responses which in this Department, has additional procedural requirements than a motion to compel initial responses, including (1) the filing of a joint statement setting out the request, the response, and a short statement on each party’s position and (2) attending an informal discovery conference.  Defendant failed to comply with these additional requirements.   Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant for misuse of the discovery process, by repeatedly propounding the same discovery request for Plaintiff’s cell phone records.  The Court concludes that sanctions are warranted.   Section 2023.030 states that “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”    Misuses of the discovery process include making a discovery motion unsuccessfully and without substantial justification.  (Cal. Code Civ. Pro. § 2023.030.)  “Substantial justification” means clearly reasonable justification that is well grounded in both law and fact.” (Padron v. Watchtower Bible & Tract of New York, Inc. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1246, 1269.)   The misuse of discovery process also includes failing to meet and confer in good faith to resolve a discovery dispute when required by statute to do so.  (Michaely v. Michaely (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 802.) Here, Defendant has previously served substantially identical discovery requests to which Plaintiff has served verified, code-compliant responses.  Defendant moved to compel further responses to those previous, substantially identical discovery requests, which the Court denied for lack of good cause and failure to show Plaintiff’s verified responses were not code-compliant.  The next day, Defendant served substantially identical discovery requests with slightly different wording.  Defendant then filed a motion to compel without meeting and conferring and further indicating that Plaintiff had not responded to Defendant’s discovery requests, when Plaintiff in fact had done so.  On these facts, the Court finds Defendant cannot demonstrate substantial justification for his actions.   In determining the appropriate amount of¿sanctions, the Court¿starts¿with the¿lodestar¿which is the reasonable hourly rate multiplied by the reasonable hours spent.¿(PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1096; see also¿Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)  Plaintiff’s counsel has been practicing law for 3 years, and he does not charge an hourly rate to his clients, but contends the value of his services is $300 per hour.  (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 20.)  Counsel represents that a higher hourly rate of $325 was approved as reasonable in the United States District Courts for the Southern District of Florida and the Eastern District of New York.  (Mihalic Decl. ¶ 21.)  On these facts, the Court concludes counsel’s hourly rate of $300 is reasonable. Plaintiff seeks sanctions for 12.75 hours of work.  But only 9.25 of these hours relate to the instant motion.  The remainder relate to another motion (a motion for protective order) and meet and confer attempts related to prior discovery requests.  The Court will only award fees associated with this motion to compel.  Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions of $2,775.  CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel and for sanctions.  The Court awards sanctions of $2,775 in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant and his counsel, jointly and severally.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: November 26, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 