 Case Number:  21STCV26682    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
This motion seeks to
exclude improper statements during voir dire and improper arguments, including
questions about Covid, cancer, and corporations, expressing sympathy,
mentioning background exposure, referencing the government’s use of asbestos,
and mentioning nature or God.
            As an
initial matter, this is several motions combined into one.
            (a)  Questions about Covid, cancer and
corporations:  The trial court determines
the scope of voir dire and will give the attorneys the rules for that trial
court.  If any attorney asks
inappropriate questions during voir dire, the other side should object at that
time.  A motion in limine is not the
proper place to define the questions that can and cannot be asked in voir
dire.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
            (b)  Sympathy: 
Plaintiffs cite no law prohibiting a defense counsel from briefly
expressing sympathy for a plaintiff. 
That is a common occurrence. 
Statements of attorneys are not evidence, as the court will instruct the
jury.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
            (c)  Background exposure:  An expert may be able to establish a
foundation for the existence and relevance of background asbestos.  Also, pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO,
motions to exclude evidence as speculative or unsubstantiated are deemed made
and denied.  Plaintiffs did not show good
cause to depart from that order.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
            (d)  Government’s use of asbestos:  This is too vague.  Scientific articles and studies relied upon
by experts could mention this use of asbestos, and an expert might be able to
establish a basis for relying on and describing such studies.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
            (e)  God or Mother Nature:  The motion seeks to exclude any statements
that God or Mother Nature made asbestos. 
This motion is too vague. 
Scientific articles and studies relied upon by experts could mention
that asbestos is a naturally occurring mineral, and an expert might be able to
establish a basis for relying on and describing such studies.  Further, there might be evidence that
asbestos comes from mines, making it part of nature.  The fact that it is naturally occurring is
not prejudicial.  If a party starts
talking about God at trial, the opposing party can object at that time.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
            Plaintiffs’
MIL No. 2
Plaintiff moves to
exclude evidence that other defendants were sued but are not at trial and the
contents of the complaint because it is not a judicial admission.
Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, a motion to modify the caption to refer only to defendants remaining
in the case is deemed made and granted but not to affect any allocation of
fault under Proposition 51.  To the extent
the motion seeks to exclude any evidence of other defendants not at trial, the
motion is denied as too vague.  For
example, a deposition testimony of a witness of another defendant may be
admissible, or evidence may be relevant for Proposition 51 purposes.
“ ‘The admission of fact
in a pleading is a “judicial admission.” ’ 
[Citation.]  A judicial admission
in a pleading is not merely evidence of a fact; it is a conclusive concession
of the truth of the matter. 
[Citation.]  ‘Well pleaded
allegations in the complaint are binding on the plaintiff at trial.’  [Citation.] 
‘The trial court may not ignore a judicial admission in a pleading, but
must conclusively deem it true as against the pleader.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 187.)  Based on this case law, the complaint may
contain judicial admissions of fact.  The
court therefore cannot conclude at this time that the complaint is
inadmissible.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude arguments about the “substantial factor” test.  This motion is deemed made and denied
pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO. 
Plaintiffs did not show good cause to depart from that order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
Defendant Avon Products,
Inc. moves to exclude evidence about other diseases caused by talc, such as
ovarian cancer.  This case is not about
ovarian cancer.  This is not a case where
the plaintiff alleges failure to warn that the product could cause ovarian
cancer.  The evidence would be more
prejudicial than probative, would confuse the jury, and would consume an undue
amount of time in a trial that is already too long.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Avon moves to exclude an
article titled “Asbestos in Commercial Talcum Powder as a Cause of Mesothelioma
in Women” by Gordon, Millette, and Fitzgerald as hearsay, based on improper
data, and unreliable.  
An expert may rely on
hearsay and tell the jury in general terms that he or she did so.  If an expert testifying in this case
establishes that this article is the type of background information relied upon
by experts in the field, the evidence may be relevant and admissible even if
hearsay.  (People v. Veamatahau
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 16, 22.)  Defendant did
not show that the article is based on data lacking foundation or an unreliable
method.  Defendant can cross-examine any
expert who relies on this article about these points.
            The
motion is granted in part as to the contents of the article unless an expert
establishes a basis for its admissibility. 
Otherwise the motion denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
Avon moves to exclude
evidence of industrial talc mines and products as not relevant because this
case involves cosmetic talc.  This motion
is too vague.  The motion does not identify
any specific evidence to exclude.  The
court cannot categorically say that evidence mentioning industrial talc is
completely irrelevant.  For example, an
expert could rely on studies about talc that mention multiple kinds of talc.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
Avon moves to exclude all
references to internal documents from Johnson & Johnson, Imerys, and Cyprus
as hearsay and not relevant.  This motion
is too vague because it does not identify the specific evidence to be
excluded.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 5
Avon moves to exclude all
reference to other lawsuits involving it and its related entities or illness
from use of talc.  This motion is too
vague.  For example, it is common in asbestos
cases to use deposition testimony from prior cases.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the
amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,
the motion is deemed made and granted pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part subject to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 6
Defendant Pneumo Abex LLC
seeks to exclude evidence from the Saranac experiments.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and granted.  Plaintiffs did
not show good cause to depart from that order. 
The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 6
Avon moves to exclude
evidence about foreign governmental investigations and proceedings into talcum
powder as irrelevant, prejudicial, confusing and time-consuming.  Plaintiffs did not show that any defendant
was aware of a foreign investigation or proceeding into talcum powder such that
this information is relevant to notice, or that the foreign investigation or
proceeding gave Defendant notice of something it was not previously aware of.  Allowing that evidence will consume an undue
amount of trial time exploring the reasons for the foreign investigations.  The evidence would have little probative
value because foreign investigations do not result in regulations or law in the
United States and would be confusing to the jury.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
Defendant Avon moves to
exclude all references to the IWGACP formed in 2018 and its 2020-2022
recommendations and papers as irrelevant, misleading, and hearsay.  If an expert establishes that this is the
type of background information relied upon by experts, the evidence may be
relevant and admissible even if hearsay. 
Defendants can then cross-examine the expert on the fact that the work
is only preliminary.  The motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
Avon moves to exclude
evidence of products not at issue.  This
motion is too vague.  The motion does not
identify specific evidence to exclude. 
The court cannot categorically say that evidence about other products is
completely irrelevant.  For example, an
expert could rely on studies about talc that mention multiple other products
containing talc, or the evidence could be relevant for Proposition 51 purposes.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
Defendant Morse Tec moves
to exclude evidence of a proposed 1971 Illinois ban that never went into effect
as hearsay and irrelevant.  The evidence
may go to notice or knowledge.  Defendant
can then cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed ban was
never effective.  The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
Morse Tec moves to
exclude reference to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect
because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not
supported by sufficient evidence.  This
evidence may go to notice or knowledge. 
Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed
ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of
evidence.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
No motion was filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
Defendants move to
bifurcate punitive damages.  The motion
is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 13
Defendant Valley Brake
Supply moves to exclude evidence that as a supplier, it had a duty to test or
investigate products that it did not make. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and denied
so long as the case includes an operative negligence cause of action.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart
from this order.  Therefore, the motion
is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.