 Case Number:  23STCV09386    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TYLER BROWN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
REPLIGEN CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV09386
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 7, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff Tyler Brown (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
compelling Defendant Repligen Corporation (“Repligen”) to provide further
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production (“RFP”), Set One, Nos. 15, 16,
23, 57, 69, 73, 74, 75, and 76. Plaintiff also requests as a discovery sanction
attorney’s fees in the total amount of $6,120.00 in connection with the motion
to compel.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion with respect to Requests
Number 57 and 69.  The remainder of the
motion to compel in the original motion is moot as Repligen responded after the
filing of this motion.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  
 
Background
 
This is an employment action. Plaintiff filed this action
against his former employer, Repligen, as well as several coworkers, on April
27, 2023, raising claims for (1) discrimination on the basis of disability; (2)
failure to engage in the interactive process; (3) failure to provide reasonable
accommodation; (4) discrimination on the basis of veteran status; (5)
harassment; (6) retaliation; (7) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation; (8) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; and
(9) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”). 
 
On June 6, 2023, Plaintiff served Repligen with Requests for
Production, Set One, which included the discovery items at issue here. A long
meet and confer process ensued, wherein Plaintiff’s counsel granted Defendant a
series of extensions up to November 1, 2023. Repligen served responses on
November 1, 2023, but did not provide verification or document production until
December 1, 2023. 
 
The parties then met and conferred over the adequacy of
Repligen’s responses, and Plaintiff granted Repligen several extensions on time
to provide supplemental responses, with the deadline ending up on March 15,
2024. Repligen supplemented on that date. Repligen’s supplemental responses
changed from solely objections for the discovery at issue to statements that
Repligen would comply, but Plaintiff contends that Repligen did not provide
documents pursuant to those representations.
 
Plaintiff contacted Repligen on March 26, 2024, stating that
Repligen’s supplemental responses were missing documents and did not properly
identify which documents responded to which requests. Repligen’s counsel
responded on March 27, 2024, stating that they had provided Plaintiff with all
responsive documents and were not withholding anything. Repligen’s counsel
stated that counsel was about to depart for a trip out of town, but would
provide a more substantive response after returning on April 4, 2024.
 
Plaintiff states that 
he filed this motion April 3, 2024, though the Court’s records show it
to have been file-stamped April 10, 2024.  Repligen served additional document production
on Plaintiff on April 19, 2024. Repligen filed an opposition on April 22, 2024
and Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Requests for Production
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
 
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
 
            The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
Discussion
 
            In
its reply brief, Plaintiff raises two remaining substantive issues:  Requests Nos. 57 and 69.  The Court rules as follows.
 
RFP No. 57: Repligen shall produce all responsive
documents, including the entirety of any insurance policies that may cover it
in this action.  Repligen shall make the
production within 30 days.  
 
RFP No. 69: According to Plaintiff’s reply, no
written response to RFP 69 was included Repligen’s supplemental responses.  Repligen shall serve a code-compliant
response to this request within 30 days. 

 
Sanctions
 
            The
Court denies sanctions because it finds that the opposition was substantially
justified and that the circumstances here make an award of sanctions
inappropriate.  The timeline appears to
show Repligen working to comply with Plaintiff’s request and Plaintiff filing
this motion while the efforts were ongoing. 
Moreover, the scope of the Court’s grant of relief to Plaintiff is
narrow and could have been amicably resolved by the parties with some
additional effort.