  Case Number:  19STCV38161    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Steven
  Douglas Green, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV38161




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling
 




 
Los Angeles
  Dodgers, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 21, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings;
Motion to Bifurcate
Moving Party: Defendants Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, Christian Mejia, and Winnie Landrum
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Steven Douglas Green and
Nicholas Ray Green
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
PLEADINGS IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS
GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs Steven
Douglas Green and Nicholas Ray Green filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendants Los Angeles Dodgers LLC,
Christian Mejia, and Winnie Landrum, asserting causes of action for negligence;
premises liability; assault; battery; false imprisonment; negligent hiring,
retention, and supervision; and violation of the Bane Act. 
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants wrongfully and forcefully detained,
searched, and ejected Plaintiffs from a baseball game. Plaintiffs also allege
Defendants wrongfully caused LAPD to arrest and detain them.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants' request for judicial notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth of their
contents.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
A motion for judgment on the pleadings is an appropriate means of
obtaining an adjudication of the rights of the parties in a declaratory relief
action if those rights can be determined as a matter of law from the face of
the pleading attacked, together with those matters of which the court may
properly take judicial notice. (Silver v. Beverly Hills Nat. Bank (1967)
253 Cal.App.2d 1000, 1005 [61 Cal.Rptr. 751].) A plaintiff's motion for
judgment on the pleadings is analogous to a plaintiff's demurrer to an answer
and is evaluated by the same standards. (See Hardy v. Admiral Oil Co. (1961)
56 Cal.2d 836, 840-842 [16 Cal.Rptr. 894, 366 P.2d 310]; 4 Witkin, Cal.
Procedure (2d ed. 1971) Proceedings Without Trial, § 165, pp. 2819-2820.) The
motion should be denied if the defendant's pleadings raise a material issue or
set up affirmative matter constituting a defense; for purposes of ruling on the
motion, the trial court must treat all of the defendant's allegations as
being true. (MacIsaac v. Pozzo (1945) 26 Cal.2d 809, 813 [161 P.2d
449].)
 
(Allstate Ins. Co. v. Kim W.
(1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 326, 330–331.)
 
Defendants move as to the seventh cause
of action for violation of the Bane Act. A claim for violation of the Bane Act
can be brought by an individual against a private person, where that person
interferes with the Plaintiff’s legal rights by threat, intimidation, or
coercion. (Civ. Code § 52.1(a), (b).) To allege a cause of action under Civil
Code § 52.1, the plaintiff must allege that “the defendant interfered with or
attempted to interfere with the plaintiff’s legal right by threatening or
committing violent acts.” (Doe v. State (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 832, 842.)
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiffs
cannot state claims for violation of the Bane Act because Defendants did not
interfere with any of Plaintiffs’ legal rights. Defendants argue that the
action is merely a private dispute between private citizens. As stated,
Plaintiffs allege Defendants wrongfully and violently detained Plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs allege Defendants did this under the supervision of officers of the
Los Angeles Police Department. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants conducted
illegal searches of Plaintiffs and asked LAPD to arrest Plaintiffs, which LAPD
did. This is sufficient to allege that Defendants interfered with Plaintiffs’
legal rights through threat and violence.
 
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings is DENIED.
 
B. Motion to Bifurcate
 
Civil Code § 3295(d) provides, “[t]he
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant's profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible
only as to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and
to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.”


Defendants move to bifurcate the
liability/compensatory damages phase of trial and any punitive damages phase of
trial and preclude any evidence of financial condition prior to the punitive
damages phase. Plaintiffs do not oppose. Under Civil Code § 3295(d), the Court
has no discretion to deny this motion. 
 
Defendants’ motion to bifurcate is
GRANTED. Phase 1 will include liability, compensatory damages, and entitlement
to punitive damages. Phase 2 will address amount of punitive damages.
 


 