 Case Number:  19VECV01817    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  W FARZIN MALY, ET AL. V. BRETT C HARRISON, ET AL.
 
MOTION OF DEFENDANTS XQB MANAGEMENT, INC., TRYSTON HARRISON, AND
DAVID THOMAS LLLOYD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ATLERNATIVE, SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION OF THE ISSUES
 
Date of Hearing:        June
3, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       September 16, 2024  
Department:              W                                                        Case No:         19VECV01817
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants XQB
Management, Inc., Tryston Harrison and David Thomas Lloyd
Responding
Party:     Plaintiffs Farzin Maly and
Bahareh Mohammadzadeh Moghaddam 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
On December 20, 2019, Plaintiffs Farzin Maly and Bahareh
Mohammadzadeh Moghaddam filed a complaint against Defendants Brett C. Harrison
aka Brett Christian Harrison; BCH Enterprises, LLC; Tryston Harrison; Re/Max
Olson & Associates; David Thomas Lloyd; Center Street Lending Fund IV Spe,
LLC; Bagnard Company, LLC; CT Lien Solutions; Mario Simone; The Turoci Firm,
Inc.; BM Stewardship Inv., LLC; Prominence Capital Partners, LLC, and Charles
Ockwell. 
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint
alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Specific Performance;
(3) Fraud; (4) Conversion; (5) Violation of Penal Code section 496; (6) Quiet
Title; (7) Breach of Fiduciary Duties; and (8) Negligence. Plaintiff also named
XQB Management, Inc. and Twisted River Capital, LLC as additional defendants. 
 
On April 30, 2021, XQB Management, Inc., Tryston Harrison, and
David Thomas Lloyd filed a cross-complaint against BCH Enterprises, LLC and
Brett C. Harrison asserting causes of action for indemnification, apportionment
of fault, and declaratory relief.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants XQB Management, Inc., Tryston Harrison and David Thomas
Lloyd’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication of the Issues is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In support of their motion for summary
judgment, Defendants XQB Management, Inc., Tryston Harrison and David Thomas Lloyd
request this court take judicial notice of several documents including
statements of information filed with the California Secretary of State,
Articles of Organizations and certificate of amendment to Articles of
Organizations filed with the California Secretary of State, and grant deeds. (See
Exhs. 17 – 26.) 
 
The court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial notice. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff requests this court take judicial notice
of the license records of David Thomas Lloyd, Brett Christian Harrison, and
Tryston Alexander Harrison. (Exh. SS) The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for
judicial notice. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
In reply, Defendants XQB
Management, Inc., Tryston Harrison and David Thomas Lloyd submit objections to
the evidence of Plaintiffs Maly and Moghadam. 
 
The court overrules objections nos. 1 – 7 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendants XQB Management, Inc., Tryston Harrison and David Thomas
Lloyd (“Re/Max Defendants”) move the court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, for an order granting summary judgment over the entire action as
it pertains to these ReMax Defendants, or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of issues on the third, fourth, fifth, seventh, and eighth causes
of action.  At the very end of their
opposition, plaintiffs request a continuance so Plaintiffs’ new counsel can
depose Defendant Lloyd regarding various communications. However, they do not
provide the request in their declaration as required. (CCP §473c(h).)  As a result, the court denies this non-code
compliant request.   
 
Plaintiffs’ Knowledge of the Liens
 
Re/Max Defendants first move for summary
judgment on the grounds Plaintiffs’ actual knowledge of the liens on the
property prevents Plaintiffs from alleging the Re/Max Defendants are liable to
them. 
 
Re/Max Defendants argue on March 18,
2019, Plaintiffs received and signed a document (hereinafter the “Acknowledgment”)
acknowledging that they had received the preliminary title report. (UMF 15.) The
Acknowledgment was a one-page letter from “Jodi Hunter/escrow officer” and
addressed to Plaintiff Maly, which read “The undersigned hereby acknowledges
receipt of the following: Preliminary
title report….” (UMF 18.) Within the title report, on pages 6 and 7, the
preliminary title report indicated that there were three Deeds of Trust
recorded on the Property totaling $2,412,795.00. (UMF ¶ 25.) As a result,
Re/Max Defendants argue estoppel prevents Plaintiffs from now claiming that
they did not receive the Preliminary Report, because their signature on the
Acknowledgment is valid confirmation of the kind regularly upheld by the courts.
Moreover, there are no circumstances that could indicate that the
Acknowledgment could have been fraudulent as it went through the parties’
escrow agent and Plaintiffs themselves had the ability to read the
Acknowledgment and Preliminary Report, and to obtain expert assistance with it
if they had asked. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue their
knowledge of the Title Report does not defeat Re/Max Defendants’ duty. Plaintiffs
cite to Holmes v. Summer (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1510 to support this
contention. In Holmes, citing Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Ass'n., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, held “even
when a buyer is on constructive notice of matters of record, that does not
necessarily mean a cause of action in tort arising out of failure to disclose
will not lie…. The fact that the purchasers were on
constructive notice of the recorded affordable housing restrictions did not
preclude an action for damages against the seller arising out of an alleged
breach of the duty to disclose.” (Holmes v. Summer (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1521.) Plaintiffs further dispute that they had actual
knowledge of the title report and instead claim they only signed the
acknowledgement of the title report because of Lloyd’s insistence, creating a
factual dispute. Specifically, Plaintiffs contend at no time up to and
including March 18, 2019 was the preliminary title report provided to
Plaintiffs; only the approval form was provided. (Maly Decl. ¶9.) 
 
The court finds Holmes does not
support the facts of this case. Holmes did not stand for the proposition
that when a buyer has constructive notice regarding matters of public record,
the seller’s broker still has a duty to inform Plaintiffs of the liens and/or
encumbrances preventing the purchase. Rather, the court in Holmes
confirmed that the duty to disclose exists only when
a buyer cannot reasonably ascertain material defects on its own: “ ‘where the
seller knows of facts materially affecting the value or desirability of the
property which are known or accessible only to him and also knows that such
facts are not known to, or within the reach of the diligent attention and
observation of the buyer, the seller is under a duty to disclose them to the
buyer.’ “ (Holmes, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1518–1519, quoting Lingsch
v. Savage (1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 729, 735–736.) 
 
However, the court finds a triable issue
of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs were actually given the preliminary
title report. Plaintiff Maly, under penalty of perjury, states “at no time up
to and including March 18, 2019 was the preliminary title report provided to
buyers; only the approval form was provided.” (Maly Decl. ¶9.) 
 
Re/Max Defendants’ Knowledge of the
Liens
 
Re/Max Defendants next argue they had no
knowledge of the seller’s financial condition or intention to perform on the
purchase agreement and even if they did, they were prohibited from disclosing
it. Re/Max Defendants contend there is no evidence that the Re/Max Defendants
handled the Preliminary Report or even saw it and in any event, the Re/Max
Defendants would have no need to see the Preliminary Report because the
Purchase Agreement explicitly stated that Re/Max “[s]hall not be responsible
for inspecting public records or permits concerning the title” to the Property.
(Purchase Agreement at ¶ 18.B (vi); UMF ¶ 10.) Again, even if they did, California
law prohibited the Re/Max Defendants from disclosing any “confidential
information” regarding the “Seller’s financial position, motivations,
bargaining position, or other personal information….” (Dual Agency Disclosure,
Ex. 2, quoting Civ. Code § 2079.16.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
Re/Max Defendants do owe a duty to Plaintiffs, which includes the duty to learn
of and disclose all material affecting the value or desirability of the
property, both as the salesperson and the employing broker. (Civ. Code
§2079.16.) Moreover, despite the Re/Max Defendants’ contention 2079.16
prohibits them from disclosing “confidential information”, the prohibition does
not include when the information materially affects the value or desirability
of that property.  
 
Civil Code section 2079.16 provides that
brokers are not obligated to reveal confidential information unrelated to their
Civil Code section 2079.16 affirmative duties, which includes explicitly a “duty
to disclose all facts known to the agent materially affecting the value or
desirability of the property that are not known to, or within the diligent
attention and observation of, the parties.” (Civ. Code §2079.16(c).) While the
court agrees that the confidentiality provisions of section 2079.16 would not
have prevented the brokers from disclosing such information as it would have
certainly materially affected the value or desirability of the property, Plaintiffs
have not demonstrated the Re/Max Defendants’ actual knowledge of the liens
and/or encumbrances. Plaintiffs present evidence that Lloyd signed the email as
part of Harrison Luxury Group and was part of Brett’s entities. None of this
establishes Re/Max Defendants were aware of what was on the preliminary title
report. As a result, even if Plaintiffs were not provided the preliminary title
report, they have not presented evidence Re/Max Defendants breached the duty to
disclose. The expert declaration of Gregory M. Libby discusses the duty to
investigate but Civil Code section 2079.3 explicitly provides the scope of
inspection does not include public records or permits concerning title or use
of the property. 
 
Fraud
 
Re/Max Defendants move for summary
judgment of the third cause of action for fraud on the grounds the Re/Max
Defendants did not make any promises in the purchase agreement, there was no
misrepresentation of the “ability” of the seller to perform, and Re/Max
Defendants did not conceal any information from Plaintiffs. 
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
 
Re/Max Defendants point to the Purchase
Agreement, noting there is no term in which any of the Re/Max Defendants
promised that the Seller would convey title to the property. In fact, Re/Max
Defendants expressly disavowed any duty to somehow require the Seller’s
performance, and Plaintiffs agreed. (COE, Exh. 3, Re/Max Addendum, ¶32.) As
such, there was no false promise to Plaintiffs that the Re/Max Defendants would
convey and deliver to Plaintiffs’ title to the property pursuant to the terms
set forth in the Purchase Agreement. Similarly, the Re/Max Defendants never
made any kind of representation of the “ability” of the Seller to convey title.
Re/Max again points to the Purchase Agreement noting there is no such statement
there or any other document. Lastly, Re/Max Defendants argue there is no
evidence they hid from Plaintiffs Defendants’ financial situation or that
Defendants lacked the capability of actually conveying title to the subject
property. Re/Max Defendants point to the Dual Agency Disclosure which posits, “In
representing both Seller and Buyer, a dual agent may not, without the express
permission of the respective party, disclose to the other party confidential
information, 'including, but not limited to, facts relating to either the
Buyer's or Seller's financial position, motivations, bargaining position, or
other personal information that may impact price, including the Seller's
willingness to accept a price less than the listing price or the Buyer's
willingness to pay a price greater than the price offered.” (COE, Exh. 2.) Moreover,
Re/Max Defendants did not have a duty to review the preliminary report. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs only refer to
their complaint. Plaintiffs have not presented any evidence Re/Max Defendants
falsely promised to Plaintiffs that Defendants would convey and deliver to
Plaintiffs title to the property, fraudulently misrepresented to Plaintiffs the
ability of Defendants to actually convey title to the property, or hid and
obscured from Plaintiffs the fact that senior liens on the property were in
default and each of them lacked the capability of actually conveying title to
the property. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for fraud is GRANTED. 
 
Conversion
 
Re/Max Defendants move for summary
judgment of the fourth cause of action for conversion on the grounds the
release of the money from escrow was expressly authorized, in writing, by the
Plaintiffs alone to the Seller. 
 
“ ‘…The basic elements of the tort [of
conversion] are (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of
personal property; (2) the defendant's disposition of the property in a manner
that is inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.
[Citation.]’ (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 119….)” (Regent All. Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.
App. 4th 1177, 1181.) 
 
Re/Max Defendants contend the core of
Plaintiffs’ conversion claim is that Plaintiffs’ money “should not have been
released” from escrow because Defendants “knew or had reason to know that
[Seller] could not transfer title to Plaintiffs.” However, the Re/Max
Defendants neither received the money described by Plaintiffs in the TAC nor
aided or abetted in such receipt by others. (UMF 44-45.) Moreover, the release
of the money from escrow was expressly authorized, in writing, by the
Plaintiffs alone to the Seller. (UMF 46.) Moreover, the Re/Max Defendants never
actually exercised any kind of control over the indicated money. (UMF ¶ 48.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
Brokers need not have obtained the funds. Instead, the Brokers acted for Seller
in obtaining the transfers and told Plaintiffs to do the transfers. Further,
they aided and abetted Defendants in Defendants taking of the funds.
 
The court agrees Plaintiffs has not
presented evidence over direct disposition over the property. “Generally,
‘California has adopted the common law rule for subjecting a defendant to
liability for aiding and abetting a tort. “Liability may . . . be imposed on
one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a)
knows the other’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial
assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial
assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own
conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third
person.” [Citations.].’”  (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 727, 744.) However, Plaintiffs have not presented evidence
Re/Max Defendants aided and abetted Defendants in coordinating, authorizing,
and requesting each of the monetary releases from escrow of monies that should
not have been released. 
 
Accordingly, Re/Max Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for conversion is
GRANTED. 
 
Violation of Penal Code section 496
 
Re/Max Defendants move for summary
adjudication of the fifth cause of action for violation of Penal Code section
496 on the grounds the funds were not stolen. 
 
“[T]he elements required to show a
violation of section 496(a) are ... that (i) property was stolen or obtained in
a manner constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the property was so stolen
or obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had possession of the stolen
property.  (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
Section 496 liability may lie relating to “property that has been ’stolen’ or
‘that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion.’ 
([Pen. Code] § 496(a), italics added.)” (Ibid.) A criminal conviction is
not a requirement – but theft or extortion, as defined in the Penal Code, must
be pleaded or proven. (See Bell v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041,
1048.) Any person who has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a)
or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if
any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.
(Pen. Code §496(c).) 
 
Re/Max Defendants argue given that the
funds were not stolen when they were in escrow’s possession, the transfer of the
funds do not fall under the gambit of section 496 when they were released by
escrow to the seller. Additionally, the text of the escrow amendments
themselves make it clear that the funds were to be released to the seller and
not the Re/Max Defendants.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue treble
damages under section 496(c) applies to business disputes where plaintiff
alleges theft, or where a defendant aids in concealing or withholding funds
from plaintiff. (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13
Cal.5th 333.) As a result, Plaintiffs contend they will show that the Brokers
aided in withholding funds from Plaintiffs. 
 
As noted above, Plaintiffs have not
presented evidence Re/Max Defendants had possession of the funds released or
aided and abetted the defendants. Accordingly, Re/Max Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for conversion is
GRANTED. 
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty / Negligence 
 
Re/Max Defendants move for summary
adjudication of the seventh and eighth causes of action for breach of fiduciary
duty and negligence on the grounds Re/Max Defendants did not owe Plaintiffs a
duty, as a fiduciary or otherwise, to do any of the things alleged in the TAC. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of
the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach.”
(Gutierrez v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th 925, 932.) To plead a cause of
action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal duty owed to plaintiffs to
use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292,
318.)
 
Re/Max Defendants argue as a matter of law,
the Re/Max Defendants did not owe Plaintiffs a duty to (1) inspect the
Preliminary Report; (2) advise Plaintiffs on what, if anything, to do in
response to the Preliminary Report; or (3) give legal advice to Plaintiffs,
because the parties had already expressly agreed otherwise in the Purchase
Agreement. Because the parties have expressly agreed that the Re/Max Defendants
do not have the duty to review title reports or other public documents, nor to
guarantee the Seller’s performance under the Purchase Agreement, they cannot be
liable for breach of fiduciary duty or negligence. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
brokers, as dual agents, owe a fiduciary duty to Buyer-Plaintiffs, which is the
same obligation of undivided service and loyalty, owed by trustees to their
beneficiaries. The duty includes the duty to learn of
and disclose all material affecting the value or desirability of the property,
both as the salesperson and the employing broker. As noted above, Plaintiffs
have not presented a duty owed to investigate or that Defendants breached their
duty to disclose material facts. 
 
Accordingly, Re/Max Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication as to the seventh and eighth causes of action for
breach of fiduciary duty and negligence is GRANTED.
 
Conspiracy / Aiding and Abetting 
 
Re/Max Defendants move for summary
adjudication of Plaintiffs’ allegations of “conspiracy” and “aiding and
abetting”. 
 
“The elements of a civil conspiracy are
the formation and operation of the conspiracy and damage resulting to plaintiff
from an act done in furtherance of the common design.” (Stueve Bros. Farms,
LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 323.) “‘Liability may .
. . be imposed on one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort
if the person (a) knows the other’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and
gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b)
gives substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result
and the person’s own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of
duty to the third person.’”  (Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1318, 1325-26 (quoting Saunders v. Superior Court (1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 832, 846; see also Schulz v. Neovi Data Corp. (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 86, 93.) 
 
Re/Max Defendants argue there is no
evidence that the Seller and the Re/Max Defendants conspired to commit any of
the breach of contract or the tortious acts alleged in the TAC nor is there
evidence of any intentional participation with knowledge of the object to be
attained. The court agrees. There is no underlying tort nor are there facts of
Re/Max Defendants knowingly and willingly entered into a common scheme. 
 
Alter Ego 
 
Re/Max Defendants lastly seek summary
judgment on the grounds there is no evidence of alter ego. This argument is
moot. Moreover, Plaintiffs have not presented evidence of alter ego
establishing a triable issue of material fact. 
 
 