  Case Number:  19VECV01803    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  W Osvaldo
Martignoni, et al., v. Arash Majlessi, et al.,
 
Motion for leave to file amended
complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        June 3, 2024                          Trial
Date:       N/A
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        19VECV01803
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni
Responding Party:     Defendant
Bank of Hope  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contractual fraud action. On
December 19, 2019 Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni
(“Plaintiffs”) filed this action. Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint on
February 9, 2022 against Defendants Arash Majlessi, Majlessi Corporation,
Gloria Center LLC, Kamran Hekmat, United Escrow Co., John C. Lee, and Ian Bhak
for (1) rescission, (2) fraud, (3) breach of contract, (4) rescission, (5)
breach of duty and gross negligence, (6) breach of duty and gross negligence,
(7) fraud, and (8) declaratory relief.  
 
On November 18, 2022, the court
sustained, without leave to amend, Defendants Kamran Hekmat and Gloria Center LLC’s
(“Hekmat Defendants”) demurrer to the fourth and seventh causes of action and
dismissed the Hekmat Defendants with prejudice.
 
On December 7, 2022, Plaintiffs filed
their operative Fifth Amended Complaint against Arash Majlessi, Majlessi
Corporation, United Escrow Co. Harry Hwang, John C. Lee and Ian Bhak. 
 
On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
Arash Majlessi, Majlessi Corporation, Harry Hwang, and Ian Bhak. On March 1,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed Gloria Center, LLC. Plaintiff named Bank of Hope as
Doe 1. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni’s Motion for Leave
to file Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs Osvaldo Martignoni and Claudia Martignoni move the court for
an order allowing Plaintiffs to file an amended complaint to add a cause of
action for negligence against Bank of Hope. 
 
Motions for leave to amend the pleadings
are directed to the sound discretion of the court. “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading . . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP § 576.) Policy favors
liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed matters between the
parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may
permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761
[internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is sought to add entirely new claims,
the court may grant leave to amend if the new claims are based on the same
general set of facts, and the amendment will not prejudice the opposing party.
(Austin v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596,
600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 [holding trial
court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of complaint, which
originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege retaliatory eviction where
the new claim was based on the same general set of facts].) 
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading
must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly
what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new
evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not
made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and
numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (See CRC, rule 3.1324(a), (b).)
 
On May 1, 2024, the instant matter came
before the court. The court continued the hearing due to Plaintiff’s failure to
submit a declaration in support of the motion or a copy of the proposed
amendment. On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration in
support of the motion for leave to amend along with a copy of the sixth amended
complaint. 
 
Defendant Bank of Hope (“BOH”) opposes
the motion on the grounds Plaintiffs have engaged in unexcused delay in seeking
to add BOH as a party and statute of limitations concerns. Defendant BOH
contends Plaintiffs have litigated this case since December of 2019, fully
aware of their loan from BOH. Plaintiff Claudia Martignoni purports to have
communicated directly with BOH prior to July of 2018 regarding the transaction,
so no concealment of facts could justify a delay in seeking to pursue a claim
against BOH. Moreover, the statute of limitations for Plaintiffs to assert a
negligence claim against BOH ran as of at least July 18, 2021. Plaintiffs seeks
to avoid the application of the statute of limitations first by naming BOH as a
DOE defendant in December of 2023, and now by the proposed Sixth Amended
Complaint. 
 
Plaintiffs have been dilatory in
bringing the proposed amendment.  BOH has
demonstrated that the delay in seeking leave to amend has prejudiced BOH, as it
is now being brought into a case stemming from events which occurred in 2018
and 2019.  (See Solit v. Tokai Bank,
Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿ Plaintiff has
given no explanation as to why it did not bring the claim earlier, since all of
the facts underlying the new claims were known to plaintiffs by 2019: namely,
that BOH had approved the loan after making representations that the purchase
was sound.   Any negligence claim would
have to have been brought within two years of plaintiff learning that the
purchase was not sound.  Without
determining precisely when that occurred, it certainly was prior to December
2021.   The relation back doctrine does
not save this amendment because it only will “relate back” new causes of action
to the date on which a new defendant was named. 
While the relation back doctrine has some elasticity, Plaintiff cannot
stretch the doctrine back in time to bring a claim against a newly named
defendant based on the initial filing date against unrelated defendants.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to Amend is DENIED. 