 Case Number:  22STCV21435    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Amelita
D. Zavaleta Bautista 
Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for
Plaintiff Rosa Imelda Ramirez
Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Orlando Garcia
Ramos
 
Tentative
The Court will call this matter.  Counsel may not submit on the tentative.
Background
On July 1, 2022, Amelita D. Zavaleta Bautista
(“Bautista”), Rosa Imelda Ramirez (“Ramirez”), and Orlando Garcia Ramos (“Ramos”)
filed a complaint against Elissa Esther Leon, Fortino Leon (collectively
“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor
vehicle negligence and general negligence arising from an automobile accident
occurring on July 5, 2020. 
 
On October 5, 2022, Defendants filed their answer to the
complaint.
 
On April 2, 2024, the three motions that are currently
before the Court and set for hearing on May 1, 2024, were filed: (1) motion to
substitute Jose M. Gollaz for Bautista, who died on November 12, 2023; (2)
motion to substitute Oscar Manuel Ramirez for Ramirez, who died on August 24,
2023; and (3) motion to substitute Oscar Manuel Ramirez for Ramos, who died on
May 13, 2023.  Defendants filed
opposition to the three motions on April 16, 17, and 18, 2024.
 
The three motions were heard on May 1, 2024.  At the close of the hearing, the Court
requested additional briefing and continued the hearings to June 18.
 
On May 17 and 22, additional filings were submitted in
support of the motions to substitute Oscar Manuel Ramirez for Ramirez and
Ramos.  No additional briefing was
submitted in support of the motion to substitute Jose M. Gollaz for Bautista.
 
On June 5, 2024, Defendants filed supplemental
oppositions to the motions to substitute Oscar Manuel Ramirez for Ramirez and
Ramos.
 
No replies have been submitted.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that
the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration must attach a
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
The term
“decedent’s successor in interest” is defined (in part) as “the beneficiary of
the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.)  
If the
decedent died leaving a will, the term “beneficiary of the decedent’s estate”
is defined (in part) as “the sole beneficiary or all of the beneficiaries who
succeed to a cause of action … under the decedent’s will.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.10, subd. (a).)  If the decedent died without leaving a will,
the term is defined (in part) as “the sole person or all of the persons who
succeed to a cause of action” under the provisions of the Probate Code
governing intestate succession.  (Id.,
subd. (b).)
Discussion
Since the time of the filing of the complaint,
all three plaintiffs have died.  Jose
Gollaz seeks to substitute in for Bautista, and Oscar Ramirez seeks to
substitute in for Ramirez and Ramos.
Each of the three motions to substitute is
supported by the declaration required by statute.
As to Plaintiff Bautista, the Declaration of
Jose M. Gollaz includes:
(1) the
decedent’s name;
(2) the date and
place of Plaintiff’s death;
(3) that there
is no proceeding now pending in California for the administration of
Plaintiff’s estate;
(4) that
Petitioner is the Plaintiff’s successor in interest; and 
(5) that no
other person has a superior right to be substituted in for Plaintiff.
The declaration is sworn under penalty of
perjury and attaches a copy of the death certificate.
As to Plaintiffs Ramirez and Ramos, the Declarations
of Oscar Manuel Ramirez include:
(1) the decedents’
names;
 (2) the date and place of Plaintiffs’
deaths;
(3) that there
is no proceeding now pending in California for the administration of either Plaintiff’s
estate;
(4) that Petitioner
is the successor in interest of each Plaintiff; and
(5) that no
other person has a superior right to be substituted in for either Plaintiff; 
The declarations are sworn under penalty of
perjury and attach copies of the death certificates.
Plaintiff Bautista
The declaration of Jose M. Gollaz meets all
of the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.  
In addition, the documents in the record show
that the will of Plaintiff Bautista directs that her intangible personal
property (which includes the cause of action in this matter) is to be
distributed to her Living Trust. 
(Collins Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. A, Last Will and Testament, Article
5.)  The Living Trust, in turn, provides
that upon her death, the trust property is to be distributed 100 percent to
Jose Gollaz.  (Collins Decl., Exh. A,
Living Trust, Article 5.1(a).)  
Accordingly, the facts in the record support
the statement in the declaration of Jose Gollaz that he is the successor in
interest to Plaintiff Bautista.  The
motion to substitute Jose Gollaz as the successor in interest to Plaintiff
Bautista is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Ramirez
The declaration of Oscar Manuel Ramirez filed
with the original motion (on April 2, 2024) meets all of the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.  
In addition, documents in the record (filed
by Defendants on April 17) show that the will of Plaintiff Ramirez directs that
her intangible personal property is to be distributed to a Living Trust
established jointly by her and Plaintiff Ramos. 
(Collins Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. A, Last Will and Testament, Article
5.)  The Living Trust document was not in
the record as of the time of the May 1 hearing. 

In a filing dated May 17, 2024, Oscar Manuel
Ramirez submits a new declaration attaching the Living Trust document.  (Ramirez Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. 1.)  The Living Trust document states that upon
the deaths of Ramirez and Ramos, the trust property is to divided into equal
shares, with one share for each of the living children of Ramirez and Ramos and
one share for each deceased child who is survived by issue, to be distributed
per stirpes.  (Id., Article
6.)  The term “child” or “children” of
Ramirez and Ramos is specifically defined to include only Oscar Manuel Ramirez
and to exclude Santos Ramirez Bautizta. 
(Id., Article 1.7.)
In opposition, Defendants state, first, that
they were not served with the filing dated May 17, 2024, and became aware of it
only on June 5, 2024, by checking the Court’s website.  (Collins Decl., ¶ 4.)  The proof of service for the May 17 filing,
moreover, does appear to have an error in the email used for electronic
service.
Unless Defendants waive this procedural
error, the Court will CONTINUE the hearing.
Plaintiff Ramos
The declaration of Oscar Manuel Ramirez filed
with the original motion (on April 2, 2024) meets all of the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.  
In addition, documents in the record (filed
by Defendants on April 17) show that the will of Plaintiff Ramos directs that his
intangible personal property is to be distributed to a Living Trust established
jointly by him and Plaintiff Ramirez.  (Collins
Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. A, Last Will and Testament, Article 5.)  The Living Trust document was not in the
record as of the time of the May 1 hearing. 

In a filing dated May 22, 2024, Oscar Manuel
Ramirez submits a new declaration attaching the Living Trust document.  (Ramirez Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. 1.)  The Living Trust document states that upon
the deaths of Ramirez and Ramos, the trust property is to divided into equal
shares, with one share for each of the living children of Ramirez and Ramos and
one share for each deceased child who is survived by issue, to be distributed
per stirpes.  (Id., Article
6.)  The term “child” or “children” of
Ramirez and Ramos is specifically defined to include only Oscar Manuel Ramirez
and to exclude Santos Ramirez Bautizta. 
(Id., Article 1.7.)
In opposition, Defendants state, first, that
they were not served with the filing dated May 22, 2024, and became aware of it
only on June 5, 2024, by checking the Court’s website.  (Collins Decl., ¶ 4.)  The proof of service for the May 22 filing,
moreover, does appear to have an error in the email used for electronic
service.
Unless Defendants waive this procedural
error, the Court will CONTINUE the hearing.
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS the motion to substitute Jose Gollaz as
successor in interest for Plaintiff Amelita D. Zavaleta Bautista.
 
The Court
CONTINUES the hearing on the motions to substitute Oscar Manuel Ramirez as
successor in interest for Plaintiffs Orlando Garcia Ramos and Rosa Imelda
Ramirez
 
For the clarity,
the Court states that the ruling made in this order are preliminary, procedural
rulings and findings based on the facts in the record and the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.31.  These
are not intended to, and do not, preclude Defendants from making any available arguments
at or before trial, and these rulings do not bind any non-parties not in
privity with Defendants. 
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 