  Case Number:  21STCV05805    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion
for Sanctions
 
Tentative
The Court will call this matter.  Counsel may not submit on the tentative.
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
Background
On February 16, 2021, Plaintiff Peter Valdes
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Costco
Wholesale Corporation (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of
action for negligence and premises liability arising out of an alleged slip and
fall on February 17, 2019, at a gas pump at a Costco on Hoxie Avenue in
Norwalk.
On March 26, 2021, Defendant filed an answer.
On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the production of
documents came before the Court. 
Following the hearing, the Court (by Minute Order dated May 1, 2024 [the

“Minute Order”]) ordered Defendant to produce an electronic copy of a training
module video.  Defendant contended that,
because of certain technical issues, the training module video itself could not
be produced, and so the Court ordered that “if a direct copy of the video
cannot be produced, Defendant may produce a captured video recording of the
training video.”  (Minute Order, at p.
5.)  The Court ordered that Defendant
produce the video within 7 days.
Plaintiff contends that Defendant has not complied with the
Minute Order.  On May 13, 2024,
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to enforce the Minute Order, to sanction
Defendant, and continue trial came before the Court.  The Court (1) denied the motion for a new
order compelling Defendant to comply with the Minute Order, on the ground that
the Court had already made its order a new order was unnecessary; (2) denied
the requests for sanctions, without prejudice, as sanctions can be imposed only
after notice and an opportunity to respond; (3) continued the trial date to
June 24; and (4) ordered that no discovery deadlines were extended, except that
either party could pursue further relief relating to the matters addressed in
the Minute Order.
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion contending that
Defendant has not complied with the Minute Order and requesting the following
relief: (1) monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,500; (2) daily trebling of
the monetary sanctions until Defendant complies; (3) that the Court set a
further hearing for issue and/or evidentiary sanctions if Defendant does not
comply with the Minute Order by June 24; and (4) that the Court set a hearing
for terminating sanctions.  The hearing
on this motion was initially set for June 17. 

Defendant did not file a timely opposition.
On June 11, 2024, the Court, on its own motion, continued the
hearing for one day, to June 18.
Defendant filed a untimely opposition on June 13.  This was only three court days before the
hearing date.
Plaintiff filed a reply on June 14.
Legal Standard
“Every court shall have the power to … compel obedience to its
judgments, orders, and process, and to the orders of a judge out of court, in
an action or proceeding pending therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(4).) 
“[I]f a party fails
to obey an order compelling further response [to a request for production], the
court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (i).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, provides, in
pertinent part, “[t]o the extent authorized
by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision
of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or
attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose … sanctions against
anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process.”  Sanctions may include a monetary sanction, an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.
Section 2023.010
defines a “misuse of the discovery process” to include (among other things) failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide
discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without
substantial justification.
The Civil Discovery Act provides for an escalating and
“incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower
Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
566, 604.) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate
with the misconduct, and they “should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “If a lesser
sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.; see also,
e.g., Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
262, 279-280.) 
Terminating sanctions should be used sparingly. (Doppes, supra, 174
Cal.App.4th at p. 992; R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999)
75 Cal. App. 4th 486, 496.) “Although in extreme cases a court has the
authority to order a terminating sanction as a first measure, a terminating
sanction should generally not be imposed until the court has attempted less
severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the record clearly
shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.” (Lopez, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th
at p. 604.)  But where discovery violations are “willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Doppes, supra, 174
Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) Repeated and willful violations of discovery orders
that prejudice the opposing party may warrant a terminating sanction. (Creed-21
v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702; Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390; Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327; Lang v.
Hachman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246; Collisson X Kaplan
v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622.)
The
primary purpose of discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil
Discovery Act and the Court’s orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v.
Super. Ct. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613; Ghanooni v. Super
Shuttle of Los Angeles (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery
sanction should not create a “windfall” for a party or place a party in a
better position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply
complied with its obligations under the Court’s orders and the Civil Discovery
Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,
1194; see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶ 8:2214-2220.)
Discussion
On May
1, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce
documents responsive to Request No. 6 in a deposition notice.  As set forth in the Court’s Minute Order, Request
No. 6 requests production of: 
 
“Any and all DOCUMENTS relating to safety
training of new Costco Wholesale Corporation gas station attendants, in effect
at the time of the SUBJECT INCIDENT, including any training videos,
particularly the training video(s) related to handling gas spills.”
 
Plaintiff
contends that in response to the Minute Order, Defendant made an incomplete
production, and the videos that were produced “are horrendous quality” with extensive
and distracting background noise that make them unsuitable for use at
trial.  (See Araj Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
As a
threshold matter, Plaintiff asks this Court to disregard Defendant’s late-filed
opposition.  In other circumstances, the
Court might well disregard an opposition filed so late, without even a hint of an
excuse offered by the filing party.  The
Court, however, prefers to resolve disputes on the merits, rather than based on
a procedural default, and after reviewing the opposition and supporting
declaration, the Court exercises its discretion under these circumstances, to
consider the late-filed opposition.  The
Court also considers the reply, and allows Plaintiff additional time at the
hearing (if needed) to provide any further oral arguments in reply to the late-filed
opposition.
 
Turning
to the merits, the Court finds, on this record, that Defendant has violated the
Minute Order.  Discovery is not a game,
and producing “horrendous” quality videos that are not usable at trial is not
consistent with Defendant’s obligations under the Civil Discovery Act or the
Minute Order.  
 
Notably,
even in the late-filed opposition, Defendant does not contest Plaintiff’s factual
contention that the videos are of “horrendous” quality.  Defendant’s silence on this point is deafening.  The Court treats this as conceded.
 
Instead,
Defendant continues to argue the merits of the motion that the Court heard on
May 1 and on which the Court made its ruling. 
Defendant, of course, is free to disagree with the Court’s ruling, but
Defendant must nonetheless comply with the Court’s orders.  Arguing now, six weeks after the Court made
its orders, in a late opposition, that the motion should have been denied
because it was moot and that no good cause was shown does not help Defendant’s
position.  (Flock Decl., ¶¶ 9, 15.)  The issue before the Court is whether
Defendant complied with the Minute Order, not whether it was a correct ruling.
 
Next,
the Court turns to what sanctions (if any) should be imposed for Defendant’s
violation of the Minute Order.  
 
Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions.  (Notice of
Motion, Item No. 1.)  That request is
granted.  Defendant has failed to comply
with the Minute Order, Defendant’s conduct is not substantially justified, and the
imposition of sanctions would not be unjust. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (i).)  The Court sets monetary
sanctions in the amount of $1,500; based on the evidence submitted by
Plaintiff, which the Court credits and finds reasonable, an even higher amount
of sanctions could be appropriate here, but Plaintiff requests only
$1,500.  (Plaintiff’s counsel has shown,
with evidence, that he reasonably incurred four hours of work on the motion,
his billing rate is $450 per hour, and counsel also incurred a $60 filing
fee.)  (See Araj Decl., ¶ 8.)  
 
The Court DENIES the request that the monetary sanctions be
subject to mandatory, daily trebling.  (Notice
of Motion, Item No. 2.)  Plaintiff offers
no legal or factual basis for such relief.
 
The
Court will hear from counsel with regard to the various items of non-monetary
sanctions requested by Plaintiff.  (Notice
of Motion, Item No. 3.)  Plaintiff
requests that such additional sanctions be ordered after an Order to Show Cause
hearing; it is unclear to the Court why Plaintiff is requesting this additional
step or when Plaintiff is proposing that the matter be heard, given that the
case is set for trial on June 24. 
 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Defendant and its counsel Tharpe
& Howell, LLP, jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions under the
Civil Discovery Act in the amount of $1,500 to Plaintiff within 30 days of notice.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for a
mandatory trebling order.
The Court WILL HEAR FROM COUNSEL on the request
for the setting of an Order to Show Cause hearing as to non-monetary sanctions.
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice.