 Case Number:  23STCV26081    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant Christine Connolly’s Motion to Compel Defendant
to Respond to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
Defendant Christine Connolly’s Motion for an Order
Deeming Admitted as True the Matters Specified in Requests for Admission (Set
One)
Defendant Patrick Connolly’s Motion to Compel Defendant to Respond to Form Interrogatories
(Set One) 
Defendant Patrick Connolly’s Motion to Compel Defendant to Respond to Special Interrogatories
(Set One)
Defendant Patrick Connolly’s Motion to Compel Defendant
to Respond to Requests for Production (Set One)
Defendant Patrick Connolly’s Motion for an Order Deeming
Admitted as True the Matters Specified in Requests for Admission (Set One)
 
, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents and Motions to Deem the Truth of the Matters Asserted filed by Defendants
Patrick Connolly and Christine Connolly.
 
Tentative
The motions are granted.
The requests for sanctions are granted in
part and denied in part.
Background
On October 25, 2023, Amer Maayta
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Patrick Michael Connolly, Christine
Connolly (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 28 for motor vehicle
negligence arising out of an accident on September 9, 2023, near the
intersection of the 5 Freeway and Citadel Drive in Commerce. On December 15,
2023, Defendants filed an answer. 
 
On January 30, 2024, Defendant
Christine Connolly served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories (Set One), and
Requests for Admission (Set One).  (Coverdale
Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs. 1, A.)  On the same
day, Defendant Patrick Connolly served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories (Set
One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for Production (Set One), and
Requests for Admission (Set One). (Id., ¶ 3 & Exhs. 1, A.)  Despite requesting, and receiving, several
extensions of time, Plaintiff never served responses.  (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
On May 6, 2024, Defendants filed these
six discovery motions: motions to compel Plaintiff to respond to both
Defendants’ form interrogatories, a motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to Defendant
Patrick Connolly’s special interrogatories, a motion to compel Plaintiff to
respond to Defendant Patrick Connolly’s requests for production, and motions
for deemed-admitted orders as to each Defendant’s requests for admission.
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days
after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) There is no time limit
for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and confer efforts are
required. (See id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc.
v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor
must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial responses to
interrogatories, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(c).)
A party must respond to requests for production of
documents within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260,
subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for production of documents are directed
does not provide timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) There
is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and
confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When
a party moves to compel initial responses to requests for production, “the
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes [the motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
A party must
respond to requests for admission within 30 days after service. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.250, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for admission are directed
does not provide a timely response, the propounding party “may move for an
order that … the truth of [the] matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) There is no time
limit for such a motion, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id.,
§ 2033.280; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) 
The court “shall”
make the order that the truth of the matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted unless the court “finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c); see St. Mary v. Super. Ct. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778-780.)
“It is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion [to deem
admitted the truth of the matters specified in the requests for admission].”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
Discussion
Defendant Christine Connolly served Form
Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Admission (Set One).  (Coverdale Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs. 1, A.)  Defendant Patrick Connolly served Plaintiff
with Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Requests
for Production (Set One), and Requests for Admission (Set One). (Id., ¶
3 & Exhs. 1, A.)  Plaintiff never
served responses.  (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
Defendants need not show anything
more.  Both Defendants’ motions to compel
Plaintiff to respond to form interrogatories are granted.  Defendant Patrick Connolly’s motions to
compel Plaintiff to respond to special interrogatories and requests for
production are granted.  Both Defendants’
motions for deemed-admitted orders as to the requests for admission are
granted.
 
The requests for sanctions are
granted in part and denied in part.
 
The requests for sanctions regarding
the interrogatories and requests for production are denied.  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290 and
2031.300 provide for an award of sanctions against any party or attorney “who unsuccessfully makes or opposes” a motion o compel, but here
Plaintiff has not opposed the motion.
 
The requests for sanctions
regarding the requests for admission are granted.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280 provides that an award of sanctions is “mandatory”
against any party or attorney “whose
failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion.”  Given the relatively
straightforward nature of these motions, as well as the economies of scale
associated with preparing multiple discovery motions, the Court sets sanctions for
each of the two requests for admission motions at $335 per motion, based on one
hour of attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s billing rate of $275 per hour,
plus the filing fee of $60.  (See
Coverdale Decls., ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the six discovery motions. 
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
to serve verified, written, code compliant responses, without objections, to Defendant
Patrick Connolly’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) within 15 days
of notice. 
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
to serve verified, written, code compliant responses, without objections, to Defendant
Christine Connolly’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) within 15 days
of notice. 
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
to serve verified, written, code compliant responses, without objections, to Defendant
Patrick Connolly’s Special Interrogatories (Set One) within 15 days
of notice. 
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
to serve verified, written, code compliant responses, without objections, to Defendant
Patrick Connolly’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One) within 15 days
of notice. 
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff
is deemed to have admitted the truth of the matters specified in Defendant
Patrick Connolly’s Request for Admissions (Set One ).
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff
is deemed to have admitted the truth of the matters specified in Defendant
Christine Connolly’s Request for Admissions (Set One).
 
The Court GRANTS
IN PART and DENIES IN PART Defendants’ request for sanctions. 
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
and her counsel of record, Gene Goldsmith, jointly and severally, to pay
monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act in the amount of $335 to
Plaintiff Christine Connolly within 30 days of notice.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
and her counsel of record, Gene Goldsmith, jointly and severally, to pay
monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act in the amount of $335 to
Plaintiff Patrick Connolly within 30 days of notice.
 
Moving party
is ORDERED to give notice.