  Case Number:  23STCP04292    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  82 Lin Ouyang                                                               Case No. 23STCP04292
                                                                        Hearing: September 20,
2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Los
Angeles Department                                          Department:
82                                    

of
Building and Safety                                              Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                                    
                                     
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Lin Ouyang (“Petitioner”), a self-represented litigant,
petitions for a writ of mandate directing City of Los Angeles Department of
Building and Safety (the “City” or “LADBS”) to provide Petitioner with all
records responsive to her request under the California Public Records Act
(“CPRA”).  The parties stipulated to an in
camera review of the redacted communications at issue to make a preliminary
determination whether LADBS meets the initial burden to establish the redacted
communications are covered by attorney-client privilege (i.e., the
dominant purpose test).  The court
reviewed the documents and found that LADBS satisfied its initial burden of
establishing that these redacted communications are covered by the
attorney-client privilege.  Petitioner
requested to proceed with trial and submitted legal briefing in which she contends
that: (1) the communications fall within the crime-fraud exception to the
attorney-client privilege; 
(2)
the privilege was waived by disclosure to a LADBS supervisor; and (3) LADBS did
not properly invoke the work product doctrine or show that it applies to any redacted
information.  The court denies the
petition for writ of mandate.  
 
SUMMARY OF THE CPRA
 
Pursuant to the CPRA (Gov. Code § 7921.000, et seq.), individual
citizens have a right to access government records.  In enacting the CPRA, the California
Legislature declared that “access to information concerning the conduct of the
people’s business is a fundamental and necessary right of every person in this
state.”  (Gov. Code, § 7921.000; see also
County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.) 
 
Article 1, Section
3(b) of the Constitution affirms that “[t]he people have the right of access to
information concerning the conduct of the people’s business.”  The Constitution mandates that the CPRA be
“broadly construed,” while any statute “that limits the right of access” must
be “narrowly construed.”  (See Nat’l
Lawyers Guild v. City of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507.)  The CPRA
“does not allow limitations on access to a public record based upon the purpose
for which the record is being requested, if the record is otherwise subject to
disclosure.” (Gov. Code § 7921.300.)  “Any
reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be available for inspection by
any person requesting the record after deletion of the portions that are
exempted by law.”  (Gov. Code §
7922.525(b).)
 
To establish an agency has a duty to disclose under the CPRA, the
petitioner must show that: (1) the record qualifies as a public record; and (2)
the record is in the possession of the agency. 
(See Anderson-Barker v Sup.Ct. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528,
538.)  Once that initial burden is met,
the agency has the burden to proven that public records have been properly
redacted or withheld from disclosure.  (Sacramento County Employees’ Retirement
System v. Superior Court (2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            The court
(Chalfant, J.) issued a judgment in Lin Ouyang v. Osama Younan, et al.,
Case No. 23STCP00605, denying Petitioner’s petition for writ of mandate.  In the Younan case, Petitioner
challenged LADBS’s issuance of Building Permit No. 21016-2000-48357 for
renovation work to an apartment building in which Petitioner resides.  (Ouyang Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 11; Munoz Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. A.)  The city argues: “[A] decision
finding that the crime-fraud exception applies on the grounds plead by
Petitioner, would directly conflict on an issue decided by the Younan
court—namely that LADBS’ Building Permit was issued after LAHD approved the [Tenant
Habitability Plan].”  To that end, both
parties request that the court take judicial notice of pleadings and orders
from the Younan case.  Judge
Chalfant’s decision in the Younan case may not be dispositive because the
case is on appeal, and in the absence of a decision from the District Court of
Appeal, this court is free to reach a different decision.  Therefore, the court shall evaluate
Petitioner’s arguments on the merits and denies both requests for judicial
notice, since the pleadings are not relevant to the court’s decision on the
petition.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        The Court’s In Camera Review 
 
            Per
the parties’ stipulation, the court conducted an in camera review of the
redacted communications to make a preliminary determination whether the City
satisfies the initial burden to establish that the redacted communications are
covered by the attorney-client privilege. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated May 21, 2024.)  The court found that the City “ha[d]
satisfied its initial burden of establishing that these redacted communications
are covered by the attorney-client privilege.” 
(Ibid.)[1]  
 
B.        Crime-Fraud Exception 
 
Petitioner contends that “reasonable inferences can be drawn
from the nonprivileged portions of the email communications, LADBS’ privilege
log and court filings to establish that the services of the lawyer were sought
or obtained to enable or to aid LADBS to commit fraud in another action LASC
23STCP00605 filed by Petitioner against LADBS.” 
(Opening Brief (“OB”) 7.)  Deputy
City Attorney Kaiulani Lie represented LADBS in the Younan case. (See
Munoz Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)  In this
CPRA action, Petitioner contends that attorney Lie’s privileged communications with
LADBS were made for the commission of fraud in the Younan case in two
ways: (1) to make a misrepresentation to the court, in LADBS’s opposition
brief, that LAHD approved the THP prior to LADBS’s issuance of the Building
Permit; and (2) to conspire to withhold public records responsive to
Petitioner’s CPRA request “to discourage Petitioner from prosecuting the
action.”  (OB 8.)
 
The attorney-client privilege does not apply to a confidential
communication between attorney and client “if the services of the lawyer were
sought or obtained to enable or aid anyone to commit or plan to commit a crime
or a fraud.”  (Evid. Code § 956.)  “To invoke the Evidence Code section 956 exception
to the attorney-client privilege, the proponent must make a prima facie
showing that the services of the lawyer ‘were sought or obtained’ to enable or
to aid anyone to commit or plan to commit a crime or fraud.”  (BP Alaska Exploration, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1988)
199 Cal.App.3d 1240, 1262.)  “[T]he
party opposing the privilege must establish a prima facie case of fraud.  The party must also establish a reasonable
relationship between the fraud and the attorney-client communication.”  (People v. Sup. Ct. (Bauman &
Rose) (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1757, 1759; see also State Farm Fire
& Cas. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 54 Cal.App. 4th 625, 643-645.)  
 
After
consideration of Petitioner’s cited evidence, the court concludes that
Petitioner has not made a prima facie showing of fraud or other criminal
activity related to any of the redacted communications.  The disputed emails reflect attorney-client
communications between attorney Lie and LADBS in response to a request from an
opposing party (Petitioner) about matters at issue in pending litigation (the Younan case).  Petitioner’s claims that there was a
fraudulent purpose and intent in these communications are speculative and not
supported by the evidence.  “The mere
charge of illegality will not defeat the privilege.”  (Nowell v. Sup. Ct. (1963) 223
Cal.App.2d 652, 657.)
 
In arguing that
LADBS was engaged in fraud, Petitioner highlights an unredacted email of LADBS
employee Steven Kim, dated October 30, 2023, to LADBS employee Rares Bodea,
stating: “Do we need to create HD clearance if we didn’t create one? Permit was
to convert (E)dormitory to apartment so tenant habitability message did not pop
up in PCIS.”  (OB 8:11-15, citing Ouyang
Decl. Exh. 5, DBS-000022.)  Petitioner
contends that this email, along with other evidence, shows that “LADBS
employees Rares Bodea and Steven Kim knew that LADBS did not check LAHD
clearance when it issued the permit and knew that LADBS should make a
correction, but they concerned about the ongoing litigation against LADBS, thus
sought assistance from attorney Kaiulani Lie, and after the attorney responded
to the request, Steven Kim notified Petitioner that the permit was properly
issued.”   (OB 11:21-26.) 
However, as LADBS argues, Kim’s October 30, 2023, the email is
reasonably interpreted as asking his colleague an informational question and is
not nefarious on its face.  (See Oppo.
15:25-26; see also Evid. Code § 664.) 
Further, the redacted communications, as well as Kim’s email, were sent
in October and November 2023, more than a year after LAHD approved the THP on
September 14, 2022, as Petitioner admits in her reply brief.  (See Reply 1:23-24; Ouyang Decl. Exh. 6.)  Moreover,
the redacted communications were exchanged about six months before LADBS filed
its opposition brief in the Younan case, in or about April 2024.  (Ouyang Decl. 
¶ 12, Exh. 11.)  Based
on the court’s review of the entire record, the court finds insufficient evidence
that any of the redacted communications were sought or obtained to enable LADBS
to engage in any fraud.  Petitioner’s
claim that attorney Lie’s confidential communications were part of a fraudulent
conspiracy to withhold or improperly redact public records is similarly
speculative and not supported by evidence. 
(See OB 8:4-5 and 11:26-28.)[2]      
 
C.        Waiver of Attorney-Client
Privilege 
 
Petitioner contends that LADBS waived the privilege because “LADBS
employee Rares Bodea forwarded attorney Kaiulani Lie’s 10:38:37 AM email to his
supervisor Steven Kim, and Steven Kim later forwarded Kaiulani Lie’s 10:38:37
AM email to Steven Kim’s supervisor Jason Healey.”  (OB 12.) 
Here, it is reasonable to infer that LADBS supervisors should be privy
to communications
between subordinate employees and litigation counsel pertaining to pending
litigation.  Petitioner does not show
that LADBS waived the attorney-client privilege when the communications were
forwarded to the supervisors, who were LADBS employees.  (See Evid. Code § 952; see also Insurance
Co. of North America v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 108 Cal.App.3d 758, 770 [section
952 preserves the confidentiality of attorney-client communications transmitted
“to those persons
to whom such information is reasonably necessary to accomplish the purpose of
the legal consultation”].)[3]  
 
D.        Work Product Doctrine 
 
Petitioner contends, citing the Civil Discovery Act, that LADBS waived
the work product doctrine by failing to assert that it applied in its initial
response to the CPRA request.   (OB 13.) 
The CPRA, and not the Civil Discovery Act, sets forth the duties of
public agencies in their responses to requests for public records.  Petitioner does not cite any statute from the
CPRA, or related case law, that supports her position that a public agency
waives a claim of exemption not asserted in an initial response to a CPRA
request.  Accordingly, Petitioner’s
argument is not persuasive.    
 
Petitioner further argues contends that LADBS did not present sufficient
evidence to prove that the work product doctrine applies to any of the redacted
communications.  (OB 14.)  In its privilege log, LADBS claimed the work
product doctrine for several communications for which it also claimed the
attorney-client privilege.  (Ouyang Decl.
Exh. 6.)  Because the court concludes
that the communications were properly redacted pursuant to the attorney-client
privilege, the court need not decide whether the work product doctrine also
applies.[4]
 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         Respondent’s counsel shall lodge a
proposed judgment forthwith.  If
Respondent’s counsel fails to do so within five (5) days, Petitioner may lodge
a proposed judgment.
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.    
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated: September
20, 2024                                        ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


