 Case Number:  24STCV15019    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  82 Stellantis Financial Services, Inc.                           Case No. 24STCV15019
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
September 20, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
Jennifer Gonzalez Brambila                               Judge: Stephen I.
Goorvitch
                        
                                     
[Tentative] Order Granting
Application for Writ of Possession 
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Stellantis Financial Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
seeks a writ of possession against Defendant Jennifer Gonzalez Brambila (“Defendant”)
over the following property: 2023 RAM 3500 Vehicle Identification Number
3C63RPGL9PG604963 (the “Vehicle”). 
Defendant does not oppose the application.  Because Plaintiff has satisfied the statutory
requirements, the court grants the application and issues a writ of possession,
as well as a turnover order.    
             
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing
a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is
brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.010(a).)  Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and
include:
 
(1) A showing of the
basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the
defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement that the
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 512.010(b).)
            In addition to the
requirements of section 512.010(b), the Defendant must be served with (1) a
copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and
(3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.030.)  Finally, Plaintiff must establish that the
claim is “probably valid.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 512.040(b).)  “A claim has
‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will
obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 511.090.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Notice

 
Plaintiff
provided proper notice, per the proof of service filed on September 17, 2024.
 
B.        Probable
Validity of Plaintiff’s Claim 
 
Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession based on its claim for possession
of personal property.  On or about November
22, 2023, Defendant entered into a Retail Installment Sale Contract (the “Contract”)
with Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest to purchase the Vehicle.  (Holland Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. 1-2.)  Plaintiff submits evidence that the Contract
was assigned to Plaintiff.  (Ibid.)  Defendant defaulted on the Contract by
failing to make payments when due, and there is a balance due of $101,783.08.  (Id. ¶¶ 7 and 11, Exh. 3.)  This establishes that Plaintiff probably will
prevail on the claim.
 
C.        Wrongful
Detention
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(2), the application
must include “a showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.” 
Under the Contract, Plaintiff has the right to repossess the Vehicle in
the event of default.  (Holland Decl. Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff has demanded that Defendant
surrender the Vehicle.  (Id. ¶ 9.)
 Thus, Plaintiff
has made a showing that Defendant has wrongfully detained the Vehicle.
 
D.        Description and Value of Property
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(3), the
application must include a particular description of the property and a
statement of its value.  Plaintiff
has provided a particular description of the property, by make, and VIN
number.  Plaintiff has also given a
statement as to value.  Plaintiff
therefore satisfies section 512.010(b)(3).
 
E.         Statutory
Statement
 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(5), Plaintiff must provide a statement
that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant
to statute and has not been seized under an execution against the Plaintiff’s
property.  Plaintiff has complied with
this requirement.
 
F.         Location
of the Property
 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(4), Plaintiff must identify the probable location of the vehicle and establish probable cause to that
effect.  Plaintiff seeks a writ of
possession directing the levying officer to take the Vehicle from real property
located at 550
E. Jefferson Blvd. Apt. 1 Los Angeles, CA 90011.  (Appl. ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiff must establish “probable cause” to believe that the Vehicle is
located at the property specified in the application.  (See CCP §§ 512.010(b)(4), 512.080.)   Plaintiff has satisfied that burden.  (See Holland Decl. ¶ 13 and Exh. 1; see
also Proof of Service filed September 17, 2024.)
 
G.        Undertaking  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010 requires an undertaking to be
filed before the writ issues in the amount of “not less than twice the value of
the defendant’s interest in the property.” 
Section
515.010(a) states that the value of the defendant’s interest “is determined by
the market value of the property less the amount due and owing on any
conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens and encumbrances
on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine the defendant’s
interest in the property.”  Plaintiff
submits evidence that the amount owed on the Contract exceeds the Vehicle’s
value.  (Holland Decl. ¶¶ 11-12.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff is not required to
post an undertaking.  
 
H.        Turnover
Order
 
Plaintiff appears to request a turnover order.  (See Memorandum 2:17-22.)  Section 512.070 states: “If a writ
of possession is issued, the court may also issue an order directing
the defendant to transfer possession of the property to the plaintiff. Such
order shall contain a notice to the defendant that failure to turn over
possession of such property to plaintiff may subject the defendant to being
held in contempt of court.”  (emphasis
added.) “Thus a ‘turnover’ order, issued pursuant to section 512.070, is not a
separate remedy but rather an alternative means of enforcing a writ of
possession.”  (Edwards v. Sup.Ct. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173, 178.)  Because all requirements for issuance of the
writ of possession are met, the court also issues a turnover order.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court orders as
follows:
 
1.         The
application for a writ of possession of the Vehicle is granted.  
 
2.         The
court orders Defendant Jennifer Gonzalez Brambila to turnover the vehicle to
Plaintiff Stellantis Financial Services, Inc. forthwith.
 


 
3.         Plaintiff
is not required to post an undertaking.  
 
4.         Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: September 20,
2024                                        ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    