  Case Number:  19STCV11497    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  39 Adrian Komorowski v. Charter
Communications, LLC, et al.
Case No. 19STCV11497
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
BACKGROUND

 
            Plaintiff Adrian Komorowski
(“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Chater Communications, LLC (“Charter”)
and Farid Golshan (“Golshan”) (collectively, “Defendants”) on April 3,
2019.  Now, Plaintiff seeks leave to file
a third amended complaint adding new causes of action and legal theories.  The motion is denied.        
 
PLAINTIFF’S
ALLEGATIONS 
            
            Plaintiff filed this action on April
3, 2019, and filed first and second amended complaints on April 22 and April
30, 2019, respectively.  In the operative
complaint, Plaintiff asserts causes of action for violation of Labor Code
sections 233 and 246.5, violation of the California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”),
retaliation, failure to take steps to prevent discrimination/retaliation,
violations of Labor Code sections 1102.5 and 6310, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, defamation, wrongful termination in violation of public
policy, and violation of Labor Code section 2699, et seq.  Plaintiff alleges as follows:
 
            On January 17, 2018, a fellow
supervisor, Rihanna Nelson, made a complaint against Cara Kuberman.  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 19.)  In response, Kuberman threatened to kill
Nelson and Nelson’s sister.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff learned about the incident on
January 24, 2018, and advised Nelson to report the threat.  (Id., ¶ 20.) 
Plaintiff accompanied Nelson when she complained to Defendant Farid Golshan,
in response to which Golshan said, “I wish you hadn’t told me that” and refused
to report the incident to the human resources department.  (Ibid.) 

 
            On or about January 17, 2018, Charter
implemented a policy “to all supervisors and managers to refrain from allowing
their agents to use their computers.” 
(Id., ¶ 15.)  As a result,
Plaintiff “stopped allowing his agents to use his computer immediately upon
receiving the Computer Policy.”  (Ibid.)  On or about February 12, 2019, Plaintiff was
summoned to a meeting “regarding Plaintiff’s agents’ use of his computer in
early January 2018,” in violation of the policy.   (Id., ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff reported that other supervisors were “still allowing their
agents to use their computers” but that he was not.  (Ibid.) 
The meeting did not result in any warning or corrective action against
Plaintiff.  (Ibid.)
 
            On or about February 19, 2018,
Plaintiff witnessed another supervisor’s agent use the supervisor’s
computer.  (Id., ¶ 18.)  Plaintiff reported the incident to Golshan.  (Ibid.) 
Golshan “simply shrugged and said nothing.”  (Ibid.)
 
            On or about March 20, 2018,
Plaintiff provided a written statement in support of a workers’ compensation
claim by Nelson against Charter.  (Id., ¶
22.)  “Plaintiff is informed and believes
that Nelson’s workers’ compensation case was filed and served on December on or
about March 20, 2018.”  (Ibid.)  Then, Plaintiff was out of work on March 24,
25, and 26, 2018.  (Id., ¶ 23.)  Plaintiff used his vacation time for the
first two days, and used his sock time for the third day.  (Ibid.) 
“At the time Plaintiff had numerous vacation and sick days
available.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff was terminated on March 27,
2018.  (Id., ¶ 24.)  
 
            Plaintiff filed this action,
alleging that he was terminated unlawfully for using time-off in March 2018
because he was sick.  (Id., ¶¶ 31-34.)  Plaintiff alleges that he had a “serious
health condition” and that Defendant was on notice of this fact.  (Id., ¶¶ 44-46.)  Plaintiff alleges that he suffered
retaliation as a result of taking sick leave when “[h]e had plenty of sick time
available.”  (Id., ¶ 52.)  Plaintiff also alleges that he suffered
retaliation by supporting Nelson’s workers’ compensation case.  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff does not specify his health condition or allege that he
suffered from a disability during the relevant time period.  
 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY             
 
            Defendants filed a motion to compel
arbitration.  The Court (Feffer, J.)
denied that motion on March 2, 2020.  On
April 22, 2020, Defendants filed a notice of appeal, which automatically stayed
this case per Code of Civil Procedure section 916(a).  Defendants’ counsel stipulated to the stay at
the hearing on March 4, 2021.  (See
Court’s Minute Order, dated March 4, 2021.) 
The remittitur issued on April 22, 2022. 
Previously, on June 15, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to
compel Plaintiff’s deposition and ordered Plaintiff and his counsel to pay $9,703
in discovery sanctions, finding that they abuse the discovery process.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 15,
2023.)  Defendants filed a motion for
summary judgment on September 15, 2023.  Plaintiff
filed a motion for leave to file a third amended complaint on October 6, 2023.    
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(a)(1), “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by ther code.”  The Court has wide discretion
to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)  
 
DISCUSSION

 
            A.        Disability-Related
Claims 
 
            Plaintiff seeks to add
disability-related claims: (1) Discrimination based on disability/medical
condition or perceived disability/medical condition; (2) Failure to reasonable
accommodate disability/perceived disability; and (3) Failure to engage in a good-faith
interactive process.  The motion is
denied for two independent reasons. 
 
            First, Plaintiff has known the
operative facts/claims for over five years, and the amendment would pose undue
prejudice to Defendants.  Plaintiff
alleges that he suffered from a disability on March 24, 25, and 26, 2018, because
“he was sick and had various symptoms such as a severe fever, body aches, leg
pain, and lower back pain.”  (Proposed
Third Amended Complaint, ¶ 77.)  Inexplicably,
Plaintiff included disability discrimination as a ground in his complaint to
FEHA, but then decided not to raise these claims in his first three
complaints.  Now, over five years later,
Plaintiff again seeks to raise these claims. 

 
There is no good cause for this amendment.  Plaintiff has known about any alleged
disability (or the underlying facts) since March 2018.  Similarly, Plaintiff knew that he took a
protected leave of absence for the alleged disability and was terminated
immediately thereafter.  Plaintiff has
known about any alleged failure to accommodate his disability and failure to
engage in the good faith interactive process since his termination or shortly
thereafter.  Plaintiff has known since
the operative complaint that he had sick days available to cover this
absence.  (See Second Amended Complaint,
¶ 23.)  Plaintiff’s counsel argues that
she only just learned that “Charter knew [her client] was out sick” and “there
was no justification for not allowing Plaintiff to complete his medical leave
before effectuating his termination.” 
(Plaintiff’s Reply Brief, p. 7:27-8:1.) 
While these facts may support Plaintiff’s CFRA and related retaliation
claim, they do not give rise to new claims for disability discrimination.  Simply, Plaintiff’s counsel articulates no
good cause why she could not have included the new causes of action and
underlying factual allegations in the first three complaints.  Indeed, Plaintiff’s motion and reply brief do
not detail specifically what new evidence was discovered giving rise to these
purported claims.  The Court also finds that
this amendment would give rise to undue prejudice to Defendants.  Essentially, Plaintiff now seeks to expand
the scope of the case and change the legal theories after discovery has
proceeded for 18 months and the trial date is less than four years away.  Plaintiff’s counsel has not stipulated to pay
Defendants’ additional discovery costs as a condition of granting this motion.  For all of these reasons, the motion is
denied.  
 
            Second, the motion is denied because
the new disability-related claims are time-barred.  Plaintiff was terminated on or about March
27, 2018, and first seeks to raise these claims over five years later.  Plaintiff’s counsel argues that the new
claims relate back to the operative complaint. 
Plaintiff’s counsel is incorrect. 
In order for claims to relate back, the operative complaint must contain
sufficient factual allegations to support the new causes of action.  “The
requirement that the complaint allege ultimate facts forming the basis for the
plaintiff's cause of action is central to the relation-back doctrine and the
determination of whether an amended complaint should be deemed filed as of the
date of the original pleading.”  (Scholes v. Lambirth Trucking Company
(2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 590, 598.)  Plaintiff has never before alleged that
his illness on March 24, 25, and 26, 2018, constituted a disability.  Nor has he ever alleged facts supporting the
reasonable accommodation and interactive process claims.  Therefore, this amendment would be futile,
and the motion is denied on that basis in the alternative.    
 
            B.        Sexual
Harassment Claim
 
            Plaintiff seeks to add a cause of
action for failure to prevent harassment, supported by allegations of sexual
harassment.  Plaintiff also seeks to
predicate his retaliation claim on “participating in an investigation concerning
a senior manager’s inappropriate relationship with an agent . . . .”  (Proposed Third Amended Complaint, ¶
37.)  Now, Plaintiff alleges that he was
“a witness in a sexual harassment investigation regarding a manager dating a
subordinate,” and as a result, “Charter singled Plaintiff out as if he was the
subject of the investigation.”  (Id., ¶
20.)  Plaintiff alleges that while on
leave, on or about March 23, 2018, he was contacted by a Charter investigator
about this investigation.  (Id., ¶ 30.)  Again, Plaintiff articulates no additional
facts supporting this cause of action that were not known over five years ago.  Indeed, Plaintiff knew in March 2018, that he
was interviewed in connection with the sexual harassment investigation and was
terminated shortly thereafter.  As
discussed, there is no good cause for this late amendment; and granting this
motion would give rise to undue prejudice against Defendants.  Therefore, the motion is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the Court
rules as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint to add new causes of action
and related factual allegations relating to disability discrimination and
sexual harassment is denied.
 
            2.         The
Court orders the parties to meet-and-confer whether Plaintiff will stipulate
not to introduce evidence of disability discrimination or sexual harassment at
trial.  The parties may file a
stipulation or, if necessary, motions in limine on this issue.
 
            3.         The
Court orders that the operative second amended complaint shall be amended to
correct the spelling of Farid Golshan’s name and to delete Labor Code section
233 as a statutory predicate of the first cause of action, per Defendants’
counsel’s stipulation.  
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  