  Case Number:  24VECV01379    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  W LESVY RIVERA,
et al. vs HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA
 
defendant hyundai motor america’s motion to
disqualify plaintiffs’ counsel and firm 
 
Date
of Hearing:        December 9, 2024                             Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        24VECV01379
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Hyundai Motor America
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Lesvy Rivera and Ludy Rivera 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On March 26,
2024, Plaintiffs Lesvy Rivera and Ludy Rivera filed a complaint against
Defendant Hyundai Motor America, Inc. for violations of Song-Beverly Act.
Plaintiffs allege Defendant leased Plaintiff the subject vehicle with defects
and Hyundai concealed these defects. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion
to Disqualify Plaintiffs’ Counsel and Firm is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant
Hyundai Motor America (“HMA”) moves the court for an order disqualifying Logan
Hensley and Drake Law aka The Lemon Daddy from continuing to represent
Plaintiffs Lesvy River and Ludy Rivera on the grounds that attorney Logan
Hensley spent the past 1.5 years defending HMA and is now suing HMA in
substantially similar matters he was previously defending HMA against, Mr.
Hensley has an indisputable conflict of interest that must be imputed to his
entire firm as a matter of law, and Mr. Hensley failed to obtain informed
written consent of his successive adverse representation from HMA. 
 
A
trial court is empowered to disqualify counsel through its inherent power to
control the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it. (M’Guinness v.
Johnson (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 602, 669.) A party may move to recuse
(disqualify) counsel for the opposing party on grounds recognized by law,
including mandatory disqualification for conflict of interest.  Conflicts
of interest generally include: concurrent or successive representation of
clients with adverse interests, receipt of confidential information outside the
attorney-client relationship, the lawyer’s relationships with nonclients,
conflicts based on the lawyer’s own interests, business dealings with clients
and conflicts in criminal cases. (Lynn v. George¿(2017) 15 Cal.App.5th
630, 638.)  Before a former client can disqualify an attorney and its
firm under a theory of successive representation, “the former client must show
that the subjects of the successive representations are substantially related.”
(Khani v. Ford Motor Company (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th 916, 920.) 
 
HMA
argues, from December 19, 2022 when Mr. Hensley joined RoseWaldorf LLP until he
left 1.5 years later, Mr. Hensley defended HMA on numerous claims filed under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Act. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶3.) HMA asserts that during the
time he was working for RoseWaldorf, Mr. Hensley billed 777.7 hours defending
HMA and worked on 104 different HMA matters. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶4.) The present
action was filed on March 26, 2024, while Mr. Hensley was employed by
RoseWaldorf and representing HMA is lemon law matters. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶5,
Tahsildoost Decl. ¶2.) HMA claims although some of Mr. Hensley’s representation
of HMA could be considered “limited”, throughout the course of his employment
with RoseWaldorf, Mr. Hensley personally evaluated claims on behalf of HMA and
was involved in strategy decisions on HMA’s defense to such claims as well as involved
with direct client contact regarding HMA’s defenses and strategies of various
cases. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶7.), Exhs. E-L.) Mr. Hensley also “received extensive and
almost constant training regarding HMA’s litigation strategies and the manner
in which those litigation strategies were developed and implemented across all
cases.” (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶9.) HMA goes on to argue Mr. Hensley was responsible
for drafting discovery responses and reviewing and determining which HMA
documents were responsive and discoverable thereby showing his extensive knowledge
of HMA. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶¶10, 11, Exhs. K-L.) Mr. Hensley would also directly
negotiate settlements with plaintiff’s counsels after discussion with in-house
HMA counsel. (Yasuzawa ¶13, Exhs. F-I.) HMA contends these functions of Mr.
Hensley’s demonstrate the extent of the privileged information that he was
privy to and was responsible for maintaining and should be disqualified
pursuant to Rules of Professional Conduct 1.9. 
 
HMA
also raises concerns about Mr. Hensley’s conduct after leaving RoseWaldorf
including his failure to update his State Bar profile and potential misuse of
confidential information. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶¶ 18-26.) Moreover, HMA assets not
only did Mr. Hensley fail to obtain written consent from HMA in violation of
the Rules of Professional Conduct 1.7, but he also started representing clients
whose interest are directly adverse to HMA just four business days
after defending it in the exact same types of actions. As for “screening”, HMA
argues Draw Law’s correspondence to HMA was barebones and absent of any details
about how Mr. Hensley is being screened as is required by Rule of Professional
Conduct 1.10. As a result, Mr. Hensley’s disqualification should be imputed to
Lemon Daddy. As noted above, HMA claims there has been no attempt to screen
Hensley from participation in any of the matters and there is a central email
address.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
HMA has failed to meet the high burden required to show that Mr. Hensley
acquired confidential information from HMA related to the instant matter and
that Mr. Hensley somehow imparted this confidential information to The Drake
Law Firm. Plaintiff relies on Khani v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 916 to support this contention. Ford had employed the firm at which
the plaintiff’s counsel worked from June 2004 to July 2007 and the attorney had
worked on 150 cases for Ford.  (Id. at 919.)  Ford filed a
motion to disqualify the plaintiff’s attorney, accompanied by a declaration
stating that the attorney was privy to confidential client communications and
information relating to the defense of such cases, as well as to pre-litigation
strategies, tactics, and case handling procedures.  (Ibid.) The
trial court granted the motion.  (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal
reversed because it found the evidence “does not establish that any information
to which [plaintiff’s counsel] was exposed during his representation of Ford
would be material to his representation of Khani in this case.” (Id. at
922.) Specifically, the Court of Appeal found Ford did not establish that any
confidential information about the defense in plaintiff’s representation in
other lemon law actions would be at issue in this case, Ford did not show it
had any policies, practices, or procedures generally applicable to the
evaluation, settlement or litigation of California Lemon Law cases at the time plaintiff’s
counsel represented Ford, and it failed to show that the same decision makers
that were involved in cases plaintiff’s counsel handled for Ford are involved
in this case. (Ibid.) Moreover, the Court of Appeal rejected Ford’s
“playbook” theory, i.e., general litigation attitudes, policies, or practices,
without any showing of its materiality. (Ibid.) 
 
The
court finds the facts here similar to Khani. None of the evidence
presented shows that Mr. Hensley worked on or was otherwise involved in the
instant matter while at RoseWaldorf. Nor has HMA presented evidence that the four
business days between Mr. Hensley giving his registration to RoseWaldorf and
beginning to work for Drake Law Firm somehow exposed Mr. Hensley to information
pertinent to the instant action. Rather, HMA merely asserts that Mr. Hensley
was exposed to HMA’s defense strategies and litigation policies in lemon law
matters. This “playbook” argument has already been rejected by other courts and
any speculation that Mr. Hensley had unfettered access to files after giving
his two weeks’ notice is not enough to disqualify counsel. The court notes HMA
attaches an alleged text message between Mr. Hensley and one of RoseWaldorf’s
associates indicating he was seeing their emails about another of RoseWaldorf’s
client’s cases. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶24, Exh. C.) However, the exhibit presented
makes no mention of seeing any emails of RoseWaldorf’s clients. Instead, Mr.
Hensley presents testimony that he never worked on, was involved with, or even
heard of this matter and was never apprised of anything relating to this
matter. (Hensley Decl. ¶9.) Even so, Mr. Hensley testifies that he is currently
not assigned to any HMA actions at The Drake Law Firm. (Hensley Decl. ¶15.) Mr.
Hensley also presents the testimony of Clarence Serrano, a paralegal at Drake
Law Firm. Mr. Serrano testifies he inadvertently included Mr. Hensley on an
email regarding a client and HMA. (Serrano Decl. ¶¶2, 3.) Mr. Serrano testifies
he had been instructed Mr. Hensley is prohibited from accessing any
communications related to cases involving HMA and was told Mr. Hensley would
not be litigating cases against HMA. (Serrano Decl. ¶5.) 
 
The
court notes HMA’s contention Plaintiff ignores the substantial relationship
test cited in Khani. The Court of Appeal in Khani held before former
client can disqualify an attorney and its firm under a theory of successive
representation, “the former client must show that the subjects of the
successive representations are substantially related.”  (Khani, supra,
215 Cal.App.4th at p. 920.) “A substantial relationship exists where “the
attorney had a direct professional relationship with the former client in which
the attorney personally provided legal advice and services on a legal issue
that is closely related to the legal issue in the present representation. [Citation.]
If the former representation involved such a direct relationship with the
client, the former client need not prove that the attorney possesses actual
confidential information.” (Ibid.) The court agrees but as noted below,
irrelevant. HMA has presented evidence Mr. Hensley had direct contact with HMA.
(Yasuzawa Decl. ¶7.) Mr. Yasuzawa for HMA also testifies Mr. Hensley was
responsible drafting responses to discovery and reviewing and determining which
HMA documents were responsive and discoverable and negotiated settlements after
discussions with in-house HMA counsel. (Yasuzawa Decl. ¶¶10, 13.) This direct
relationship would necessarily encompass information material information of
the former representation and ultimately material to the current representation
given its factual and legal issues. However, Mr. Hensley is not the attorney of
record on this matter. 
 
Even
if this court were to find that Mr. Hensley should be disqualified, the court
must also address the issue of whether Drake Law should be vicariously
disqualified. “Once the moving party in a motion for disqualification has
established that an attorney is tainted with confidential information, a
rebuttable presumption arises that the attorney shared that information with
the attorney's law firm. The burden then shifts to the challenged law firm to
establish ‘that the practical effect of formal screening has been achieved. The
showing must satisfy the trial court that the [tainted attorney] has not had
and will not have any involvement with the litigation, or any communication
with attorneys or [ ]employees concerning the litigation, that would support a
reasonable inference that the information has been used or disclosed.’ ” (Kirk
v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776,
809-10.)¿ 
 
As
noted above, HMA argues Mr. Hensley’s disqualification should be imputed to
Drake Law because they failed to properly screen Mr. Hensley and obtain written
consent. HMA points to the e-mail sent by Mr. Serrano, which cc’d Mr. Hensley
regarding another one of RoseWaldorf’s clients. However, this e-mail did not
involve HMA and there is no evidence from HMA that Mr. Hensley was not properly
screened. Mr. Serrano has provided testimony that while there is a central
email address, he has blocked Mr. Hensley from having access to any files
maintained against HMA and blocked Mr. Hensley from receiving any e-mails with
HMA referenced. (Serrano Decl. ¶¶9-10.) Drake Law sent letters on July 2, 2024
and July 8, 2024 discussing the screening procedures that they had put in
place. Mr. Hensley also testifies he works fully remote and does not receive
any portion of the fees from cases against HMA. (Hensley Decl.  ¶7.) The Court finds that the screening
measures taken by Drake Law effectively screened Hensley from matters involving
HMA. Additionally, Drake Law promptly notified HMA of the conflict and
screening measures after they were implemented in compliance with the
California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.10.
 
The
court notes HMA also contends it is unrealistic to believe a firm consisting of
four attorneys does not share information or discuss cases they are not
directly assigned to. However, this is all speculation. As for the failure to
obtain written consent, as noted by Plaintiff, Mr. Hensley was timely screened
and therefore, written consent was not required. (See Kirk, supra,
183 Cal.App.4th at p. 813-814.) 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the court DENIES Defendant’s motion to disqualify counsel. 