 Case Number:  24VECV03463    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  W STEPHEN ISLES
vs GENERAL MOTORS LLC
 
general motor
llc’s demurrer with motion to strike complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
9, 2024                 Trial Date:       None set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV03463
 
Moving Party:            Defendant General Motors, LLC  

Responding Party:     Plaintiff Stephen Isles   
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Major ¶2.)[1] 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action
arises out of the alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Act. Plaintiff
purchased a 2018 Chevrolet Traverse. Plaintiff alleges during the warranty
period, the subject vehicle developed defects which have manifested in repeated
brake failure.  On July 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant General Motors LLC for various
violations of the Song Beverly Warranty Act and Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act as
well as violation of Business and Professions Code. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant GM’s demurrer to the seventh
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant GM’s motion to
strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant General Motors LLC (“GM”)
demur to the seventh cause of action for Violation of Business and Professions
Code on the grounds the allegations are vague, ambiguous, and contain nothing
more than conclusory statements that do not meet the pleading requirements of
UCL causes of action. 
 
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)¿ A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.¿ (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer,
a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice,
or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)¿ For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true,
but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
GM demurs to the complaint on several
grounds including the seventh cause of action is time barred, uncertain, does
not state a claim for injunctive relief or identify any misrepresentations or
omissions made by GM. 
 
First, GM asserts claims under the UCL
are subject to a four-year statute of limitations. In opposition, Plaintiff
argues Defendant cherry picks verbiage from the statute without actually
quoting it. Business and Professions Code section 17208 provides: “Any action
to enforce any cause of action…. shall be commenced within four years after
the cause accrued.” (emphasis added.) Plaintiff maintains because the
seventh cause of action incorporates causes of actions which contain ongoing
violations, the causes of action have not accrued. 
 
The court agrees on the face of the
complaint, the seventh cause of action is time barred. While Plaintiff argues
in their opposition all six causes of action are ongoing violations of law and
therefore, the continuous accrual doctrine extends the time to file the
lawsuit. However, this is not alleged. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the
demurrer on these grounds. 
 
GM also argues Plaintiff fails to
establish the alleged unlawfulness of GM’s conduct with sufficient facts and
moreover, Plaintiff has failed to establish the requisite standing to recover
under the UCL as the complaint fails to allege any facts in support of the
contention that Plaintiff has suffered an injury in fact and has lost money or
property as a result of unfair competition as required pursuant to Section
17204. The court disagrees. By proscribing “any unlawful” business practice,
“section 17200 ‘borrows' violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful
practices” that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.¿ (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180, quoting State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Superior
Court (1996) 45 CA4 1093, 1103.)¿The complaint sufficiently alleges their
UCL claim is based on Defendant’s purported violation of the Song-Beverly Act
and Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act
as alleged in the preceding causes of action. These allegations are also
sufficient to establish standing to allege a UCL claim. 
 
Lastly, Defendant argues the cause of
action fails to state a claim for injunctive relief. Defendant contends Plaintiff
fails to allege any basis whatsoever that would entitle him to injunctive
relief other than stating it as being appropriate again with no supportive
allegations as to why. The court disagrees. Again, the complaint sufficiently
alleges Plaintiff has been harmed by the alleged violations of the Song-Beverly
Act and therefore, may be entitled to injunctive relief. 
 
The court notes Defendant makes an
argument regarding Plaintiff’s failure to identify any misrepresentations or
omissions made by GM to Plaintiff. GM contends this is required for UCL claims.
However, UCL may be based on unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
practices. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant GM’s demurrer to
the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendant
GM moves to strike from Plaintiff’s complaint the demand for punitive damages
in the Prayer for Relief. Defendant GM makes the motion on the grounds punitive
damages are not available under Song-Beverly, Magnuson-Moss Act, nor the
B&P. Moreover, Defendant GM argues Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to support punitive damages. 
 
While a plaintiff is not entitled to
recover both punitive damages and civil penalties under Song-Beverly and
Magnuson-Moss, at the pleading stage, it is proper to pursue alternative
remedies. Regardless, the court agrees there are insufficient allegations for
fraud.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is
GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 


