 Case Number:  23STCV13558A    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30
Calendar
No.
Present, et. al. vs. Playa Properties 2, LLC, et.
al.,
Case No. 23STCV13558
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike
 
Playa Property 2, Playa Partnership
Properties, Playa Property 3, and Playa Land (Defendants) move to strike Harold Present, Regina
Present, and Jacqueline Present’s (Plaintiffs) prayer and justification for
punitive damages. Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.
 
Plaintiffs argue that
they did not receive notice of the present motion as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b). That section provides that all moving
papers shall be filed and served at least 18 court days before the hearing if
served by email. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Here, with a hearing
date of November 15, 2024, for the present motion, Defendants needed to serve
all papers by October 21, 2024. Plaintiffs were never served with the motion
and have only been able to respond through diligent discovery of the online
filing. (Bentley Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendants filed their motion on October 29, 2024,
also past the statutory deadline. Thus, Defendants’ motion is not timely under
section 1005.
 
Plaintiffs also argue
that Defendants’ motion to strike is deficient under section 435. It provides
that motions to strike are only permitted within the time allowed to respond to
a pleading. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) Here, Plaintiffs filed
their SAC on September 9, 2024. Thus, any motion to strike must have been filed
by October 9, 2024. (Id., § 412.20, subd. (a)(3).) Defendants filed
their motion on October 29. Additionally, Defendants’ motion addresses language
that Plaintiffs included in their original and first amended complaints as
well. Thus, Defendants’ motion is not timely under section 435, either.
 
            Finally,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants have failed to comply with section 1008,
subdivision (a). That section prohibits a motion for reconsideration more than 10
days after the entry of an order by the Court. (Id., § 1008, subd. (a).)
However, Defendants do not ask the Court to reconsider its earlier decision
allowing for leave to amend. Rather, Defendants move for an order striking any
claims for punitive damages from the newly filed SAC. Thus, Defendants’ motion
is not deficient under section 1008.
 
            The
Court exercises its discretion to consider the merits of the present motion
despite the procedural deficiencies identified above.
 
The Court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The Court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).)
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false
or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.,
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
 
Defendants move to
strike Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive damages. A plaintiff may recover
punitive damages where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).) Malice is defined as conduct intended to injure the plaintiff or
despicable conduct by a defendant acting with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights and safety of others. (Id., § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
Oppression means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of their rights. (Id., § 3294, subd.
(c)(2).) And fraud refers to intentional misrepresentations or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant. (Id., § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
 
A plaintiff attempting
to prove malice or oppression must offer clear and convincing evidence of
despicable conduct. (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4
Cal.App.4th 306, 328 (Mock).) This refers to conduct “so vile, base,
contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Id. at p. 331.) A claim
for punitive damages is insufficient where it lacks a factual assertion
supporting the conclusion that a party acted with oppression, malice, or fraud.
(Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
allege that “the conduct of Defendants . . . has been oppressive, fraudulent,
or malicious in that said Defendants have acted with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others . . . because they ignored
citations from the City of Los Angeles (City) requiring them to repair the
retaining wall . . . and also ignored numerous warnings that their retaining
wall and slope was about to collapse.” (SAC ¶ 10.) These do not constitute
conclusory allegations without any factual basis. Plaintiffs support their
claims of oppressive and malicious conduct with Defendants’ ignoring the
warnings and citations from the City which preceded and foretold the eventual
collapse.
 
Defendants further
argue that their alleged failure to head the warnings and citations from the City
does not constitute despicable conduct under Mock. Contrary to
Defendants’ assertions, such conduct is potentially despicable. If Defendants
were aware of an imminent landslide risk as Plaintiffs allege, then they knew
that Plaintiffs were in physical danger. Defendants’ failure to heed warnings from
officials, and placing lives in danger as a result, could prove despicable to a
jury, justifying punitive damages. Thus, Plaintiffs have pled sufficient facts
to warrant a claim for punitive damages. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike is denied.