  Case Number:  21STCV02826    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial Date, filed by Plaintiff Heather
Vanian.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is GRANTED.
 
Background
On January 22,
2021, Plaintiff Heather Vanian (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Jonathan A. Hoenig, M.D., Jonathan Hoenig, M.D. Surgery Center, LLC, and Does 1
through 50, asserting the cause of action for Negligence, medical, from surgery
occurring on November 20, 2019.
 
On December 14,
2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to continue the trial. No opposition has been
filed.
 
Legal
Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets
forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether
good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such
as:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff and Defendant have agreed to the trial continuance, as a
stipulation signed by the parties is attached as Exhibit 1.
Plaintiff has had multiple
surgeries, and is scheduled for at least one more procedure in the upcoming
months. (Hoffman Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff contends she will be healed and ready
to try her case in late 2024. (Id.)
Plaintiff is paying for surgeries out her pocket and has incurred expenses in
six figures to address her injuries. (Id.) Trial is
current scheduled for May 8, 2024. (Motion, 5:13.)
No opposition has been filed.
The Court finds that Plaintiff has made a showing of good cause to
continue the trial date to give Plaintiff adequate time to complete her medical
procedures and recover from her surgery. 
Based on the agreement of the parties, and for good cause shown, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Continue is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The Motion to
Continue is GRANTED.
The date of
trial is advanced and continued to approximately January 20, 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 