 Case Number:  24STCV13275    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  11 Saidi (24STCV13275)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
Date:                         1/16/25
Time:                        11:00
am
Moving Party:          LAX Auto Center dba LAX Automotive
(“Defendant”)
Opposing Party:       Adrien Saidi (“Plaintiff”)
Department:             11
Judge:                       David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is denied.
 
Plaintiff’s
request for costs is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff used to
work for Defendant.  He alleges that
Defendant subjected him and other current and former employees to numerous
wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, Defendant
moves to compel arbitration.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
applied for employment in May 2023 and was eventually hired in December
2023.  (See Makerian Decl., ¶¶ 3, 10, Ex.
A, p. 4.) During the application process, Plaintiff e-signed a document titled
“APPLICANT STATEMENT AND AGREEMENT[.]” 
(Id. at Ex. A, p. 1, emphasis in original.)  The document contains an arbitration
agreement.  (See id. at Ex. A, pp. 1-4.)
 
The
arbitration agreement is attached to the declaration of Defendant’s manager of
human resources, Annie Makerian, at exhibit A. 
It states:
 
APPLICANT STATEMENT AND AGREEMENT
 
IMPORTANT-READ CAREFULLY
CONTAINS A BINDING ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
 
1. In the event of my employment to a position in this
Company, I will comply with all rules and regulations of this Company. I
understand that the Company reserves the right to require me to submit to a
test for the presence of drugs in my system prior to employment and at any time
during my employment, to the extent permitted by law. I also understand that
any offer of employment may be contingent upon the passing of a physical
examination. Further, I understand that at any time after I am hired, the Company
may require me to submit to an alcohol test, to the extent permitted by law. I
consent to the disclosure of the results of any physical examination and tests
results to the Company. I also understand that I may be required to take other
tests such as personality and honesty tests prior to employment and during my
employment. I understand that should I decline to sign this consent or decline
to take any of the above tests, my application for employment may be rejected
or my employment may be terminated. I understand that bonding may be a
condition of hire. If it is, I will be so advised either before or after hiring
and a bond application will have to be completed. I hereby authorize the
Company with which I have applied for employment to share my Application for
Employment with other affiliated companies/employers, and hereby agree that all
terms, conditions and/or agreements contained in this Applicant's Statement and
Agreement, or any other documents pertaining to my application for employment,
shall be enforceable by me and by such other companies/employers (including
their managers, employees and agents), even though I have not signed a separate
Applicant's Statement and Agreement for those other companies/employers. 
 
2. By signing below, I acknowledge that the Company may
contact my previous employers and I authorize those employers to disclose to
the Company all records and information pertinent to my employment with them.
In addition to authorizing the release of any information regarding my
employment, I hereby fully waive any rights or claims I have or may have
against my former employers, their agents, employees and representatives, as
well as other individuals who release information to the Company, and release them
from any and all liability, claims, or damages that may directly or indirectly
result from the use, disclosure, or release of any such information by any
person or party, whether such information is favorable or unfavorable to me. I
authorize the persons named herein as personal references to provide the
Company with any pertinent information they may have regarding myself. I
further understand that as a condition of employment, I may be required to
complete additional documentation which would permit the Company and its
designated investigative Consumer Reporting Agency to conduct an investigation
of my background, which may include inquiry into my past employment, education,
and activities, including, but not limited to, credit, criminal background information
and driving record. 
 
3. By signing my name below and/or by accepting and/or
continuing employment with the Company, I agree to pursue any claims I might
have against the Company that currently exist or that may arise in the future
exclusively through binding arbitration; similarly, the Company agrees to
pursue any claims it might have against me that currently exist or that may
arise in the future exclusively through binding arbitration. The only
exceptions to this requirement are identified in Paragraph 5, below. Our
agreement to submit all claims to binding arbitration includes any claims that
either of us may have against any third-party beneficiaries as mentioned below.
By agreeing to binding arbitration, we waive our rights to have any and all
claims decided in an administrative hearing, in a judge/bench trial, and/or in
a jury trial. I understand that our only recourse for pursuing claims is
through binding arbitration according to the rules set forth herein and/or
those rules incorporated by reference in this agreement. I understand I have
the right to arrange for an attorney to represent me or to represent myself
during the arbitration proceedings. I understand that neither I nor the Company
may later decide that one of us does not want to arbitrate all such claims. 
 
4. I understand that this agreement requires me to pursue
all claims I bring against the Company (and any third-party beneficiaries)
through binding arbitration and requires that the Company submit any claims it
has against me to binding arbitration (except for those claims specifically
excluded by this agreement). Our agreement to arbitrate includes any and all claims
which arise out of the employment context or any other interaction/relationship
we had, have or may have in the future. Those claims include, but are not
limited to, any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that either party brings
against the other (including, but not limited to, any claims of discrimination
and harassment, whether they be based on the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, as amended, claims pursuant to the California Private Attorneys
General Act ("PAGA") unless prohibited by controlling law, as well as
all other applicable state or federal laws or regulations) which would
otherwise require or allow resort to any court or other governmental dispute
resolution forum between myself and the Company, as well as any third-party
beneficiaries of the Company. Third-party beneficiaries include the Company's
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, partners, attorneys,
sister-companies, subsidiaries, parent companies, joint-venturers, affiliated
persons/entities, independent contractors, and parties affiliated with its
employee benefit and health plans. These claims also include any claims arising
from, related to, or having any relationship or connection whatsoever with my
seeking employment with, employment by, or other association with the Company
or third-party beneficiaries, whether based on tort, contract, statute, equity
or otherwise. 
 
5. As the sole exceptions to the obligation to arbitrate
our claims, I and the Company both agree that we do not have to arbitrate
claims arising under the National Labor Relations Act which are brought before
the National Labor Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits
under the California Workers' Compensation Act, Employment Development
Department claims and, at your option, claims involving Sexual Harassment
and/or Sexual Assault Disputes. Sexual Assault Dispute means a dispute involving
the allegation of a nonconsensual sexual act or nonconsensual sexual contact.
The term Sexual Harassment Dispute means a dispute relating to allegations of
unwelcome sexual advances, unwanted physical contact that is sexual in nature,
unwanted sexual attention (including unwanted sexual comments and propositions
for sexual activity), conditioning employment-related benefits on sexual
activity, and retaliation for rejecting unwanted sexual attention. If you
signed this arbitration agreement prior to the time · that your dispute first
arose, you have the right to elect whether or not to proceed to arbitration
regarding the Sexual Harassment/Sexual Assault Disputes. If you choose not to
proceed to arbitration on such claims, then you agree to arbitrate all other
arbitrable claims and to stay Sexual Harassment/Sexual Assault Dispute claims
pending the completion of the arbitration proceedings. I understand and agree
that nothing in this agreement precludes me from filing any administrative
claim/charge with, or from participating in any investigation/administrative
proceeding conducted by government agencies such as the Department of Fair
Employment and Housing, the California Labor Commissioner and/or the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission. However, after I exhaust such administrative
process/investigation, I understand and agree that I must pursue any such
claims through binding arbitration for any final adjudication/award. 
 
6. I acknowledge that the Company's business and the
nature of my employment in that business affect interstate commerce. Thus, I
agree that this agreement and my employment are governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act (FM) (9 United States Code sec. 1, et seq). The binding
arbitration proceedings shall be governed by the rules listed herein or as
supplemented by the Federal Arbitration Act and/or the procedures of the
California Arbitration Act (California Code of Civil Procedure sec. 1280 et
seq., including sec. 1283.05 and all of the California Arbitration Act's other
mandatory and permissive rights to discovery). The arbitrator shall have the
same authority as a state or federal court would have to issue subpoenas to
third parties for production of documents and for depositions, in addition to
subpoenas to appear at any arbitration hearing. The California Arbitration Act
shall only control the arbitration proceedings to the extent it is consistent
with this agreement and/or the Federal Arbitration Act. 
 
7. In addition to requirements imposed by law, any
arbitrator herein shall be a retired state Superior Court or federal District
Court judge and shall be subject to disqualification on the same grounds as
would apply to a California Superior Court judge. The arbitrator shall have the
immunity of a judicial officer from civil liability when acting in the capacity
of an arbitrator, If applicable, all rules of pleading (including the right of
demurrer), all rules of evidence, all rights to resolution of the dispute by
means of motions for summary judgment, judgment on the pleadings, and judgment
under the Code of Civil Procedure section 631.8, that would apply in court or
in an administrative proceeding where the actual claims would otherwise have
been brought shall apply in the arbitration proceeding. The arbitrator shall
apply only the law governing the claims and defenses pleaded, and the
arbitrator may not invoke any basis (including, but not limited to, notions of “just
cause”) other than such controlling law to determine the dispute. The
arbitrator shall have the authority to fashion the arbitration proceeding and
the award to preserve any special protections afforded by the laws governing
the claims. All communications during or in connection with the arbitration
proceedings are privileged in accordance with California Civil Code sec. 47(b).
The arbitrator shall have the right to extend the times set by the California
Arbitration Act for the giving of notices and setting of hearings. Awards shall
include the arbitrator's written reasoned opinion. 
 
8. I understand that in most all circumstances the
Company will pay all costs and arbitrator fees unique to the arbitration as
required by controlling case law, such as for statutory claims for unpaid
wages, discrimination, harassment, retaliation, etc. However, there are some
instances where the costs of arbitration will be split between the parties as
set forth in the California Arbitration Act, such as where the Company brings a
claim against me for violation of trade secret rules, conflicts of interest, or
other similar claims. The costs of arbitration may also be split unless the
claims you bring involve unwaivable statutory rights where the controlling case
law requires that the Company pay such costs (e.g., if you bring a breach of
contract claim against the Company such fees may be split). You will not be
required to share in any costs unique to arbitration until the arbitrator makes
a specific ruling at the outset of the arbitration process that the claims at
issue require you to share any portion of the cost of arbitration. It is
further agreed that the Company shall not be responsible for paying the
arbitrator's fees and costs for the arbitration hearing sooner than 60 days
before the commencement of the arbitration hearing. 
 
9. I agree that the arbitrator only has the authority to
hear and adjudicate my individual claims and that the arbitrator does not have
the authority to make the arbitration proceeding a class, representative or
collective action, or to award relief to a group of employees in one
proceeding, including claims brought pursuant to PAGA. This arbitration
agreement shall not be construed to permit the consolidation or joinder of
claims of other claimants, or to permit such claims to proceed as a class,
representative or collective action (collectively "class claims"). I
and the Company both agree that any challenge to the prohibition against
consolidating the claims of others into a single proceeding, whether as a
class, a collective action or otherwise, is a gateway issue and shall be
determined by the trial court; and any substantive claims shall not be decided
by the arbitrator until after the gateway determination is made by the court.
By signing below, you expressly waive the right to bring a class, collective,
representative or PAGA claim (unless prohibited by controlling law) seeking any
relief on behalf of others. Both the Company and I agree that any arbitration
proceeding must move forward under the FAA (9 U.S.C. sections 3-4) even though
the claims brought in court or otherwise may name, involve and/or relate to
persons/entities who are not parties to the arbitration agreement and/or claims
that are not subject to arbitration (such as PAGA). Thus, the court may not
refuse to enforce this arbitration agreement and may not stay the arbitration
proceeding despite the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure sec. 1281.2(c)
and shall instead sever and stay the non-arbitrable claims pending the final
adjudication of the arbitrable claims. 
 
10. I understand that all I have to do to begin the
arbitration process is to send a letter by United States Postal Service
Certified Mail with Return Receipt requested to the Owner(s) of the Company,
the President of the Company if the Company is a corporation, or the General
Manager of the dealership stating that I have legal claims against the Company
and/or any third-party beneficiaries, the nature of the legal claims and that I
demand to pursue them via binding arbitration. I understand that my letter must
be post-marked prior to the expiration of any statute of limitations that
applies to my claims. The Company may similarly commence claims against you by
making a similar demand and sending it to you in the same manner. The Company
and you will engage in an interactive discussion to try to agree upon an
arbitrator, and if an arbitrator cannot be mutually chosen, either party may
petition the Superior Court to appoint an arbitrator pursuant to the California
Arbitration Act (Code of Civil Procedure sec. 1281.6). I understand that I and
the Company will be required to provide more details regarding my claims and
causes of action after starting the arbitration process. The arbitrator will
also set the timing for the Company to file and serve any responsive pleadings.

 
11. I further understand that I will not be disciplined,
discharged, or otherwise retaliated against for exercising my rights under the
National Labor Relations Act, including but not limited to challenging the
limitation on a class, collective, representative, or joint action. 
 
12. If any term or provision, or portion of this
agreement, is declared void or unenforceable, it shall be severed and the
remainder of this agreement shall be enforceable. Notwithstanding the same, the
prohibition on the arbitrator hearing class claims and/or collective claims
shall not be severable. 
 
13. This is the entire agreement between the Company and
me regarding dispute resolution and this agreement supersedes any and all prior
agreements regarding this issue to the extent that they differ from the
foregoing. It is further agreed and understood that any agreement contrary to
the foregoing must be entered into, in writing, by both the Owner(s) and/or
President of the Company and me. Oral promises shall not serve to modify and/or
cancel this agreement. 
 
14.1 UNDERSTAND THAT I AM GIVING UP THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY
JURY, BY A SITTING TRIAL COURT JUDGE AND/OR BY FINAL ADJUDICATION THROUGH AN
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS BY AGREEING TO BINDING ARBITRATION. 
 
15. I hereby state that all the information that I provided
on this application or any other documents filled out in connection with my
seeking employment, and in any interview is true and correct. I have withheld
nothing that would, if disclosed, affect this application unfavorably. I
understand that if I am employed and any such information is later found to be
false or incomplete in any respect, I may be discharged from employment. 
 
16. I agree as follows: My employment and compensation
are terminable at will, are for no definite period, and my employment and
compensation may be terminated by the Company (employer) at any time and for
any reason whatsoever, with or without good cause at the option of either the
Company or myself. Consequently, all terms and conditions of my employment,
with the exception of the arbitration agreement, may be changed or withdrawn at
Company's unrestricted option at any time, with or without good cause. No
implied, oral or written agreements contrary to the express language of this
agreement are valid unless they are in writing and signed by the President of
the Company (or majority owner or owners if Company is not a corporation). No
supervisor or representative of the Company, other than the President of the
Company (or major owner or owners if Company is not a corporation), has any
authority to make any agreements contrary to the foregoing. This agreement is
the entire agreement between the Company and the employee regarding the rights
of the Company or employee to terminate employment with or without good cause
arid this agreement takes the place. of all prior and contemporaneous
agreements, representations, and understandings of the employee and the Company.

 
17. If you have any questions regarding this statement,
please ask a Company representative before signing. I hereby acknowledge that I
have read the above statements and understand the same. 
 
MY SIGNATURE BELOW ATTESTS TO THE FACT THAT I HAVE BEEN
GIVEN AN OPPORTUNITY TO READ AND CONSIDER THIS AGREEMENT, AND THAT I HAVE READ,
UNDERSTAND, AND AGREE TO BE LEGALLY BOUND BY ALL OF THE ABOVE TERMS. I AGREE
THAT THE COMPANY IS BINDING ITSELF TO THIS AGREEMENT BY PRESENTING THIS
AGREEMENT TO ME FOR SIGNATURE. 
 
DO NOT SIGN UNTIL YOU HAVE READ THE ABOVE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
AND AGREEMENT.
 
(Ibid.,
emphasis in original.)
 
The
Court should find Defendant’s burden satisfied because:
 
*
facts and terms like these suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate;
 
* it
is undisputed that Plaintiff e-signed the agreement; and
 
*
assent is uncontested.
 
FAA
 
Defendant asserts that the FAA controls because the agreement expressly states
that the FAA governs and that Plaintiff engaged in interstate commerce.  (See Reply, p. 10.)
 
Plaintiff
contends Defendant’s evidence fails to show a connection between interstate
commerce and Plaintiff’s job duties. 
(See Opposition, pp. 15-17.)
 
The
Court agrees with Defendant.  The FAA
applies if the agreement’s wording says it applies or if “the underlying
contract facilitates interstate commercial transactions or directly or
indirectly affects commerce between states.”  (Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:50.2, emphasis in
original.)  Sections 6 and 9 of
Defendant’s agreement state not only that the FAA governs but also that Plaintiff
agrees that “the Company’s business and the nature of [Plaintiff’s] employment
in that business affect interstate commerce.”  (Makerian Decl., Ex. A, p. 2, § 6, emphasis
added; see also id. at Ex. A, p. 3, § 9.) 
These words render the FAA applicable.
 
Unconscionability
and Enforcement
 
Plaintiff claims the agreement is
unconscionable.  (See Opposition, pp.
6-13.)
 
Unconscionability
is a contract defense.  (See Torrecillas
v. Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485,
492.)  Under the FAA, unconscionability
can be utilized to “invalidate [an] arbitration agreement[].”  (Ibid.) 
Courts apply state law to test whether the agreement is
unconscionable.  (See, e.g., Lagatree
v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th
1105, 1119.)
 
“[U]nconscionability
has both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly
harsh or one-sided results.”  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.”  (Ibid.)  “But they need not be present in the same
degree.”  (Ibid.)  “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.”  (Ibid.) 
“In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Ibid.)
 
For
procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff contends the agreement constitutes a
contract of adhesion.  (See, Opposition,
pp. 7-8.)
 
“[A]
predispute arbitration agreement is not invalid merely because it is imposed as
a condition of employment.”  (Lagatree
v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105,
1122–1123.)  Stated another way, “the
mandatory nature of an arbitration agreement does not, by itself, render the
agreement unenforceable.”  (Ibid.; see
also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion contract is involved
does not per se render the arbitration clause unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts are ‘an inevitable
fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer alike.’”], emphasis in
original.)
 
Moreover,
the agreement states:
 
MY SIGNATURE BELOW ATTESTS TO THE FACT THAT I HAVE BEEN
GIVEN AN OPPORTUNITY TO READ AND CONSIDER THIS AGREEMENT, AND THAT I HAVE READ,
UNDERSTAND, AND AGREE TO BE LEGALLY BOUND BY ALL OF THE ABOVE TERMS. I AGREE
THAT THE COMPANY IS BINDING ITSELF TO THIS AGREEMENT BY PRESENTING THIS
AGREEMENT TO ME FOR SIGNATURE. 
 
DO NOT SIGN UNTIL YOU HAVE READ THE ABOVE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
AND AGREEMENT.  
 
(Makerian
Decl., Ex. A, p. 4.)
 
Accordingly,
the degree of procedural unconscionability is low.
 
Substantive
unconscionability is the opposite story.
 
Plaintiff argues that the
agreement is infinite in scope and duration and lacks mutuality.  He cites Cook
v. University of Southern California (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 312
as support.  (See Opposition, pp. 8-10.)
 
Defendant contends Cook is
distinguishable.  (See Reply, pp. 7-9.)
 
Cook is a May 2024 decision from the Second District
Court of Appeal.  There, the trial court
found the arbitration agreement substantively unconscionable in three ways and
held that the unconscionable provisions could not be severed.  The Second District affirmed all three
points.  First, the panel found the scope
unconscionable because the agreement covered all claims, not just
employment-related claims.  (See Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 321-325.) 
Second, the duration was unconscionable because the agreement stated
that it would survive Cook’s employment and could only be “revoked” if Cook and
USC’s president signed a written termination request that “expressly
mention[ed] the arbitration agreement.” 
(Id. at 326; see also id. at 325.) 
Third, the agreement lacked mutuality because it “require[d] Cook to
arbitrate . . . all claims she [] ha[d] against USC” and USC’s “related
entities” without requiring the “‘related entities’ to arbitrate their claims
against [her].”  (Id. at 326; see also
id. at 327-328.)
 
The linchpin in Cook was
that the scope was unlimited.  (See id. at
321-325.)  It was the overbroad scope
that made the other defects (duration and mutuality) troublesome.
 
On balance, the Court finds Cook
analogous because Defendant’s agreement appears to have two of the same
defects, perhaps all three:
 
SCOPE – “[b]y its express terms,”
the Cook agreement covered “all claims, whether or not arising out of
Employee’s University employment, remuneration or termination, that Employee
may have against the University or any of its related entities . . . ; and all
claims that the University may have against Employee.”  (Cook, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th
at 321.)  “The plain language of the
agreement require[d] Cook to arbitrate claims that [were] unrelated to her
employment with USC.”  (Ibid.; see also
id. at 325 [“The arbitration agreement drafted by USC applies to all claims ‘whether
or not arising out of Employee's University employment, remuneration or
termination.’ If USC had been concerned about capturing termination or
retaliation claims related to Cook’s employment, it simply could have limited
the scope of the agreement to claims arising out of or relating to her
employment or termination. It is difficult to see how it is justified to expect
Cook—as a condition of her employment at the university—to give up the right to
ever sue a USC employee in court for defamatory statements or other claims that
are completely unrelated to Cook's employment.”].)  
 
Defendant’s agreement also covers
claims unrelated to employment:
 
4. I understand that
this agreement requires me to pursue all claims I bring against the Company
(and any third-party beneficiaries) through binding arbitration and requires
that the Company submit any claims it has against me to binding arbitration (
except for those claims specifically excluded by this agreement). Our
agreement to arbitrate includes any and all claims which arise out of the
employment context or any other interaction/relationship we had, have or may
have in the future. Those claims include, but are not limited to, any
claim, dispute, and/or controversy that either party brings against the other
(including, but not limited to, any claims of discrimination and harassment,
whether they be based on the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the
Americans With Disabilities Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, claims pursuant to the California Private Attorneys General Act
("PAGA") unless prohibited by controlling law, as well as all other
applicable state or federal laws or regulations) which would otherwise require
or allow resort to any court or other governmental dispute resolution forum
between myself and the Company, as well as any third-party beneficiaries of the
Company. Third-party beneficiaries include the Company's owners, directors,
officers, managers, employees, agents, partners, attorneys, sister-companies,
subsidiaries, parent companies, joint-venturers, affiliated persons/entities,
independent contractors, and parties affiliated with its employee benefit and
health plans. These claims also include any claims arising from, related to, or
having any relationship or connection whatsoever with my seeking employment
with, employment by, or other association with the Company or third-party
beneficiaries, whether based on tort, contract, statute, equity or otherwise.
 
(Makerian
Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1-2, § 4, emphasis added.)[1]
 
DURATION – to repeat, the Second
District found the duration of the USC agreement unconscionable because it
expressly survived Cook’s employment and could only be “revoked” if Cook and
USC’s president signed a written termination request that “expressly mention[ed]
the arbitration agreement.”  (Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 326.) 

 
Defendant’s agreement does not
say that it survives termination, but such survival seems implied since the
agreement covers claims that “may arise in the future[.]”  (Makerian Decl., Ex. A, p. 2, § 3 [“I agree
to pursue any claims I might have against the Company that currently exist or
that may arise in the future exclusively through binding
arbitration; similarly, the Company agrees to pursue any claims it might have
against me that currently exist or that may arise in the future
exclusively through binding arbitration.”], emphasis added; see also id. at Ex.
A, p. 2, § 4 [“Our agreement to arbitrate includes any and all claims which
arise out of the employment context or any other interaction/relationship we
had, have or may have in the future.”], emphasis added.)
 
At minimum, the duration is
indefinite.
 
Plus, section 13 provides:
 
13. This is the
entire agreement between the Company and me regarding dispute resolution and
this agreement supersedes any and all prior agreements regarding this issue to
the extent that they differ from the foregoing. It is further agreed and
understood that any agreement contrary to the foregoing must be entered into,
in writing, by both the Owner(s) and/or President of the Company and me.
Oral promises shall not serve to modify and/or cancel this agreement.
 
(Id. at Ex. A, p. 3, § 13,
emphasis added.)  Functionally, the
emphasized words require a written agreement between the parties to amend or
modify.
 
MUTUALITY – Cook states:
 
The trial court also
found the agreement was unconscionable because it lacked mutuality. The
agreement requires Cook to arbitrate any and all claims she may have against
USC “or any of its related entities, including but not limited to faculty
practice plans, or its or their officers, trustees, administrators, employees
or agents, in their capacity as such or otherwise.” However, the agreement does
not require USC's “related entities” to arbitrate their claims against Cook.
 
* * *
 
Under Armendariz,
a modicum of bilaterality is required in arbitration agreements. Still, nothing
in Armendariz supports the conclusion that the presence of a
modicum of bilaterality renders an agreement per se conscionable. The presence
of a modicum of bilaterality will not save a clause that is, in practical
effect, unjustifiably one-sided. There is no question that it is more difficult
for a party to enforce an arbitration agreement against a nonsignatory than it
is for a nonsignatory to enforce an arbitration agreement against a party. This
is intentional, as arbitration is “a voluntary means of resolving disputes, and
this voluntariness has been its bedrock justification.” [Citation.] “Arbitration
is consensual in nature. The fundamental assumption of arbitration is that it
may be invoked as an alternative to the settlement of disputes by means other
than the judicial process solely because all parties have chosen to arbitrate
them. [Citations.] Even the strong public policy in favor of arbitration does not
extend to those who are not parties to an arbitration agreement or who have not
authorized anyone to act for them in executing such an agreement.” [Citation.]
 
As a result,
nonsignatories may enforce an arbitration agreement against a party to the
agreement simply by showing they are intended third-party beneficiaries of the
arbitration agreement. [Citation.] Where the agreement requires arbitration of
claims against certain classes of third parties, nonsignatories can make “a
prima facie showing sufficient to allow them to enforce the arbitration clause
as third party beneficiaries” simply by showing they fall within one of the
classes of beneficiaries identified by the contract. [Citation.]
 
Conversely, for Cook
to enforce the arbitration agreement against USC's agents or employees as
third-party beneficiaries, she would have to show they actually accepted a
benefit under the agreement. [Citation.] It is difficult to imagine how Cook
could carry this burden to compel USC's employees and agents to arbitration
unless those specific agents or employees first moved to compel arbitration
under the agreement. While it is theoretically possible for Cook to make this
showing, it is unlikely. [Citation.]
 
The plain language
of the arbitration agreement thus provides a significant benefit to USC's
related entities without any reciprocal benefit to Cook.
 
USC has offered no
justification for this one-sided treatment. [Citation.] We find the trial court
did not err in holding the arbitration agreement was substantively
unconscionable for lack of mutuality in the claims that are subject to
arbitration.
 
(Cook, supra, 102
Cal.App.5th at 326, 327-328, underlined case names added.)  
 
Likewise, Defendant’s agreement
states:
 
3. By signing my
name below and/or by accepting and/or continuing employment with the Company, I
agree to pursue any claims I might have against the Company that currently
exist or that may arise in the future exclusively through binding arbitration;
similarly, the Company agrees to pursue any claims it might have against me
that currently exist or that may arise in the future exclusively through
binding arbitration. . . . Our agreement to submit all claims to binding
arbitration includes any claims that either of us may have against any third-party
beneficiaries as mentioned below. . . .
 
4. I understand that
this agreement requires me to pursue all claims I bring against the Company
(and any third-party beneficiaries) through binding
arbitration and requires that the Company submit any claims it has against me
to binding arbitration (except for those claims specifically excluded by this
agreement). . . . Third-party beneficiaries include the
Company’s owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, partners,
attorneys, sister-companies, subsidiaries, parent companies, joint-venturers,
affiliated persons/entities, independent contractors, and parties affiliated
with its employee benefit and health plans. . . .
 
(Makerian Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1, 2,
§§ 3, 4, emphasis added.)  The
third-party beneficiaries are related to Defendant.  Plaintiff’s obligation to arbitrate his
claims against them is a one-way obligation; they do not need to arbitrate
their claims against him.  
 
The final question is whether
these defects can be severed.  The answer
is no (see Cook, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 328-330), so the
agreement is unenforceable, and the motion to compel must be denied.[2]
 
Class Claims and Stay
Request
 
Defendant’s request to strike the
class claims and request to stay the case pending arbitration are denied.
 
Costs
 
The parties agree that the
prevailing party on this motion is entitled to costs pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1293.2.  (See Motion,
pp. 8-9; see also Opposition, pp. 18-19.)
 
The Court did find a few Court of
Appeal decisions, some unpublished, that indicate that costs can be recovered
by the prevailing party.  (See Velasquez
v. Khushf, 2007 WL 3409394, at *5 [First District stating that “[s]ection
1293.2 provides that a court shall costs upon any judicial proceeding
relating to arbitration, which may include judicial proceedings to enforce an
arbitration agreement (§§ 1281-1281.6) and postarbitration enforcement of the
award (§ 1285)”], emphasis in original; see also Meyers v. Fitzgerald,
2009 WL 3981552, at *5 [Sixth District recognizing that “a ‘petition to compel
arbitration under section 1281.2 is a judicial proceeding covered by [section
12932.2]’”]; Heimlich v. Shivji (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 152,
161-162 [Sixth District noting that “[s]ection 12932.2 has been the basis for
awarding litigation costs to parties who succeeded in resisting motions to
compel arbitration”]; Otay River Constructors v. San Diego Expressway(2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 796, 807-808 [Fourth District finding that owner who
successfully defeated general contractor’s motion to compel arbitration was a
prevailing party and could recover costs].)
 
Considering these authorities,
the Court intends to award Plaintiff the costs attributable to filing the
opposition.  At the hearing, the Court
will give Plaintiff’s counsel an opportunity to make an offer of proof as to
the amount.
 
 


