 Case Number:  23AVCV00376    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff
Andre Farmer (“Plaintiff”) alleges that, on or about December 08, 2019, he
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant General Motors LLC
(“Defendant”) regarding a 2017 Chevrolet Volt with the vehicle identification
number 1G1RC6S53HU104098 (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was manufactured and/or
distributed by GM. Plaintiff states that the warranty contract contained
various warranties, including but not limited to: bumper-bumper warranty,
powertrain warranty, emission warranty. Plaintiff contends (1) defects and nonconformities
occurred during the express warranty period, including but not limited to,
battery defects, engine defects, electrical defects, transmission defects, and
infotainment defects; and (2) that Defendant knew (or should have known) that
the battery system in the Subject Vehicle had one or more defects which could
lead to various problems and Defendant failed to disclose such knowledge to
him. Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant had a duty promptly offer to
repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle at the time if it failed to conform
the Subject Vehicle to the terms of the express warranty after a reasonable
number of repair attempts; and Defendant failed to either promptly replace the
Subject Vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with the
Song-Beverly Act and the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. 
 
On April 06, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint, alleging six causes of action for: (1) Violation of Cal.
Civ. Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2(A)(3); (4) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Merchantability (Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5); (5) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment; and (6) Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. 
 
On May 08, 2023, defense counsel
Ryan Kay (“Kay”) filed a declaration, indicating an extension to the filing
date of a response under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2). 
 
On June 07, 2023, Defendant filed
this Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
On September 06, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the same causes of action as
the Complaint.
 
On October 05, 2023, GM filed its
Demurrer and Motion to Strike to the FAC. 
 
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition.
 
No Reply has been filed. “. . .[A]ll
reply papers [shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party] at
least five court days before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) “Section
1013, which extends the time within which a right may be exercised or an act
may be done, does not apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or
reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.) The hearing is set for
December 12, 2023. Accordingly, a Reply was due by December 05, 2023. Should a
Reply be filed, it is now untimely. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.  (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.  (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)  Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to
allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by
the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be
taken.  (Vance v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates (1995)
36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)  A general demurrer does not admit contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p.
318.)       
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by
amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
----- 
 
Standard for
Motion to Strike – The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.
§ 437.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
----- 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or
moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc. §430.41 and §435.5.)¿ The Court notes that
Kay declares he conferred telephonically with Plaintiff’s counsel; however, no
agreement was reached. (Decl. Kay ¶ 2.)  
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
       
i.           
Demurrer
 
Defendant demurs only to the
Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment). 
 
First, Defendant argues that the
three-year statute of limitations for fraud bars Plaintiff’s claim. Defendant
highlights that, based on the alleged date of the purchase of the Subject
Vehicle, Plaintiff had to file his claim no later than December 08, 2022[1]
and that Plaintiff did not do this, instead filing his Complaint on April 06,
2023. Defendant presents that: (1) Plaintiff cannot invoke the delayed
discovery rule because Plaintiff affirmatively states that the alleged
“[d]efects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable
express warranty period” (FAC ¶ 11), and (2) because of this statement, the
delayed discovery rule does not apply. 
 
Plaintiff argues that his fraud
claim is timely as the statute of limitations did not begin to run as of the
date that the Subject Vehicle was purchased and, even if it had, the discovery
rule, equitable estoppel doctrine, repair rule, and/or class action tolling
(i.e., the American Pipe rule) apply. 
 
It appears that Defendant’s
calculations do not include the tolling period due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The
COVID-19 Emergency Rules for tolling, Specifically Emergency Rule 9, tolled
civil actions with statute of limitations exceeding 180 days from April 6,
2020, until October 1, 2020 and is inapplicable to this case. (See California
Courts, Emergency Rules Related to COVID-19 < https://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/appendix-i.pdf>
[as of November 29, 2023].) This is applicable to the action as: (1) the
Subject Vehicle was purchased on December 08, 2019, and (2) the statute of
limitations for fraud actions is three years or 1,095 days. (See Complaint ¶ 6;
see also Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 338(d).) Accordingly, three years plus the
tolling for the COVID-19 pandemic places the last date for filing the
Complaint, had Plaintiff been aware of the defects on the day of purchase of
the Subject Vehicle, on Saturday, June 03, 2023. “Unless otherwise provided by
law, if the last day for the performance of any act that is required by these
rules to be performed within a specific period of time falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or other legal holiday, the period is extended to and includes the next
day that is not a holiday.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 1.10(b).) Accordingly,
the last date for filing the Complaint in this action with all calculations,
using the date of the Subject Vehicle purchase is June 05, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff filed his Complaint on
April 06, 2023. The Court need not discuss the delayed discovery rule, repair
doctrine tolling, or class action tolling as Plaintiff’s action has been timely
brought.  
 
Next, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is not pled with the requisite specificity.
Defendant presents that Plaintiff has failed to allege (i) the identity of the
individuals at Defendant who purportedly concealed material facts or made
untrue representations about the Subject Vehicle, (ii) their authority to speak
and act on behalf of Defendant, (iii) Defendant’s knowledge about alleged
defects in the Subject Vehicle  at the
time of purchase, (iv) any interactions with Defendant before or during the
purchase of the Volt, or (v) Defendant’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff
to purchase the Subject Vehicle as is.  
 
Plaintiff argues that his FAC
contains all the elements necessary for a fraud claim, highlighting that, in
fraud through non-disclosure, “it is not practical to allege facts showing how,
when and by what means something did not happen.” (Opp. 7:16-17 [citing Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System Planning Assn. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384].) Plaintiff emphasizes that where a defendant
necessarily possesses full information concerning the facts of the controversy,
less particularity is required. Plaintiff highlights Dhital v. Nissan N.
Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (“Dhital”), its holding, and
presents that he has pled all elements required under Dhital.
 
Regarding specificity, “[l]ess
specificity is required when it ‘appears from the nature of the allegations
that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the
facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 [quoting Bradley v.
Hartford Acc.& Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825].) The
specificity requirement is greatly relaxed or eliminated under circumstances
where the defendant must necessarily possess superior information of the fraud.
(Id., at 216-217; see also Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d
205, 212-213.)
 
Plaintiff
has alleged that “[Defendant] knew since 2016 that the model year 2017 or newer
Chevrolet Volt EV vehicles, including 2017 Chevrolet Volt vehicles such as the
Subject Vehicle . . ., contained one or more design and/or manufacturing
defects in the battery. . .[;]” and that (1) “on November 13, 2020, GM issued
NHTSA Recall No. 20V-701/GM Recall No. N202311730, as an interim remedy. The
repair procedure calls for dealers to program the hybrid propulsion control
module 2 (HPCM2) to limit full charge of the battery to 90%. The revised
software is intended to limit the vehicle’s full charge to 90% of the battery
capacity[,]” (FAC ¶ 36)and (2) “[o]n July 14, 2021, even for those that had the
Recall performed, GM instructed owners and lessees of these Chevy Vehicles to
“park their vehicles outside away from homes and other structures immediately
after charging and…not leave their vehicles charging overnight” (FAC ¶ 37). The
Court notes that no citation has been provided for the quote in paragraph 37 of
the FAC. However, a reasonable inference can be drawn from the recall, the
number of which Plaintiff has provided, that Defendant must necessarily possess
superior information.
 
The Court
notes that, at this time, the California Supreme Court has granted
review of Dhital. As such, the Dhital holding may be cited only
for persuasive value. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115(e)(1).) The Court
believes that its analysis, ante, sufficiently addresses the concerns of
the parties without a discussion of Dhital.
 
Finally, Defendant argues that the Fraud
claim fails as Plaintiff does not allege a transactional relationship between
the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose. That is, Defendant argues
that, absent a fiduciary relationship, a duty to disclose can only arise in
three circumstances under case law – (1) the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the
material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also
suppressing the material fact – and that these three circumstances only arise
from direct dealings which is absent in this case. (See Bigler-Engler v.
Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276 (“Bigler-Engler”); LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 (“LiMandri”.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that under California law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material
facts not only to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when
the vendor has reason to expect that the item will be resold, so, likewise,
that a manufacturer should have such a duty. Plaintiff next discusses Dhital
to highlight that, at the pleading stage, his allegations are sufficient. Plaintiff
addresses the LiMandri principles presenting that Plaintiff entered into
a warranty contract directly with Defendant and that Defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the battery defect and the battery defect (1) is a material fact,
(2) posed safety risks, and (3) arose during the warranty period. 
 
The Court
notes that the LiMandri holding has been questioned by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, but not California courts and, as such,
remains binding on this Court.
 
Bigler-Engler
emphasizes the LiMandri principles, but goes further to include another
case precedent:
 
This
court examined the circumstances giving rise to a duty to disclose in LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 [60 Cal. Rptr. 2d 539] (LiMandri).
In that case, we explained, “There are ‘four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.’” (Id. at p. 336.) Where, as here, a fiduciary
relationship does not exist  between the
parties, only the latter three circumstances may apply. These three
circumstances, however, “presuppose[] the existence of some other relationship
between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id.
at pp. 336–337.) “A duty to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in
a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as ‘“seller and buyer,
employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into
any kind of contractual arrangement.”’” (Shin v. Kong (2000) 80
Cal.App.4th 498, 509 [95 Cal. Rptr. 2d 304].)
 
(Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 311.)
 
While
Defendant believes that Bigler-Engler supports its argument, Defendant
fails to address that this statement includes parties entering into a
contractual agreement, which necessarily includes warranty contracts such as
the one in this action.
 
The Court
need not address whether the battery defect was considered a material fact as
one of the LiMandri principals has been met. 
 
For
clarity, the Court also addresses Defendant’s next citation from Bigler-Engler:
“Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
Plaintiff[s] and defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.” (Id. at 312.) This is not a case between Defendant and
the public at large. This is a case between Plaintiff and Defendant regarding
the warranty agreement entered into by the parties and the defects in the
Subject Vehicle purchased. 
 
Based on
the allegations of the FAC, this is a case where when Defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff. Thus, the LiMandri standard
has been met.  
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is OVERRULED.

 
     
ii.           
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant seeks to strike
Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages in the Prayer for Relief. Provides
several arguments: (1) Plaintiff may not recover punitive damages based upon
the Song-Beverly Act (directed to non-fraud based claims); (2) Plaintiff has
not pled facts within the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) to support a claim of punitive
damages under Cal. Civ. Code § 3294; and (3) Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of
Action (Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment) is time-barred and fails to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and, therefore, cannot support punitive damages. 
 
Plaintiff argues that as Defendant’s Demurrer fails, so too must its
Motion to Strike. Plaintiff emphasizes that his fraudulent-inducement claim is
separate and distinct from the warranty claims under Song-Beverly. Plaintiff
next presents that he has sufficiently alleged Defendant’s oppression, fraud,
and malice. Finally, Plaintiff cites federal cases discussing Song-Beverly to
show that punitive damages are available at the pleading stage. 
 
The issue presented before this Court, based
on the FAC, is whether a plaintiff can recover compensatory damages under the
Song-Beverly Act as well as punitive damages for fraud. The California Courts
of Appeal have addressed this issue.¿¿
¿¿ 
Court of Appeal of California, Fourth
Appellate District holds:¿¿ 
¿¿ 
We accept that a plaintiff cannot recover
both a statutory penalty and punitive damages based on the same conduct. (See
part VIII, post.) The present question, however, is whether a plaintiff can
recover compensatory damages on one claim and punitive damages on a different
claim. That issue simply was not presented in Fineman. As the treble damages
were $19.5 million, evidently the compensatory damages on the antitrust claim
were $6.5 million; the compensatory damages on the state law claim were $17.7 million.
Thus, the plaintiff had no incentive to try to combine compensatory damages on
the antitrust claim with punitive damages on the state law claim.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ford also cites Quest Medical, Inc. v.
Apprill (5th Cir. 1996) 90 F.3d 1080, which was decided under Texas law.
(See id. at pp. 1089–1090, 1093.) In Texas, however, attorney fees may be
awarded as an element of punitive damages. (Canales v. Zapatero
(Tex.App. 1989) 773 S.W.2d 659, 660; Carter v. Barclay (Tex.Civ.App.
1972) 476 S.W.2d 909, 917.) Hence, an award of both attorney fees and punitive
damages can constitute a double recovery. (JHC Ventures, L.P. v. Fast
Trucking, Inc. (Tex.App. 2002) 94 S.W.3d 762, 774–776, disapproved on other
grounds in Medical City Dallas, Ltd. v. Carlisle Corp. (Tex. 2008) 251 S.W.3d
55, 62.) That is not the law in California.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ford also cites Celeritas Technologies,
Ltd. v. Rockwell Internat. Corp. (Fed. Cir. 1998) 150 F.3d 1354, cert. den.
(1999) 525 U.S. 1106. There, however, the plaintiff had stipulated before trial
that, “to simplify the trial and avoid a duplicative recovery,” it would accept
the award on either its breach of contract, misappropriation of trade secrets,
or patent infringement theory, whichever was highest. (Id. at p. 1357.) The
appellate court held that, because of its stipulation, the plaintiff could not
recover both the compensatory damages awarded for breach of contract and the
punitive damages awarded for misappropriation. (Id. at p. 1362.) The
Bowsers entered no such stipulation.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
We therefore conclude that the Bowsers are
entitled to compensatory damages (and attorney fees) under the Song-Beverly Act
as well as punitive damages for fraud.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
(Bowser v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 587, 626-27.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Court of Appeal of California, Third
Appellate District holds:¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ford also argues that “a defendant’s conduct
is ‘substantially the same’ when it is part of a ‘unified course of conduct,’”
“even when multiple and distinct acts, giving rise to claims under different
legal theories, are involved.” And because the “facts” developed from the
evidence of its corporate communications overlap to show reprehensibility for
punitive damages and willfulness for the Song-Beverly Act violation, both
awards therefore address substantially the same conduct, or a unified course of
conduct, and therefore an award¿ of punitive damages and a Song-Beverly Act
civil penalty amount to Ford being punished twice for the same conduct. We do
not agree.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
We have already rejected Ford's assertion
that the underlying conduct need only be “substantially” the same to prohibit
the recovery of both punitive damages and civil penalties; rather, the recovery
of both punitive damages and civil penalties is prohibited when the underlying
conduct for both remedies is the same conduct, i.e., identical conduct. And as
we have said, the punitive damages award based on fraud and violation of the
CLRA were based on Ford's presale fraudulent conduct leading up to and culminating
in the sale, where Ford concealed problems relating to the defective 6.0 liter
Navistar diesel engine. The Song-Beverly Act civil penalty related to Ford's
willful postsale conduct in failing to promptly replace the truck after a
reasonable number of repair attempts or make restitution to plaintiffs.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
[. . .]¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ford appears to assert that plaintiff
effectively combined the conduct underlying the fraud/CRLA cause of action and
the Song-Beverly Act cause of action by arguing Ford engaged in a pattern and
practice of misconduct and thus the two awards were based on substantially the
same conduct. But plaintiffs are not prohibited from receiving both an award
for punitive damages based on presale fraudulent inducement and a postsale
Song-Beverly Act penalty based on willful noncompliance because they argued
pattern and practice in the trial court. “A pattern or practice of wrongful
conduct is often introduced as evidence of malice or oppression to justify a
punitive damage award.” (George F. Hillenbrand, Inc. v. Insurance Co. of
North America (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 784, 820–821 [128 Cal. Rptr. 2d 586].)
Thus, whether Ford's conduct involved a pattern and practice of misconduct as
well¿ as other factors, such as how reprehensible Ford's conduct was and
whether Ford disregarded the safety of others were all express considerations
for the jury to weigh in deciding the amount of punitive damages. (CACI No.
3942.) And the amount of punitive damages is not limited to consideration of a
pattern and practice of misconduct presale. The jury could consider a pattern
or practice that continued beyond the date of the sale.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Moreover, whether Ford engaged in an ongoing
pattern or practice of misconduct pertinent to the amount of punitive damages
award does not become an impermissible consideration by virtue of the fact that
plaintiffs were also separately alleging, and attempting to establish, that
Ford willfully failed to comply with the requirements of the Song-Beverly Act.
Nor does the proper consideration of whether Ford engaged in such a pattern or
practice, including pre- and postsale conduct, lead to the conclusion that the
fraud/CLRA claims and the Song-Beverly Act claim were based on the same
conduct. Plaintiffs did not argue to the jury that the failure to comply with
the Song-Beverly Act obligations to replace the vehicle or make restitution
supported the punitive damages award. In fact, in phase 2, plaintiffs' attorney
briefly discussed the Song-Beverly Act, noting, “[y]ou can be an honest
manufacturer and still have Song-Beverly issues, a customer came in multiple
times, there were defects, you didn't fix them.” Counsel then stated that the
Song-Beverly Act and its civil penalties were “totally separate.”¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ford simply cannot escape liability for both
awards by virtue of the fact that it engaged in a pattern or practice of
deceitful misconduct throughout the course of the discrete events and conduct
involved here.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
We conclude that punitive damages and the
Song-Beverly Act civil penalty were both properly awarded to
plaintiffs.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
(Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 946, 970-73 (“Anderson”).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Here, as in Anderson, the
Song-Beverly claims are related to Defendant’s ability to replace the Subject
Vehicle or make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act while the
Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) is based on
pre-sale actions of fraudulent concealment which ultimately led to the purchase
of the Subject Vehicle.¿¿¿ 
 
Further, as discussed ante, the
allegations of for the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment) have been pled with the requisite specificity.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to
Strike is DENIED.                      
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant General Motors LLC’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant General Motors LLC’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED.


