 Case Number:  23AVCV00751    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This
is a civil unlimited unlawful detainer action. Plaintiff The California LP
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant Shanniece Stevenson (“Defendant”) is in
possession of the premises located at 5625 Hickory Street Palmdale, CA 93551
(the “Subject Property”), Plaintiff agreed to pay monthly rent of $2,704.00 via
written agreement, the rent was later adjusted to $3,230 in accordance with
California Law, Defendant failed to pay rent, a 3-Day Notice to Pay/30-Day
Notice to Quit was served on either May 23, 2023 or June 23, 2023[1],
and Plaintiff now owes past-rent due in the amount of $27,868.54.
 
On
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint alleging one cause of action for
Unlawful Detainer (“UD”).
 
On
August 07, 2023, Defendant filed her Answer. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, a non-jury trial was held. Plaintiff did not appear. The
Court dismissed the action without prejudice. 
 
On October
30, 2023, Defendant filed this Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Dismissal. 
 
No
Opposition has been filed. “All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be
filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days.
. .before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) “Section 1013, which
extends the time within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done,
does not apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers
governed by this section.” (Ibid.) The hearing is set for December 12, 2023.
Accordingly, an Opposition was due by November 29, 2023. Should an Opposition
be filed, it is now untimely.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard
to Set Aside – ¿“ ‘ A motion
for relief under section 473 is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial
court and an appellate court will not interfere unless there is a clear showing
of an abuse.’ ” (Burnete¿v. La Casa Dana Apartments¿(2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 1262, 1266.)¿ “Although a trial court has discretion to vacate the
entry of a default or subsequent judgment, this discretion may be exercised
only after the party seeking relief has shown that there is a proper ground for
relief, and that the party has raised that ground in a procedurally proper
manner, within any applicable time limits.” (Cruz v.¿Fagor¿America, Inc.¿(2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Additionally,
the California Supreme Court has held the following:¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Section 473 is often applied liberally where the party in default moves
promptly to seek relief, and the party opposing the motion will not suffer
prejudice if relief is granted. [Citations.] In such situations “very slight
evidence will be required to justify a court in setting aside the default.”
[Citations.] [¶] Moreover, because the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved
in favor of the party seeking relief from default. [Citations.] Therefore, a
trial court order denying relief is scrutinized more carefully than an order
permitting trial on the merits. [Citations.]¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(Elston¿v.
City of Turlock¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233-34.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) permits the Court to “relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) “Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Id.)¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Plaintiff presents that the dismissal occurred as Plaintiff's
Counsel’s office mistakenly instructed the appearance attorney to appear in
Department A22 instead of Department A14 and, had this error not occurred,
Plaintiff would have appeared at the hearing and informed the Court that Plaintiff
was ready to proceed with trial. (See Decl. Larry Hales ¶¶ 4-5.) 
 
Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 473 reads, in relevant part:  
 
The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. However, in the case of a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding determining the ownership or right to possession of real or
personal property, without extending the six-month period, when a notice in
writing is personally served within the State of California both upon the party
against whom the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding has been
taken, and upon his or her attorney of record, if any, notifying that party and
his or her attorney of record, if any, that the order, judgment, dismissal, or
other proceeding was taken against him or her and that any rights the party has
to apply for relief under the provisions of Section 473 of the Code of Civil
Procedure shall expire 90 days after service of the notice, then the
application shall be made within 90 days after service of the notice upon the
defaulting party or his or her attorney of record, if any, whichever service
shall be later. No affidavit or declaration of merits shall be required of the
moving party. Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court
shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the time within
which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310. 
 
(Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) 
 
California
courts have interpreted subdivision (b) to include both a mandatory relief
provision and a permissive relief provision. 
 
Case law
provides:¿ 
¿ 
Having the
benefit of reviewing English and its progeny, we disapprove of our prior
opinions in Avila v. Chua, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th 860 and In re
Marriage of Hock & Gordon-Hock, supra, 80 Cal.App.4th 1438. As
summarized succinctly by our colleague, now Retired Associate Justice Richard
J. McAdams, in Huh, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at page 1417: “We
agree with the cogent analysis in English, which is faithful to
legislative intent and consistent with established principles of statutory
construction. As the English court said: ‘It is not an appellate court's task,
nor, indeed, its prerogative, when interpreting a statute, to extend the scope
of the statute to encompass situations “analogous” to those the statute
explicitly addresses. Rather, an appellate court's task is simply to determine
what the Legislature meant by the words it used, relying first and foremost on
the words themselves.’ (English, supra, 94 Cal.App.4th at p.
144.) Where the statutory language is unambiguous, its plain meaning controls.
(Id. at p. 143; see Kavanaugh v. West Sonoma County Union High School
Dist. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 911, 919 [129 Cal. Rptr. 2d 811, 62 P.3d 54].)
Here, the statutory language is unequivocal. ‘As expressly worded, section
473(b)[’ s mandatory provision] applies only to relief sought in response to
defaults, default judgments or dismissals.’ (Vandermoon v. Sanwong, supra,
142 Cal.App.4th at p. 320, italics added.) Summary judgments are neither
defaults, nor default judgments, nor dismissals. (English, at p. 133.)
The explicit statutory language of section 473(b) thus ‘provides no basis for
extending the mandatory provision’ to such judgments. (Prieto v. Loyola
Marymount University, supra, 132 Cal.App.4th at p. 297.) In the
words of Justice Epstein, ‘to read the mandatory provision of … section 473 to
apply whenever a party loses his or her day in court due to attorney error goes
far beyond anything the Legislature has done.’ (Yeap[ v. Leake], supra,
60 Cal.App.4th at p. 605 (dis. opn. of Epstein, J.).)” We agree with Retired
Associate Justice McAdams's cogent analysis and disapprove of our mandatory
relief discussions in Avila and Hock.¿ 
¿ 
(The Urban Wildlands Group, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 10
Cal.App.5th 993, 1000-01.)  
 
Plaintiff’s argument is supported by the declaration of Larry
Hales.
 
The
Court notes that Defendant has not filed an Opposition to this motion and that
a failure to oppose a motion may be construed as a concession on the merits.
(See D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 728,
fn. 4 [where nonmoving party fails to oppose a ground for a motion “it is
assumed that [nonmoving party] concedes” that ground].)
 
Accordingly,
the Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Dismissal is GRANTED.
-----
 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff
The California LP’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Dismissal is GRANTED.


