  Case Number:  22SMCV01579    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01579




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Tracy Childs, M.D.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Lamar Hawkins 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Raymond Shofler, M.D.
Declaration
     of Yuk K. Law, Esq.
Notice
     of Lodging Exhibits
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Facts 

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment
Response to Separate Statement of
     Undisputed Facts 
Objection to Declaration of Raymond
     Shofler, M.D.


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about July 21, 2021, Plaintiff Lamar Hawkins (“Plaintiff”) was
admitted to Defendant Providence St. John’s Health Center (“Providence”) to
undergo a laparoscopic left spigelian hernia and umbilical hernia repair,
performed by Defendant Tracey Childs, M.D. (“Childs”) and assisted by Defendant
Denita Price, PA-C (“Price”) as well as a sacrocolpopexy and cystocscopy
performed by Defendant Lauren Cadish, M.D. (“Cadish”) and assisted by Defendant
Tracey Childs, M.D. (“Childs”), with Defendant Matthew Cho, M.D. (“Cho”)
administering anesthesia.  (First Amended
Complaint [“FAC”] at ¶ 20.)  
 
Plaintiff alleges that during the treatment, Defendants failed to
properly administer the IV drip or monitor Plaintiff’s IV drip during the
surgery, which fell below the applicable standard of care.  (FAC at ¶¶ 21-23.)  As a result, Plaintiff suffered burns, tissue
injury, nerve damage, and scarring.  (FAC
¶¶ 29-30.)  Plaintiff’s operative First
Amended Complaint alleges a single cause of action against Defendants for
medical negligence.
 
Childs moves for summary judgment, arguing (1) the medical treatment
and care provided to Plaintiff by Childs complied with the standard of care at
all times; and (2) nothing Childs did or failed to do caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s
claimed injuries.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Childs replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
1.  Entire Declaration: Overruled
2.  Paragraph 7:           Overruled
[1]
3.  Paragraph 8:           Overruled
4.  Paragraph 9:           Overruled
5.  Paragraph 10:         Overruled
6.  Paragraph 11:         Overruled [2]
7.  Paragraph 12:         Overruled
8.  Paragraph 13:         Overruled
9.  Paragraph 14:         Overruled
10.  Paragraph 15:       Overruled
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.     PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE 
 
“Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a) establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his
or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.  When applied to medical professionals, this
duty of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical
professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the breach of that duty. 
(Banerian v. O’Malley (1974)
42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)  
 
“[T]he legal standard of care
required by doctors is the standard of practice required by their own
profession.  The courts require only that
physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable
degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by
members of the medical profession under similar circumstances.  Thus, liability is not found, and the label of
malpractice is not placed upon a physician's actions, unless some deviation by
the physician from the standard of care that his peers consider appropriate in
the situation under review is proven.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally
the only admissible and relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has
breached the standard of care.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents
the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony
(citations), unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is
within the common knowledge of the layman’ ”].) 
As the Court of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for
medical professionals:  “The standard of
care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony.  California courts have incorporated the
expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical
malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, defendant is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”  (Hanson
v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)  Further, a plaintiff “is entitled to all
favorable inferences that may reasonably be derived from” an expert’s
declaration which must be liberally construed. 
(See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)   
 
a.     Childs’ Evidence       
 
Childs relies on the Declaration
of Raymond Shofler, M.D. (“Shofler”), who is a physician licensed to practice
in the State of California, who is board certified in surgery.  (Declaration of Raymond Shofler, M.D.,  ¶ 2.) 
Shofler completed his general surgery residency at the University of
Southern California Medical Center in Los Angeles, was on staff at Providence
St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, California from 1984-2022, and was
chairman of the Department of Surgery from 2000-2001 and 2017-2022.  (Ibid.)   
 
Shofler reviewed the following
in order to craft his declaration and form his opinions: Plaintiff’s medical
records from Providence Saint John’s Health Center.  (Declaration of Raymond Shofler, M.D., ¶ 4.)    
 
Shofler states, in pertinent
part, that “I am familiar with the applicable standard of care for
general surgery physicians in the Southern California community at all times
relevant to this action” (Declaration
of Raymond Shofler, M.D., ¶ 3.)  Shofler’s qualifications are sufficient to
establish that Shofler has the requisite medical training and experience in Los
Angeles County to opine on the applicable standard of care for a surgeon.  Shofler further declares:
 
STANDARD OF CARE 
 
11. Based upon my review of the above-delineated
records, as well as my education, training, and experience, it is my opinion
that the care and treatment rendered to plaintiff Lamar Hawkins by the general
surgery physician at Kaiser Permanente complied with the standard of care. 
 
12. Dr. Childs had no involvement in the ordering
of the fluorescein, administration of the fluorescein or the monitoring of the
IV at issue. The administration of fluorescein was only used during Dr. Lauren
Cadish’s surgery, which was after the surgery performed by Dr. Childs and
assisted by physician’s assistant Ms. Price. 
 
13. There were no issues by Dr. Childs during the
surgery which could have impacted the dislodgment of the IV going into the left
arm which is at issue.
 
CAUSATION 
 
14. Nothing the general surgeon physician did or
did not do contributed to plaintiff’s infiltration of the soft tissue by the
fluorescein and resulting injury because the fluorescein was not used during
Dr. Childs’ surgery and Dr. Childs had no involvement in the ordering of the
fluorescein, administration of the fluorescein or the monitoring of the IV at
issue
 
15. All of the aforementioned opinions are based
upon my education, training, and experience and are made to a reasonable degree
of medical probability. I reserve the right to withdraw, amend, or revise the
above opinions in the event additional information is discovered or provided.
 
(Declaration of Raymond Shofler, M.D., ¶¶
11-15.)
 
Childs’
evidence is sufficient to meet Childs’ burdens of persuasion and production of
evidence to show that Plaintiff will be unable to establish that Childs breached
the standard of care with respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and
Childs’ breach of the standard of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s
claimed injuries.  Thus, Childs has shifted
the burden of production to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact.
 
b.    
Plaintiff’s
Evidence  
 
Plaintiff does not present any evidence to create a triable issue of
material fact.  Instead, Plaintiff raises
evidentiary objections to the Shofler declaration which the Court has addressed
above.  
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not met her burden of production to create a
triable issue of material fact.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
In considering the competent evidence proffered by Childs, the Court
finds that there are no triable issues of material fact, and determines, as a
matter of law, that Childs complied with the applicable standard of care
in relation to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and that no alleged
negligent act or omission on the part of Childs caused, contributed to, or was
a substantial factor in bringing about the injuries alleged by Plaintiff.   
 
Therefore, the Court grants Childs’
motion for summary judgment, and will enter the proposed Order and Judgment
lodged with the Court on March 1, 2024.  Childs
shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service.
 

 
 
 
 
DATED:  May 21, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


