


[1] “An expert may still rely on hearsay in forming an
opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms that he did so. Because the
jury must independently evaluate the probative value of an expert's testimony, [Evidence
Code section] 802 properly allows an expert to relate generally the kind and
source of the matter on which the opinion rests.  What an expert cannot do is relate as true
case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are
independently proven by competent evidence or are covered by a hearsay
exception.”  (1 Witkin, Cal. Evid. 6th
Opinion Evid § 38 (2023) [cleaned up].) 
Here, with respect to Undisputed Material Facts 5, 6, 7 and 8, Childs
advances competent evidence, apart from the Declaration of Raymond Shofler,
M.D., to support such material facts, overcoming the objections pursuant to People
v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665.  (See
Declaration of Yuk K. Law, Exhibit C.)
 
Further, Plaintiff
contends that Raymond Shofler, M.D.’s reference to Plaintiff’s medical records
improperly “reveal[s] the content of reports prepared or opinions expressed by
non-testifying experts” in contravention of People v. Campos (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 304, 308.  The Court
disagrees.  Dr. Shofler is laying the
foundation upon which he bases his expert opinions.  Plaintiff’s medical records from Providence
are not expert reports prepared by non-testifying experts.  Rather they are the record of Plaintiff’s
medical treatment at Providence Saint John’s Health Center.
 


[2] Plaintiff
asserts that the Declaration of Raymond Shofler, M.D., paragraph 11, references
Kaiser Permanente instead of Providence Saint John’s Health Center.  The Court finds that the reference in
paragraph 11 to be a harmless typographical error as illustrated by Plaintiff’s
health care records advanced in support of the motion, including Exhibits C and
E, and the Declaration of Raymond Shofler, M.D., executed October 20, 2023 in
which the declarant references Providence Saint John’s Health Center, and not
Kaiser Permanente.  (See Declaration of
Paul S. Cook, Exhibit A.)  In short, the
Court finds the statement as set forth in paragraph 11 to be trustworthy and
reliable. 

TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01579




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Lauren Cadish, M.D.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Lamar Hawkins 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Kathryn Arendt, M.D.
Declaration
     of Yuk K. Law
Notice
     of Lodging Exhibits
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Facts 

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment
Response to Separate Statement of
     Undisputed Facts 
Objection to Declaration of
     Kathryn Arendt


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about July 21, 2021, Plaintiff Lamar Hawkins (“Plaintiff”) was
admitted to Defendant Providence St. John’s Health Center (“Providence”) to
undergo a laparoscopic left spigelian hernia and umbilical hernia repair,
performed by Defendant Tracey Childs, M.D. (“Childs”) and assisted by Defendant
Denita Price, PA-C (“Price”) as well as a sacrocolpopexy and cystocscopy
performed by Defendant Lauren Cadish, M.D. (“Cadish”) and assisted by Defendant
Tracey Childs, M.D. (“Childs”), with Defendant Matthew Cho, M.D. (“Cho”)
administering anesthesia.  (First Amended
Complaint [“FAC”] at ¶ 20.)  
 
Plaintiff alleges that during the treatment, Defendants failed to
properly administer the IV drip or monitor Plaintiff’s IV drip during the
surgery, which fell below the applicable standard of care.  (FAC at ¶¶ 21-23.)  As a result, Plaintiff suffered burns, tissue
injury, nerve damage, and scarring.  (FAC
¶¶ 29-30.)  Plaintiff’s operative First
Amended Complaint alleges a single cause of action against Defendants for
medical negligence.
 
Cadish moves for summary judgment, arguing (1) the medical treatment
and care provided to Plaintiff by Cadish complied with the standard of care at
all times; and (2) nothing Dr. Cadish did or failed to do caused or contributed
to plaintiff’s claimed injuries.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Cadish replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
1.  Entire Declaration: Overruled
2. Paragraph
3:            Overruled [1]
3. Paragraph
7:            Overruled [2]
3.
Paragraph 8:            Overruled [3]
4. Paragraph
9:            Overruled
5. Paragraph
10:          Overruled [4]
6. Paragraph
11:          Overruled
7. Paragraph
12:          Overruled
8. Paragraph
13:          Overruled
9. Paragraph
14:          Overruled
10. Paragraph
15:        Overruled
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.     PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE 
 
“Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a) establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his
or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.  When applied to medical professionals, this
duty of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical
professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the breach of that duty. 
(Banerian v. O’Malley (1974)
42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)  
 
“[T]he legal standard of care
required by doctors is the standard of practice required by their own
profession.  The courts require only that
physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable
degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by
members of the medical profession under similar circumstances.  Thus, liability is not found, and the label of
malpractice is not placed upon a physician's actions, unless some deviation by
the physician from the standard of care that his peers consider appropriate in
the situation under review is proven.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally
the only admissible and relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has
breached the standard of care.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents
the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony
(citations), unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is
within the common knowledge of the layman’ ”].) 
As the Court of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for
medical professionals:  “The standard of
care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony.  California courts have incorporated the
expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical
malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, defendant is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”  (Hanson
v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)  Further, a plaintiff “is entitled to all
favorable inferences that may reasonably be derived from” an expert’s
declaration which must be liberally construed. 
(See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)   
 
a.     Cadish’s Evidence    
 
Cadish relies on the Declaration
of Kathryn Arendt, M.D. (“Arendt”), who is a physician licensed to practice in
the State of Washington, who is board certified in obstetrics/gynecology and
female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery.  (Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., ¶ 2.)  Arendt completed her obstetrics/gynecology
residence at the University of New Mexico School of Medicine in Albuquerque,
completed a two-year pelvic surgery fellowship at Virginia Mason Medical Center
in Seattle, and has been in private practice specializing in robotic and
vaginal reconstructive surgery, urinary incontinence and surgical gynecology and
menopause in Washington state since 1998. 
(Ibid.)  
 
Arendt reviewed the following
in order to craft her declaration and form her opinions: Plaintiff’s medical
records from Providence Saint John’s Health Center.  (Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., ¶
4.)    
 
Arendt states, in pertinent
part, that “I am familiar with the standard of care in the community for the
field of urogynecological surgery in Southern California in 2021 at the time of
the incident” and “I am familiar with the applicable standard of care
for urogynecological surgeons in the Washington community which also applies to
the Southern California community at all times relevant to this action.” (Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., ¶¶
2-3.) Dr. Arendt further declares:
 
STANDARD OF CARE 
 
10. Based upon my review of the above-delineated
records, as well as my education, training, and experience, it is my opinion
that the care and treatment rendered to plaintiff Lamar Hawkins by the
urogynecology physician at Kaiser Permanente complied with the standard of
care. 
 
11. Dr. Cadish had no involvement in the
administration of the fluorescein or the monitoring of the IV at issue. 
 
12. There were no issues by Dr. Cadish during the
surgery which could have impacted the dislodgment of the IV going into the left
arm which is at issue. 
 
13. The use of fluorescein was indicated and
entirely appropriate in order to better visualize the ureteral orifices at the
time of Dr. Cadish’s surgery. 
 
CAUSATION 
 
14. Nothing the urogynecology physician did or
did not do contributed to plaintiff’s infiltration of the soft tissue by the
fluorescein and resulting injury because Dr. Cadish had no involvement in the
administration of the fluorescein or the monitoring of the IV at issue. 
 
15. All of the aforementioned opinions are based
upon my education, training, and experience and are made to a reasonable degree
of medical probability. I reserve the right to withdraw, amend, or revise the
above opinions in the event additional information is discovered or provided.
 
(Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., ¶¶
10-15.)
 
Cadish’s evidence is
sufficient to meet Cadish’s burdens of persuasion and production of evidence to
show that Plaintiff will be unable to establish that Cadish breached the
standard of care with respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and Cadish’s
breach of the standard of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries.  Thus, Cadish has shifted the
burden of production to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact.
 
b.     Plaintiff’s Evidence  
 
Plaintiff does not present any
evidence to create a triable issue of material fact.  Instead, Plaintiff raises evidentiary
objections to the Arendt declaration which the Court has addressed above.  
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not
met her burden of production to create a triable issue of material fact.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
In considering the competent
evidence proffered by Cadish, the Court finds that there are no triable issues
of material fact, and determines, as a matter of law, that Cadish
complied with the applicable standard of care in relation to the treatment and
care of Plaintiff, and that no alleged negligent act or omission on the part of
Cadish caused, contributed to, or was a substantial factor in bringing about
the injuries alleged by Plaintiff.   
 
Therefore, the Court grants Cadish’s motion for summary judgment, and
will enter the proposed Order and Judgment lodged with the Court on March 1,
2024.  Cadish shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service.
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  May 21, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


