


[1] “At one time, in medical malpractice cases generally,
the standard of care required that a physician or surgeon have the degree of
learning and skill ordinarily possessed by practitioners of the medical
profession in the same locality. More recently, however, the Supreme Court has
formulated the standard of care as that of physicians in similar circumstances
rather than similar locations. Today, neither the Evidence Code nor Supreme
Court precedent requires an expert witness to have practiced in a particular
locality before he or she can render an opinion in an ordinary medical
malpractice case.”  (Borrayo v. Avery
(2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 304, 310–311 [cleaned up], citing Avivi v. Centro Medico
Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463 (hereafter Avivi).)  “[T]he appropriate test for expert
qualification in ordinary medical malpractice actions is whether the expert is familiar with circumstances similar to those of
the respondents; familiarity with the standard of care in the particular
community where the alleged malpractice occurred, while relevant, is generally
not requisite . . . .”  (Avivi, supra,
159 Cal.App.4th at p. 465.)  As set forth
in the Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., the Court finds the expert to be familiar
with circumstances similar those herein. 

 


[2] “An expert may still rely on hearsay in forming an
opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms that he did so. Because the
jury must independently evaluate the probative value of an expert's testimony, [Evidence
Code section] 802 properly allows an expert to relate generally the kind and
source of the matter on which the opinion rests.  What an expert cannot do is relate as true
case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are
independently proven by competent evidence or are covered by a hearsay
exception.”  (1 Witkin, Cal. Evid. 6th
Opinion Evid § 38 (2023) [cleaned up].) 
Here, with respect to Undisputed Material Facts 5, 6 and 7, Cadish advances
competent evidence, apart from the Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., to
support such material facts, overcoming the objections pursuant to People v.
Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665.  (See Declaration
of Yuk K. Law, Exhibit C.)
 
Further, Plaintiff
contends that Kathryn Arendt, M.D.’s reference to Plaintiff’s medical records
improperly “reveal[s] the content of reports prepared or opinions expressed by
non-testifying experts” in contravention of People v. Campos (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 304, 308.  The Court
disagrees.  Dr. Arendt is laying the
foundation upon which he bases her expert opinions.  Plaintiff’s medical records from Providence
are not expert reports prepared by non-testifying experts.  Rather they are the record of Plaintiff’s
medical treatment at Providence Saint John’s Health Center.
 


[3] Plaintiff lists two Objection 3s.
 


[4] Plaintiff asserts that the
Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., paragraph 10, references Kaiser Permanente
instead of Providence Saint John’s Health Center.  The Court finds that the reference in
paragraph 10 to be a harmless typographical error as illustrated by Plaintiff’s
health care records advanced in support of the motion, including Exhibits C and
E, and the Declaration of Kathryn Arendt, M.D., executed October 25, 2023 in
which the declarant references Providence Saint John’s Health Center, and not
Kaiser Permanente.  (See Declaration of
Paul S. Cook, Exhibit A.)  In short, the
Court finds the statement as set forth in paragraph 10 to be trustworthy and
reliable.  
 

