  Case Number:  24STCV01273    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  14 #10Case Background
 
            This is a lemon law case
involving a 2016 Kia Optima. 
 
            On January 17,
2024, Plaintiff Yasmin Zarate filed a Complaint against Kia America, Inc. for
(1) Violation of subdivision (d) of Civil Code section 1793.2; (2) Violation of
Subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2; (3) Violation of Subdivision
(a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.3; (4) Breach of Express Warranty, Violation
of Civil Code section 1791.2(a), section 1794; and (5) Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Merchantability.
 
Trial is not yet set.
 
Instant Motion
 
Defendant now demurs to all the
causes of action in the complaint on the grounds that it fails to state
sufficient facts to constitute any cause of action and that portions of the
complaint are also vague and uncertain.
 
Decision
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Discussion
 
First Cause of Action for Violation of Subdivision (d)
of Civil Code Section 1793.2 
 
Civil Code section 1793.2 subdivision (d)(1) states the
following: “Except as provided in paragraph (2), if the manufacturer or its
representative in this state does not service or repair the goods to conform to
the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the
manufacturer shall either replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an amount
equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer, less that amount directly
attributable to use by the buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity.” (Civ.
Code § 1793.2(d)(1).)
 
The Complaint alleges that during the warranty period, the
Subject Vehicle contained or developed multiple defects, including defective
body system; defective powertrain system; defective safety system; defective
electrical system; defective braking system; and defective noise system, and
that Defendant was unable to service or repair the Vehicle within a reasonable
number of attempt. The allegations in the complaint are sufficiently pled to constitute
a cause of action under Civil Code section 1793.2(d). 
 
Second
Cause of Action for Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2
 
Civil Code section 1793.2 subdivision (b) states the
following: “Where those service and repair facilities are maintained in this
state and service or repair of the goods is necessary because they do not
conform with the applicable express warranties, service and repair shall be commenced
within a reasonable time by the manufacturer or its representative in this
state. Unless the buyer agrees in writing to the contrary, the goods shall be
serviced or repaired so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30
days. Delay caused by conditions beyond the control of the manufacturer or its
representatives shall serve to extend this 30-day requirement. Where delay
arises, conforming goods shall be tendered as soon as possible following
termination of the condition giving rise to the delay.”  (Civ. Code §
1793.2(b).
 
Kia argues that Plaintiff failed to identify the Kia
authorized service or repair facilities to which she presented the vehicle, the
dates she presented the vehicle and the duration of any such visits. The Complaint
alleges “Although Plaintiff presented the Vehicle to Defendant, Defendant
failed to commence the service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed
to service or repair the Vehicle so as to conform to the applicable warranties
within 30 days, in violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b).
Plaintiff did not extend the time for completion of repairs beyond the 30-day
requirement.”  These allegations are sufficient to plead a cause of action
under Civil Code section 1793.2(b). Kia cites to no law which requires
Plaintiff to plead the identity of the repair facilities, the dates she
presented the vehicle and the duration of any visits. See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 549-550 (less particularity required where defendant is the party in
possession of the facts).
 
Third
Cause of Action
for
Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3)
 
Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3)
provides: 
“(a) Every manufacturer
of consumer goods sold in this state and for which the manufacturer has made an
express warranty shall: 
… 
(3) Make available to
authorized service and repair facilities sufficient service literature and
replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period.”
The complaint alleges that
Kia did not make available literature and replacement parts to effect repairs
during the express warranty period.  Kia cites no case law that requires
specific facts be alleged to state a claim for violation of Civil Code section
1793.2(a)(3).  
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Express
Warranty: Sections 1791.2 and 1794 
Civil Code § 1791.2
provides: 
“(a) “Express warranty”
means: 
(1) A written statement
arising out of a sale to the consumer of a consumer good pursuant to which the
manufacturer, distributor, or retailer undertakes to preserve or maintain the
utility or performance of the consumer good or provide compensation if there is
a failure in utility or performance; or 
(2) In the event of any
sample or model, that the whole of the goods conforms to such sample or model. 
(b) It is not necessary
to the creation of an express warranty that formal words such as “warrant” or
“guarantee” be used, but if such words are used then an express warranty is
created. An affirmation merely of the value of the goods or a statement purporting
to be merely an opinion or commendation of the goods does not create a
warranty. 
(c) Statements or
representations such as expressions of general policy concerning customer
satisfaction which are not subject to any limitation do not create an express
warranty.” 
Civil Code § 1794
provides in relevant part: 
“(a) Any buyer of
consumer goods who is damaged by a failure to comply with any obligation under
this chapter or under an implied or express warranty or service contract may
bring an action for the recovery of damages and other legal and equitable
relief.” (Emphasis added). 
Defendant Kia also argues
that this cause of action is duplicative of Plaintiff’s first cause of action
(for violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d)(1). That is not entirely accurate. Section
1793.2(d) obliges a manufacturer to either (1) replace the car or (2) repay the
purchase price, minus the value the consumer obtained from the use of the car.
But lemon law lawsuits are authorized only through Section 1794; and under that
section, a consumer may bring an action for either failure to comply with any
obligation under the lemon law statutes or under a warranty. Failure to comply
with an obligation to replace or buy back the vehicle is a different theory of
recovery than failure to repair the vehicle under an express warranty. 
This cause of action is
neither poorly pled nor duplicative. 
Fifth
Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability 
“Under the implied merchantability
warranty, ‘every sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in this state
shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's and the retail seller's implied
warranty that the goods are merchantable.’ (§ 1792.) The warranty ‘ “ arises by
operation of law” ’ and therefore applies despite its omission from a purchase
contract.” (Brand v. Hyundai Motor America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1538,
1545; see also, Under Civil Code section 1791.1(a), an “implied warranty of
merchantability” or “implied warranty that goods are merchantable” means that
the consumer goods meet each of the following: (1) pass without objection in
the trade under the contract description, (2) are fit for the ordinary purposes
for which such goods are used, (3) are adequately contained, packaged, and
labeled; and (4) conform to the promises or affirmations of fact made on the
container or label.” (Civ. Code, § 1791.1(a).)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff merely states
conclusions that the Subject Vehicle “(1) does not pass without objection in
the trade under the contract description, (2) is not fit for the ordinary
purposes for which such goods are used, (3) is not adequately contained,
packaged, and labelled, and (4) does not conform to the promises or
affirmations of fact made on the container or label” without pleading any
injury or damage and without stating facts showing causation. Again, Defendant
provides no law that requires this cause of action to be specifically pleaded.
The court finds the allegations are sufficient to withstand demurrer. 
Conclusion
Because Plaintiff has sufficiently pled her
causes of action, Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant                is to Answer within 10 days.