 Case Number:  23TRCV03914    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  P Application for Writ of PossessionThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition has been received.RULINGThe application for writ of possession is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDOn November 27, 2023, plaintiff Ally Bank (“Ally”) filed a complaint against defendant Charhonda L. Bridges aka Charhonda Bridges (“Bridges”). The Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) claim and delivery of personal property; and (2) money due on a contract. The complaint alleges that Ally became the owner of a written contract through written assignment in which Bridges purchased from Plaintiff’s assignor a 2018 Mercedes-Benz GLE-Class, and said contract is in defect based on Bridges’ failure to make payment due and owing on April 11, 2023.On January 18, 2024, Ally filed the instant application for writ of possession relating the subject vehicle.On June 12, 2024, Ally filed proof of substitute service of the summons, complaint and instant application for writ of possession.LEGAL STANDARD“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.010(a).)Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and include:(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.(2) A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.(3) A particular description of the property and a statement of its value.(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located there.(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof. (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.030.)“The writ will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b).) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 511.090.)DISCUSSIONA. Procedural RequirementsAlly’s proof of service, filed on June 12, 2024, indicate that Bridges was served with the requisite documents by substitute service on June 2, 2024. The proofs of service refer to service of the summons, complaint, notice of application and hearing, application for writ of possession, and other related documents. It is noted that Bridges has not filed an opposition to the instant application. Under these circumstances, the Court finds that Ally has complied with the service requirement. (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.030.)Additionally, upon review of the application, the Court finds that Ally has complied with the procedural requirements under Code of Civil Procedure § 512.010(b).B. Basis of Plaintiff’s ClaimThe instant application and complaint are apparently based on cause of action for claim and delivery. (See Applications; Memoranda at pg. 2.)In order to be entitled to a writ of possession, a plaintiff must demonstrate that they are entitled to possess the subject property. (Code Civ. Proc. §512.010(b)(1).) Where an application is based on a cause of action claim and deliver, the Plaintiff here must establish: (1) a right to immediate possession of the Vehicle; and (2) the wrongful detention of the Vehicle by the defendants. (Law v. Heiniger (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d Supp. 898, 899; Home Payment Jewelry Co. v. Smith (1914) 24 Cal.App. 486, 488.) In order to meet this burden, it is improper for a plaintiff to rely solely on a verified complaint. (See 6 Witkin, California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) §255, pg. 203.) The application may be supported by declarations and/or a verified complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 516.030.) The declarations or complaint must set forth admissible evidence except where expressly permitted to be shown on information and belief. (Id.)Here, Ally solely relies upon the Declaration of James Singleton, who is the authorized representative for Ally and oversees Bridges’ account with respect to the subject vehicle. (App., Singleton Decl. ¶ 1.) Mr. Singleton attests that Ally has right to immediate possession of the subject vehicle for the following reasons. First, Ally is the assignee of sales contract, and the contract states that the right to immediate possession of the subject vehicle is permitted upon a default of any provision within the contract. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. A.) Second, Ally is listed as alienholder with first priority on the subject vehicle’s title. (Id., Ehx. B.) Also, Mr. Singleton attests that Bridges has wrongfully detained the subject vehicle for her failure to make necessary payments that were due and owing on April 11, 2023 in the amount of $1,327.03, and Bridges continues to be in breach of the contract for her failure to make payments. (Id. ¶ 6.)Accordingly, the Court finds that Ally has satisfied its evidentiary burden to warrant the requested relief.Based on the foregoing, the application for writ of possession is GRANTED.Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.