 Case Number:  24TRCV01216    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Strike Portions of ComplaintThe court considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.RULINGThe motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND in its entirety.BACKGROUNDOn April 11, 2024, plaintiff Stephanie Armstrong (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against defendants 745-747 Venice Way, A California Limited Liability Company; Beach Front Property Management, Inc., a California Corporation; and L and P Assoc., an entity (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging the following causes of action: (1) violation of Civil Code § 1942.2; (2) breach of the warranty of habitability; (3) private nuisance; (4) violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200; (5) negligence; (6) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment;; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8) negligence per se; (8) violation of consumer legalremedies act, California Civil Code section 1750; (10) violation of the City of Inglewood rent ordinance; and (11) false advertising.The complaint alleges that Plaintiff has been a lawful tenant at the real property located at 745 Venice Way, Apt. 6, Inglewood, California, 90302. (Compl. ¶1.) That property is owned, and/or managed by Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 5.) It is further alleged that, during the tenancy, the subject property was kept in an unsafe, unhealthy, and uninhabitable that violated various state laws. (Id. at ¶¶ 23-26.) Defendants had been notified of plumbing issues but failed to make necessary repairs. (Id. at ¶ 33.) The complaint further alleges that various government officials inspected the property and notified Defendants of the habitability concerns.Defendants move to the strike portions of the complaint that support a claim for punitive damages, included in Paragraphs 59, 60, 82. 83, 102, 114, 133, 176, 178, 182, 183, and 184 as well as the prayer for punitive and exemplary damages in paragraphs 4, 7 and 8.LEGAL AUTHORITYThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)Code of Civil Procedure § 431.10 states, “(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following: (1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense. (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense. (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint. (c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in Section 436.”DISCUSSIONDefendants request that the court strike portions of portions of the complaint that seek punitive and exemplary damages, consisting of multiple paragraphs within the complaint as wellas the prayer for such damages. Defendants contend the claim for punitive damages has not been pleaded with the requisite specificity.Civil Code § 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found:“Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”Indeed, “malice” is defined in Civil Code § 3294 to mean “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Civil Code § 3294(c)(1). As the Court noted in College Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and willful. The Court in College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are base, vile, or contemptible.” Id. at 725 (citation omitted).A claim for punitive damages may not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a conclusion. See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-1042 (Court of Appeal issued peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression, fraud or malice”). “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.¿¿[Citation.]¿¿Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court¿(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted.) To succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.)“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages ..., based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civil Code § 3294.) The California Supreme Court interpreted the “latter statement as requiring the officer, director, or managing agent to be someone who ‘exercise[s] substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 577.) Furthermore, there must be allegations that the managing agent was acting as a corporate representative or in a professional capacity. (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at 724.)Defendants argue that the allegations are insufficient to support punitive damages. They point out that the complaint merely alleges that punitive damages are sought in connection to Plaintiff’s causes of action for tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability and the other, related, causes of action, and the allegations stemming from these causes of action merely state that Defendants were aware of the unsafe conditions and did not repair them to render the subject property safe and habitable. Additionally, Defendants point out that there is no information as to the identity of any person acting on Defendants’ behalf nor any assertion as to how the corporate entities are implicated.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the complaint alleges causes of action that may support exemplary damages and sufficiently alleges facts to support a claim for those damages.Under the circumstances, the court finds that sufficient facts have not been alleged to support a claim for punitive damages in connection with any of the causes of action. Defective conditions of a premises and a failure to correct on their own are not sufficient to sustain a claim for punitive damages. (McDonell v. American Trust Company (1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 296, 297-299.) As noted in McDonell, a landlord’s awareness of a defective condition, his knowledge that it could cause damages, and his refusal to repair it do not establish that the landlord committed an intentional tort. (Id. at 299.) It does not even establish that the landlord acted with consciously with a reckless disregard of the rights of others to constitute malice. (Id.) Moreover, there are no facts by which the reader can conclude that Defendants acted with oppression or malice. (Lehto v. Underground Constr. Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 933, 944 [reasoning that a claim for punitive damages must be pleaded with particularity].) Finally, there are no allegations as to who wasaware of the habitability issues within the property and whether that person’s conduct is attributable to either of the corporate entities.Based on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED in its entirety. Plaintiff is GRANTED leave to amend. Plaintiff is ordered to file an amended complaint within 20 days of notice of this order.