  Case Number:  21STCV35157    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL
  REPAIR,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
PER PARTNERS LIMITED LP,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV35157
  Hearing Date:  February 14, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants armistead & companies,
  ltd.’s and romac supply co., inc.’s demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 23, 2021, Plaintiff
General Industrial Repair filed a complaint against Defendants Per Partners
Limited LP, David B. Rosenfield, and Angelina A. Rosenfield alleging the
following causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment;
(4) intentional misrepresentation; and (5) negligent misrepresentation. 
            The dispute arises from a lease agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant Per Partners Limited LP. Defendant David
Rosenfield is allegedly a general partner of Per Partners. Plaintiff leased a
business premises from Per Partners starting in October 2007. The lease was a
five-year lease, but the parties agreed to a five-year extension in October
2012, extending the lease to October 2017. Plaintiff alleges that around
September 2017, the parties entered into another five-year extension that
extended the lease to October 2022. Defendants did not sign this second
extension agreement, but Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Angie Rosenfield
assured Plaintiff that if Plaintiff became current on rent payments and made
certain repairs, the lease would be extended to 2022. Plaintiff allegedly
relied on this representation to continue paying rent and making additional improvements
to the premises. 
            In June 2021, Defendant David
Rosenfield notified Plaintiff that Defendant Per Partners was terminating the
lease. Per Partners apparently deemed the lease to be a month-to-month contract
despite the alleged extension to 2022. Plaintiff’s breach of contract and fraud
claims stem from the premature termination of the lease and Defendants’
misrepresentations that the lease would be extended to 2022. 
            On February 10, 2022, Per Partners filed
a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and its principal, alleging breach of
contract, damage to real property, conversion, negligence, private nuisance,
and declaratory relief.  
            On July 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed
amendments to the complaint adding Armistead & Companies, Ltd. and Romac
Supply Co., Inc. as defendants. Armistead and Romac filed a motion to quash the
Doe amendments, but the Court denied this motion on October 30, 2023.
            On December 29, 2023, Armistead and Romac
filed separate but identical demurrers to the complaint. Plaintiff filed its
opposition on January 31, 2024. Armistead and Romac filed their reply on
February 6, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court notes
that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Bubman
Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
            Armistead and Romac demur to the
fourth and fifth causes of action for intentional and negligent
misrepresentation, the only causes of action asserted against Doe defendants. Armistead
and Romac argue that there are no facts alleged pertaining specifically to them
and that the agency allegations in the complaint are deficient. The complaint
alleges that “[a]t all relevant times herein, each of the Defendants was the
agent or employee of each of its co-defendants, and in doing the things
mentioned, was acting in the course and scope of their authority as an agent or
employee and with the authorization, permission and consent of their
co-defendants.” (Compl. ¶ 8.) 
                        1. Agency
“Agency exists when a principal engages an
agent to act on the principal's behalf and subject to its control. The
essential elements necessary to establish an agency relationship are manifestation
of consent by one person to another that the other shall act on his [or her]
behalf and subject to his [or her] control, and consent by the other so to
act.” (Church Mutual Ins. Co., S.I. v. GuideOne Specialty Mutual Ins. Co. (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 1042, 1062, internal citations omitted.) Armistead and Romac
argue that the complaint does not allege any facts establishing these elements.
However, “the existence of an agency relationship is typically a question of
fact.” (Ibid.) “Generally, an allegation of agency is an allegation of
ultimate fact and is, of itself, sufficient to avoid a demurrer.” (Garton v.
Title Ins. & Trust Co. (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 365, 376.) The allegations
contained in paragraph 8 of the complaint are sufficient to support a
reasonable inference that each of the defendants acted as an agent of the
others. The particular facts evidencing an agency relationship between any two
defendants may be ascertained in discovery. Plaintiff is not required to prove
anything at the pleading stage. 
Armistead and Romac do not dispute that liability
for fraud may be established through agency. The complaint alleges fraud in
relation to specific statements made by Defendants David and Angie Rosenfield. Armistead
and Romac do not contend that the allegations are insufficient to state a claim
for fraud; they only argue that the allegations are insufficient to demonstrate
they committed fraud. But because the complaint must be read as a whole
and interpreted liberally, it may be reasonably inferred that the Rosenfields
were speaking on behalf of Armistead and Romac when they made the purported
misrepresentations. (See Compl. ¶ 8.) The fraud claims incorporate all prior
allegations, which includes the agency allegation. (Id., ¶¶ 45, 56.)
            2.
Doe Amendment 
Armistead and Romac argue that it is impossible
for the complaint to state sufficient facts against them because they were Does,
and Plaintiff had previously claimed that it was ignorant of the facts giving
rise to liability against them. Armistead and Romac argue that this means the
complaint’s facts can only relate to the other defendants who were named at the
outset—David and Angie Rosenfield, and Per Partners. 
However, the facts pertaining to the fraud
itself were already adequately pled in the complaint and clearly asserted against
all defendants, including Does. Therefore, those allegations do not need to be
amended. Plaintiff is entitled to allege that the Rosenfields were speaking on behalf
of all defendants, including Does, even before it discovers which Does should
be included in the fraud claims. On a demurrer, the allegations are assumed true,
no matter how improbable. Once Plaintiff discovered the facts connecting Armistead
and Romac to the other defendants and executed the Doe amendments, it was free
to maintain the existing fraud allegations if it believed that Armistead and
Romac are liable through the same purported misrepresentations. Plaintiff’s
claim of ignorance in support of its Doe amendment does not equate to an
admission that the fraud claims are inadequately pled. Therefore, the fraud
claims have been adequately pled against Armistead and Romac.      
CONCLUSION
            The demurrers filed by Defendants Armistead
& Companies, Ltd. and Romac Supply Co., Inc. are OVERRULED. 