 Case Number:  21STCV36602    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
VAROUJ SHEKERDEMIAN,
                        Shekerdemian,
            v.
 
DESAI HOLDINGS USA, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV36602
  Hearing Date:  February 14, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Shekerdemian’s motion to compel compliance
  and for sanctions  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 5, 2021, Varouj
Shekerdemian filed this action against Desai Holdings USA, LLC dba R Bar and
Rakesh David Desai, alleging the following causes of action: (1) failure to provide
accurate wage records; (2) unfair business practices; (3) constructive
discharge; and (4-5) intentional/negligent infliction of emotional distress. The
operative First Amended Complaint, filed May 27, 2022, adds causes of action
for discrimination, harassment, and violation of civil rights. 
            Shekerdemian alleges that Desai
hired him as the general manager at R Bar. Desai did not classify or pay Shekerdemian
as an employee but rather as an independent contractor. Desai initially ignored
Shekerdemian’s requests to be properly classified but eventually put Shekerdemian
on the payroll as a traditional exempt employee. During Shekerdemian’s
employment, Desai was allegedly abusive and racist towards Shekerdemian and R
Bar’s employees and patrons. This resulted in multiple altercations, causing Shekerdemian
to fear for his safety. Shekerdemian eventually resigned due to the hostile
work environment. After Shekerdemian quit, Desai allegedly continued harassing Shekerdemian
through racist and vulgar text messages and also visited Shekerdemian’s new place
of employment. 
            On June 13, 2023, R Bar and Desai
filed a complaint against Shekerdemian (23LBCV01084). The complaint asserts (1)
breach of fiduciary duty, (2) intentional interference with business relations,
(3) contractual interference, (4) conversion, and (5) unfair competition. The complaint
alleges that Shekerdemian appointed himself as head of R Bar, harassed customers,
stole restaurant property, and tried to poach R Bar employees to Shekerdemian’s
own business. The two cases have been deemed related, with this case
(21STCV36602) as the lead case. 
            On November 20, 2023, the Court
granted Shekerdemian’s motion to compel further responses from R Bar as to
requests for production, ordering responses within 15 days and imposing sanctions.
R Bar did not serve further responses until after the Court’s imposed deadline,
and then failed to produce any documents despite making statements of compliance
in the supplemental responses. 
            On December 27, 2023, Shekerdemian
filed the instant motion against R Bar to compel compliance and for monetary
and nonmonetary sanctions. R Bar has not filed an opposition brief, but its
counsel filed a response declaration on January 31, 2024. Shekerdemian’s
counsel filed a reply declaration on February 7, 2024.   
LEGAL STANDARD
            “If
a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling . . . thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding
party may move for an order compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.320(a).) 
The Court may impose monetary or
nonmonetary sanctions against a party engaging in misuse of the discovery
process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) Misuse of the discovery process is
defined as, among other things, failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery, making an evasive response to discovery, or disobeying a court order
for discovery. (Id., § 2023.010.) If a lesser sanction fails to curb
misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery
process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached
that will curb the abuse. (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th
967, 992.) “The penalty should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should
not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled
to but denied discovery.” (Wilson v. Jefferson (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d
952, 959.) Generally, two facts are prerequisite to the imposition of
nonmonetary sanctions: (1) there must be a failure to comply with a court order;
and (2) the failure must be willful. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) 
DISCUSSION
            R Bar does not deny that it failed
to produce supplemental responses within the time ordered by the Court. R Bar
further does not dispute that it responded with statements of compliance and then
failed to actually produce the documents. 
            R Bar’s counsel avers that in
response to this motion, he “produced every single document I received from
Named Defendants from the inception of this case.” (Rudd Decl. ¶ 2.) Counsel
further avers that “[i]f there are other legitimate shortcomings with Named
Defendants’ past discovery responses, I can fix them very quickly.” (Ibid.)
Counsel’s declaration suggests that his health issues may have generally made
handling his caseload more difficult. (Id., ¶¶ 3-5.) 
However, there is no explanation related
to the specific discovery requests at issue.  Additionally, under the Rules of Professional
Conduct, a lawyer must perform legal services “competently,” which is defined
as having the “mental, emotional, and physical ability reasonably necessary for
the performance of such service.” (Rule 1.1(a), (b).) A lawyer shall withdraw
if “the lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult
to carry out the representation effectively.” (Rule 1.16(a)(3).) Counsel declares
that he has “no plans to withdraw from this matter” and has “the bandwidth I
need” to continue this litigation. (Id., ¶ 6.) That being the case, R
Bar is expected to timely comply with its discovery obligations. Shekerdemian
is not required to sustain continuous delays. Plaintiff’s counsel avers that he
was not served with defense counsel’s declaration and has not received any
document production in response to this motion. (Tokar Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) 
            The Court finds that the requested nonmonetary
sanctions are disproportionate at this stage. However, those sanctions remain
possible should R Bar continue to defy its discovery obligations or the Court’s
orders. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are warranted. Shekerdemian
reasonably requests $3,561.65. (See Tokar Decl. ¶ 17.)  
CONCLUSION
            Shekerdemian’s motion to compel compliance
is GRANTED. R Bar shall produce documents responsive to RFP Nos. 1, 2, and 8-48
within 15 days. 
            Shekerdemian’s motion for sanctions
is GRANTED in part. The Court sanctions R Bar and its counsel in the amount of $3,561.65,
to be paid within 30 days. Nonmonetary sanctions are denied.  
             