 Case Number:  23STCV07020    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32      LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,                         Plaintiff,             v.   ADVANCED LABS, INC., et    al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  23STCV07020   Hearing Date:  February 14, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoena                BACKGROUND             On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood  Santa Fe, LLC filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs, Inc. and  Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty.             On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed  the instant motion to quash a subpoena issued to nonparty Preferred Bank.  Defendants filed their opposition on January 31, 2024. Plaintiff filed its  reply on February 6, 2024.  LEGAL STANDARD “If a subpoena requires the attendance of  a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party]  . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or  directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall  declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a),  (b).) Good cause must be shown to compel a nonparty to produce documents. (See Calcor  Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)    DISCUSSION             The subpoena at issue requests the  following categories of documents: applications, documents, agreements, and  communications pertaining to the 2021 and 2022 loans; financing proposals,  appraisals of the subject property, and all other documents relating to the  property from January 1, 2017 to present; and the entire file on the property.  (Gershman Decl., Ex. 2.)              Plaintiff contends that the requests  are overbroad and irrelevant considering the nature of the case—i.e., a  landlord seeking recovery for years of unpaid rent. Plaintiff argues that its  loans and financing of the property are not related to the tenant’s leasing of  the property.              Defendant argues that the documents  are relevant because while Defendant was supposedly defaulting on rent  payments, Plaintiff was able to obtain two loans from Preferred Bank. Defendant  explains that banks typically do not finance non-performing properties lacking  rental income, and thus, the documents Plaintiff submitted to qualify for the  loans are directly relevant to refute its claim for unpaid rent.              Defendant also argues that because  Plaintiff seeks damages of future rent, Defendant is entitled to records  pertaining to Plaintiff’s mitigation efforts to re-lease or sell the property.  In particular, Defendant argues that as part of the loan application process, Preferred  Bank likely obtained information on actual or potential tenants, lease rates,  market conditions, property values, and other indicia of value. Defendant  contends that the loan agreements are also relevant to determining if Preferred  Bank has imposed any conditions that impede Plaintiff’s mitigation efforts.  While this explanation constitutes good  cause for the particular records pertaining to rent payments and mitigation  efforts, Defendant does not articulate the need for “all other documents” related  to the property or the “entire file” on the property. In fact, after this  motion was filed, Defendant served a second subpoena to Preferred Bank,  narrowing the documents sought. (Gershman Reply Decl., Ex. 23.) This shows that  Defendant is aware the subpoena should be narrowly tailored to seek only the  documents that it actually needs.      CONCLUSION             Plaintiff’s motion to quash is GRANTED.  The subpoena issued to Preferred Bank on November 1, 2023 is quashed in its  entirety. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial  justification. 


 
LYNWOOD SANTA FE, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ADVANCED LABS, INC., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV07020
  Hearing Date:  February 14, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant advanced nutrients ltd.’s
  motion for relief from waiver of objections and for a protective order  




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lynwood
Santa Fe, LLC filed this action against Defendants Advanced Labs, Inc. and
Advanced Nutrients Ltd. for breach of lease and breach of guaranty.

            On January 22, 2024, Defendant
Advanced Nutrients Ltd. filed the instant motion for relief from the waiver of
objections and for the imposition of a protective order. Plaintiff filed its opposition
on January 31, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on February 6, 2024.

DISCUSSION

I.
Relief from Waiver

A party who fails to timely respond to
interrogatories waives any objection to the interrogatories, unless both of the
following conditions are satisfied: (1) the party subsequently served a substantially
compliant response; and (2) the failure to timely respond was caused by
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(a).)

Defendant failed to timely respond to
Special Interrogatories Set Two and presently seeks relief from the waiver of
objections. The Court finds that Defendant has served substantially compliant
responses. (See Def.’s Ex. 10.) The Court further finds that the belated
responses were caused by mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Current
defense counsel substituted in approximately one week before responses were
due. (Id., ¶ 5.) Prior counsel did not inform current counsel of the
subject interrogatories. (Id., ¶ 21.) The interrogatories were also mislabeled
as “Set One” even though it is the second set. (Id., ¶ 28.) Lastly,
interrogatories were inadvertently overlooked by the paralegal responsible for
receiving discovery and calendaring deadlines. (Loaiza Decl. ¶ 6.) The Court
finds that these facts are sufficient to warrant relief. (See Renteria v.
Juvenile Justice, Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 903, 911.) 

II.
Protective Order

            A party is ordinarily limited to
propounding 35 special interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030(b).) A
responding party need not respond to more than the first 35 special
interrogatories, unless a declaration justifying the additional interrogatories
is made. (Id., §§ 2030.030(c), 2030.040(a), 2030.050.) The responding party
may move for a protective order, and on good cause shown, the Court may “make
any order that justice requires to protect any party or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090(a), (b).) “If the responding
party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of specially
prepared interrogatories is unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the
burden of justifying the number of these interrogatories.” (Id., §
2030.040(b).)  

            Here, Defendant objects to interrogatory
numbers 108 through 130. (Def.’s Ex. 10.) However, the Court finds that the number
of interrogatories is proportionate to the complexity of the case and amount in
controversy. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration sufficiently explains the
necessity of the additional interrogatories. (See Def.’s Ex. 1, p. 13.) The Court
does not find that responding to the interrogatories would subject Defendant to
“unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090(a), (b).) In fact, Defendant has already
responded to the subject interrogatories, as discussed above. Therefore, a
protective order excusing Defendant from responding is not warranted. The
substance of the requests and responses can be addressed in a motion to compel
further if Plaintiff decides to file one after the appropriate meet and confer.


CONCLUSION

            Defendant’s motion for relief from
waiver is GRANTED. Defendant’s motion for protective order is DENIED. Sanctions
are denied as the parties acted with substantial justification.  