  Case Number:  23SMCV00044    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
C.H. v. Regents of
the University of California, Case No. 23SMCV00044
Hearing Date October
12, 2023
Defendants’ Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint 
 
Plaintiff,
inpatient at UCLA Neuropsychiatric Hospital, alleges another patient sexually
assaulted her. She sues defendants Regents and Laurie R. Casaus, M.D., who
worked at the facility. 
 
On June 7, 2023 the
court sustained a demurrer to the first through fourth causes of action in the
first amended complaint on government immunity grounds. C.H. was instructed to
“set forth a specific regulation or statute triggering the §855 exception for
the first through fourth causes of action.” Defendants demur to plaintiff’s
second amended complaint (SAC). 
 
“Public entities
have broad immunity from liability for injuries suffered by an inpatient of a
mental institution.” State Dept. of State Hospitals v. Superior Court of
Napa County (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 1069. These immunities are set forth in
Cal. Gov. Code §854.8, which states a public entity is not liable for injury to
or proximately caused by a patient of a mental institution. Exceptions include
liability for failing to provide adequate equipment, personnel or facilities equivalent
to those required by statute or regulation and liability for a dangerous
condition of public property. Cal. Gov. Code §854.8(c ), 855. The exception for
failure to provide adequate equipment, personnel or facilities requires
plaintiff to identify a statute or regulation that sets a specific minimum
standard, rather than a general duty, for staffing or facilities. State Dept.,
supra, 84 Cal. App.5th at 1076.
 
A public entity is
exempt from liability for injury resulting from a determination of whether to
confine a person for mental illness or the terms and conditions of that confinement.
Cal. Gov. Code §856. A public entity may be liable for a dangerous condition of
public property, even where the immediate cause of injury is a third party’s
negligent or illegal act, if some physical characteristic of the property exposes
users to increased danger from third party negligence or criminality. Mison
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 124, 131. 
 
Failure to Provide
Adequate Equipment, Personnel or Facilities (Gov. Code §855(a))
The SAC identifies
numerous equipment/personnel regulations defendants allegedly violated,
triggering the §855 exception. SAC ¶19. However, the SAC merely lists the
regulations, without elaborating on what each requires. It does not allege how
defendants breached each regulation or how the alleged breaches caused
plaintiff’s injury. This is too vague to establish an exception to the public
entity immunity in Gov. Code §854.8. Defendants cannot respond to a claim of
liability under §855 if the factual basis of that alleged liability is not
clearly alleged. No further leave to amend will be granted, since this is
plaintiff’s third attempt to adequately plead the challenged cause of action. SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
Elder
Abuse/Dependent Adult Claim 
Cal. Welf. &
Inst. Code §15610.57 states a person having “care or custody of an elder or
dependent adult” may be liable for neglect for “failure to protect from health
and safety hazards.” As a statutory cause of action, a claim for neglect or
abuse of a dependent adult must be pleaded with particularity. Carter v.
Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410.
 
Plaintiff alleges
a statutory cause of action for dependent adult abuse/elder abuse against defendant
Casaus, which is subject to heightened particularity requirements. The SAC
alleges “[d]efendants and each of them knew and were aware of the dangerous
propensities and prior erratic behavior of Plaintiff’s assailant yet
consciously disregarded the risk this posed to Plaintiff as well as others.”
SAC at ¶33. This is vague. The allegations lump defendants together, failing to
specify action(s) Casaus allegedly took or failed to take that exposed
plaintiff to increased danger or caused her assault. The allegations fall short
of the particularity requirement. SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Medical
Malpractice 
Defendants argue
Casaus is entitled to the same statutory immunity held by the Regents. Under
Cal. Gov. Code §856, “[n]either a public entity nor a public employee acting
within the scope of his employment” is liable for injury resulting from
determining “whether to confine a person for mental illness or addiction,” or
“[t]he terms and conditions of confinement for mental illness or addiction.”
Cal. Gov. Code §856. 
 
This immunity does
not apply. Plaintiff’s claim against Casaus is not based on a determination
whether to confine plaintiff or the terms and conditions of the confinement,
but rather that Casaus was aware of the risk to plaintiff but took no steps to
prevent it. SAC ¶43. Immunity under §854.8 is unavailable, since the statute
states “[n]othing in this section exonerates a public employee from liability
for injury proximately caused by his negligent or wrongful act or omission.” OVERRULED.

 
Dangerous
Condition 
Cal. Gov. Code §854.8
bars public entity liability for a dangerous condition of public property claim
brought by an inpatient of a mental institution. Cal. Gov. Code §854.8(c).
Since plaintiff was inpatient, her causes of action based on an alleged
dangerous condition cannot proceed. SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Negligent Hiring 
Plaintiff alleges the
elements of a negligent hiring cause of action –that Casaus hired and/or
supervised unfit employees at the facility, causing plaintiff’s alleged
injuries. SAC ¶¶44-48. On demurrer, defendants argue this claim fails because
Casaus was an employee of the Regents and had no hiring authority. This factual
argument is not proper on demurrer, where all allegations must be treated as
true. OVERRULED. 