 Case Number:  23SMCV02981    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Crestwood Hills
Assoc. v. Broumand, et al., Case No. 23SMCV02981
Hearing Date
October 12, 2023
Plaintiff
Crestwood Hills’ Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff
Crestwood Hills alleges the Broumand defendants are building a home that
violates community CC&Rs. Crestwood moves to compel arbitration pursuant to
the arbitration clause in the community’s 2022 architectural guidelines. 
 
If an enforceable
written arbitration agreement between parties is before a court, the court must
grant a motion to compel arbitration if it determines the agreement applies to
the parties’ controversy. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §1281.2. California law
strongly favors the enforcement of arbitration agreements. Weiler v. Marcus
& Millichamp Real Estate Investment Services, Inc. (2018) 232 Cal.Rptr
3d, 155, 162. 

Crestwood Hill’s 2022 guidelines contain an arbitration clause requiring “all
disputes arising from or related to these Guidelines, the architectural
provisions of the CC&Rs, or any decision made by the Architectural
Committee” to be settled by arbitration. Exhibit 7. 
 
Broumand argues
the arbitration clause is unenforceable, since it is not part of the CC&Rs.
He notes Crestwood unilaterally adopted the 2022 guidelines without following
the procedures for amending the CC&Rs. Broumand argues the arbitration
clause should have been added to the CC&Rs via vote of property owners to
be enforceable.
 
Crestwood acknowledges
the arbitration clause is not part of the CC&Rs but argues it was adopted
via guidelines issued by the Board. Crestwood argues the CC&Rs gives the
Board power to issue guidelines. Paragraph 6 of the CC&Rs establishes an
Architectural Committee to approve or disapprove new construction in the
community. Crestwood argues this implies the power to promulgate binding
guidelines governing resolution of construction disputes. Blackman decl. ¶6, exh.
7 §16.5.
 
The Davis-Stirling
Act gives the board of a common interest community the ability to adopt an
“operating rule” governing “procedures adopted by the association for
resolution of disputes” without formally amending the CC&Rs if the rule is
“within the authority of the board conferred by law” or the CC&Rs and is
adopted according to specific statutory procedures. Cal. Civ. Code §§4340,
4350, 4355(a)(5) and 4360.
 
Broumand argues
Crestwood admitted the Davis-Stirling Act does not apply, citing Crestwood’s
responses to requests for admission. Braunstein decl., exh. Q. However, it is
not clear which response(s) contains this admission.
 
The Davis-Stirling
Act applies to common interest communities, which are created when the terms set
forth in §4200 of the Act are fulfilled. The original CC&Rs here fulfill
those requirements, so Davis-Stirling applies. Blackman decl., exh. 1. Under Davis
Stirling, a community board can adopt a rule governing resolution of disputes,
such as an arbitration clause, without amending the CC&Rs. 
Plaintiff’s 2022
guidelines, including the arbitration clause, were validly adopted by the Board
under Davis-Stirling. Contrary to Broumand’s argument, their adoption was not
procedurally unconscionable, as it is permitted by statute. 
 
Broumand argues
the Association lacks standing to enforce the guidelines. The CC&Rs state
their terms can be enforced by the original developer “Mutual Housing
Association, Inc” (MHA). Blackman decl., exh. 1, pg. 2. Crestwood is MHA’s successor-in-interest,
with MHA assigning enforcement powers to Crestwood in 1957. Blackman decl. ¶3,
exhs. 4 and 5. 
 
Broumand argues
under BCE Dev., Inc. v. Smith (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1142, a
successor-in-interest to an enforcement entity created by CC&Rs lacks
enforcement power unless the CC&Rs manifest a “clear intent” regarding the
power of successor entities. This misstates BCE. The court stated
“[e]nforcement of mutual covenants may be achieved by successors in interest to
original interests,” with no “clear intent” qualification. BCE, supra at
1146. The “clear intent” language appears elsewhere in BCE and applies
to the initial creation of an enforcement agency that does not own land within
the affected development. Id. at 1149. The CC&Rs include language
showing a “clear intent” to create an enforcement entity. Crestwood, as that
entity’s successor, can enforce guidelines created under the authority of the
CC&Rs. 
 
Broumand argues
the arbitration clause is substantively unconscionable, since it deprives
defendants of the right to a jury trial, only allows “such reasonable discovery
as is mutually agreed or as allowed by the arbitrator,” requires costs to be
split evenly and allows injunctive relief to be sought in court, outside of
arbitration. Waiver of jury trial is inherent in any arbitration agreement, so
cannot be unconscionable. The cost-splitting and discovery provisions are
mutual and do not favor either side; they are not unconscionable. See
Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 249. 
 
The court agrees
the provision allowing injunctive relief to be sought in court rather than
within the arbitration is unconscionable, as it favors the side more likely to
request injunctive relief -- Crestwood. Because there is only one
unconscionable term, the entire agreement is not “permeated” with
unconscionability and remains enforceable. See Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023)
91 Cal.App.5th 482, 486. The unconscionable term will be severed.
 
Broumand argues
Crestwood waived its right to compel arbitration by filing a complaint in Superior
Court, rather than an arbitration demand. A party waives its right to arbitrate
when it “substantially invokes” the litigation machinery before moving to
arbitrate. Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 20 Cal.App.4th
1193, 1204. 
 
Plaintiff did not
substantially invoke the litigation machinery. It moved to compel arbitration
promptly after filing the action before meaningful litigation activity occurred.
Broumand argues Crestwood waived the right to arbitrate by filing the lawsuit
two years after the initial dispute arose. Unreasonable delay can lead to a
waiver of arbitration rights. Spear v. California State Auto Ass’n. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 1035, 1043. 
 
The declaration from
attorney Glen Kulik states substantial efforts were made to resolve the matter
without litigation, causing the delay before the lawsuit was filed. Kulik decl.
¶¶2-7. This is evidence Crestwood’s delay was not unreasonable, and Crestwood
did not waive its right to arbitrate. GRANTED.