 Case Number:  22STCV08835    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA IMMEDIATE MEDICAL CENTER, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV08835
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: December 8, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Southern
California Immediate Medical Center (“SCIMC”) and Thomas Roccapalumbo, D.O.
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Plaintiff
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
The currently operative third amended complaint (the “TAC”) alleges:
(1) invasion of privacy; (2) sexual battery; (3) negligent hiring and
retention; and (4) premises liability.
 
In relevant part, the TAC alleges: as part of a job application,
Plaintiff visited SCIMC to complete a physical exam and a drug test.  (TAC ¶¶ 8-9.)  Plaintiff had not previously been informed
that she would be required to undergo an x-ray, but was falsely instructed by
one of Moving Defendants’ employees that she needed to submit to an
unauthorized x-ray examination.  (See TAC
¶¶ 11-12.)  The x-ray technician who
oversaw the procedure sexually assaulted Plaintiff during the x-ray
examination.  (See TAC ¶¶ 13-18.)
 
Moving Defendants
filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the first and fourth causes of action on
the grounds that the TAC fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause
of action.  Moving Defendants also filed a
motion to strike (the “Motion”) portions of the TAC.
 
DEMURRER
Meet and Confer
The meet and confer requirement has
been met for the Demurrer and Motion.
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court
accepts as true all material factual allegations and affords them a liberal
construction, but it does not consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions,
speculation, or allegations contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.  (Shea
Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246,
1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the
complaint must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the
facts pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
First Cause of Action
An action for
intrusion has two elements: (1) intrusion into a private place, conversation or
matter; and (2) in a manner highly offensive to a reasonable person.  (Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop
Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.)   
 
Under the sham pleading doctrine,
plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful allegations,
without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks raised in
demurrers.  (Larson v. UHS of Rancho
Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 343.)
 
Moving Defendants
argue that the TAC improperly changed the identity of the individual who
directed Plaintiff to submit to an unauthorized x-ray exam from a “doctor” as
was alleged in the earlier iteration of the pleading to an “employee.”  Moving Defendants further argue that the TAC
does not allege that they ratified the unnamed employee’s conduct.  
 
The Court is not
persuaded by either of these arguments at this stage in the proceedings.  First, Plaintiff’s opposition (the “Demurrer
Opposition”) explains that the TAC corrected an error in the previous pleading
that misidentified the employee as a doctor. 
Further, the employee’s job title, absent a consideration of outside
facts that are inappropriate to be considered at the pleading stage, does not
impact the analysis of Moving Defendants’ ratification of the alleged
conduct.  Lastly, the TAC’s allegation
that Moving Defendants had a policy of ordering patients to submit to
unauthorized x-rays is sufficient to allege that Moving Defendants ratified the
conduct.  (See TAC ¶ 26.)  The Court therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to
the first cause of action. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action
The elements of a
negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of
care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.  (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)
 
Where a party has
alleged the existence of but one primary right, and but one violation of that
right, the complaint states but one cause of action, even though two or more
theories of recovery are alleged.  (Plotnik v. Meihaus (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1612.)  A duplicative cause of action that adds
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery may be challenged
by demurrer.  (See Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)
 
The premises liability
claim is based on the same alleged wrongful conduct as the negligent hiring and
retention claim.  The Court therefore
finds that the premises liability claim is duplicative of the negligent hiring
claim and SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the fourth cause of action without leave to
amend. 
 


 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Legal Standard
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 436, a motion to
strike either: (1) strikes any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strikes any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court. 
(CCP § 436.)
 
Moving Defendants
seek to strike the allegations concerning punitive damages.
 
Punitive Damages
A plaintiff may
recover punitive damages in an action for breach of an obligation not arising
from contract when the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  Malice is conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff, or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile,
base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.) 
Oppression is defined as despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  
 
 
            Under CCP section 425.13,
subdivision (a), in any action for damages arising out of the professional
negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be
included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court enters an order
allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages to be
filed.  (CCP § 425.13, subd. (a).)  The court may allow the filing of an amended
pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended
pleading and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented
that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil
Code.  (Id.)  A claim arises out of professional negligence
if the injury that is the basis for the claim was caused by conduct that was
directly related to the rendition of professional services.  (Divino Plastic Surgery, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 972, 984.) 
Identifying a cause of action as an intentional tort as opposed to
negligence does not itself remove the claim from the requirements of section
425.13, subdivision (a).  (Id.)  The allegations that identify the nature and
cause of a plaintiff's injury must be examined to determine whether each is
directly related to the manner in which professional services were provided.  (Id.)
 
            Upon consideration of the
allegations underlying the TAC’s request for punitive damages, the Court finds
that Moving Defendants’ alleged conduct falls within the ambit of CCP section
425.13, subdivision (a).  The alleged
conduct—the policy of ordering patients to submit to unauthorized x-rays—is
directly related to the rendition of professional services.  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion to
strike the punitive damages allegations. 
If Plaintiff wishes to pursue punitive damages, she may seek a court
order in accordance with CCP section 425.13. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 8th day of December 2023
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 
 