  Case Number:  BP063500    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE  
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON MOTION OF FORMER TRUSTEES RE: ADMISSIBILITY OF NEW EVIDENCE IN ATTORNEYS’
FEES PHASE OF TRIAL  
 
In re: Mark Hughes
Family Trust dated September 3, 1987, Case No. BP063500 
Hearing Date: June
14, 2024, 10:00 a.m. 
 
STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS           
 
          On May 22,
2024, Former Trustees filed this motion for an order permitting their
introducing certain new evidence - at the upcoming attorneys’ fees phase of the
trial on the petition to surcharge Former Trustees - concerning an all-cash
offer on February 8, 2024 by Zach Vella to purchase the Tower Grove property from
the Trust for $105 million without contingencies, including title insurance.[1] The
current successor trustee of the Trust, Fiduciary Trust International of
California (“FTI”), apparently elected not to entertain that offer. Former
Trustees contend FTI’s not having responded to this offer was in breach of
their duty to mitigate damages that are sought in the surcharge trial. (Spurgeon
v. Drumheller (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 659, 665) (the seller of property has a
duty to exercise diligence and to re-sell within the shortest time possible.) They
assert that this duty continues through trial. 
          Former
Trustees argue further that acceptance of this offer would eclipse the $76.5
million valuation of the Property by the Court in its April 5, 2023 Final
Statement of Decision after the phase of trial concerning what offset Former
Trustees were entitled to by reason of FTI having recovered the Property. 
          In addition, Former Trustees contend that it
would be unfair to them to not allow the introduction of this new evidence
where Beneficiary was allowed at a late date to seek additional damages, not
previously requested, as surcharge representing losses from phantom income
taxes due to how Former Trustees had sold the Property. 
          On June 3,
2024, Beneficiary filed opposition to the motion. He contends that this new
evidence has no relevance to the issues to be decided at the upcoming
attorneys’ fees phase of trial. 
          Beneficiary
contends that this motion is merely seeking to re-open a now concluded phase of
trial that considered the value of the Property as of July 14, 2022. Though
Former Trustees contend they are not seeking to re-open trial, Beneficiary
argues this is exactly what they are seeking by contending that the Court’s
determination of value (and the amount of offset) was too low. Beneficiary
argues FTI’s duty to mitigate damages was decided already -- in conjunction
with deciding the damages the Trust incurred (in a still earlier phase of
trial) and again in determining the amount of offset. He argues that FTI is no
longer under a duty to mitigate where the Court has already tried that issue
and offset that value against what the Court found would have been the Trust’s
damages. (Seaboard Music v. Germano (1972) 24 Cal.App.3d 618, 623) The
cases Former Trustees rely on do not concern a duty to mitigate after
trial. He disputes that there is any forthcoming phase of trial pertaining to
mitigation of damages. 
          Beneficiary
also questions the bona fides of the Vella Offer where Vella is represented by
the same lawyer who represented certain parties with which FTI was in
litigation for some twenty years concerning the Property - the fees for which
are the subject of the upcoming phase of trial. The failure to mitigate
argument assumes FTI should have accepted the Offer. Mitigation does not
require a party to not exercise ordinary care. (Guerreri v. Severini
(1958) 51 Cal.2d 12, 23) 
          On June 7,
2024, Former Trustees filed a Reply. They argue that the defenses of offset and
duty to mitigate are distinct and that therefore they continue to have the
right to put on this defense to the claim of damages. In turn, they contend
they anticipated trying failure to mitigate in this third phase of trial
concerning attorney’s fees. They reject Beneficiary’s claim that there would no
longer be any duty to mitigate after completion of the offset trial where the
attorneys’ fees trial has not yet begun and that any cut-off on mitigation
would be as of the latter date. 
 
DISCUSSION 
          The Court
finds any duty to mitigate damages arising from the Vella Offer is irrelevant
to the issues in the attorneys’ fees phase of trial. Former Trustees have not
shown how this new evidence would have any effect on whether attorneys’ fees in
prior litigation should be permitted as damages. 
          Whether in
some future proceeding Former Trustees might make this claim is doubtful: 
          First, If
the theory is in effect that the offset should be higher, the Court has already
tried that issue and filed a Final Statement of Decision. Moreover, the offset
was based on a July 14, 2002 valuation date – as close to the start of trial as
was reasonable given that there would need to be appraisals conducted and
discovery concerning those appraisals before trial could in fact begin.[2] What
the value might be based on a later offer, if even relevant to show value, after
trial, does not change the amount of offset. 
          Second, to
the extent that Former Trustees are asserting a post-trial continuing duty to
mitigate damages arising from ownership of the Property, the cases they cite do
not establish that proposition. Former Trustees have already received the
benefit from the value of the Property by way of receipt of an offset. Even
assuming for sake of argument (generally speaking) a duty to mitigate is
separate from an offset, that is complicated here where the offset amount
represents the value of the same asset that would be the subject of sale by way
of any continuing duty to mitigate. Essentially, Former Trustees would increase
the offset based on an event after the valuation date and after trial – which
would not seem permissible. The issues are overlapping. 
          Whether
Former Trustees can still claim a failure to mitigate in not responding to the
Offer cannot be decided on this limited motion. While the Court acknowledges
the whole trial has not been completed, and no final order has entered
concerning surcharge arising from Tower Grove (that might still allow Former
Trustees to pursue this claim), that does not necessarily mean there is still a
continuing duty to mitigate damages after the Court has concluded the offset
part of trial. Again, this is an issue not appropriately decided by way of whether
witnesses and exhibits can be added for the attorneys’ fees phase of trial.  
          Third, Former
Trustees have not identified any order for future phase of trial based on
failure to mitigate – even if they have indicated there should be.[3]
The parties long ago agreed to a surcharge trial plan based on different
subjects, as opposed to by accounting periods. Any issue related to mitigation
would need to pertain to those specific subjects. In turn, by stipulation filed
December 23, 2021, the parties agreed as to surcharges arising from Tower
Grove, there would be three phases of trial. The Court has already heard whatever
issues were raised related to mitigation in determining the issues it has
decided already. 
          Fourth, in
determining that this new evidence cannot be considered - at least as part of
the attorneys’ fees phase of trial - the Court is acting consistent with how it
addressed Beneficiary’s belated claim for additional damages arising from
payment of phantom income taxes that arose from the wrongful conduct that was
the basis for surcharge – which will be a fourth phase of trial concerning
Tower Grove. While the Court did not require Beneficiary to have to file a new
petition for those damages, the Court agreed that Former Trustees would be
first entitled to conduct discovery and bring a motion for summary judgment as
to that claim before having to defend that claim at trial. The same would be
true here: Beneficiary would be entitled to conduct discovery and motion
practice on this new claim – consistent with what the Court allowed the parties
to engage in concerning the new theory Beneficiary asserted based on payment of
phantom income taxes prior to that issue going to trial.[4] It
is apparent there would be substantial dispute that FTI deciding not to respond
to the Offer would necessarily mean it did not mitigate its damages. 
          Hearing this
new evidence would also unnecessarily delay trial. The upcoming attorneys’ fees
phase of trial scheduled to commence on June 24, 2024 was originally scheduled
to have started on October 16, 2023. Trial did not proceed at that time based
on counsel having advised the Court that the parties had reached a settlement
in principle. Ultimately, the parties were not able to reach an agreement and
the Court rescheduled trial. The Court is not going to allow further delay of
this phase of trial by reason of a theory that would at minimum require preparation
by the parties beforehand.  
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these reasons, the motion is
denied. The Court also treats the opposition as a motion in limine to exclude
this evidence from the attorneys’ fees phase of trial as irrelevant and grants
that motion. 
 
 


