  Case Number:  22STCV00962    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  4, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV00962




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Edwin Raquel and Leilani Raquel




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Kelly Soon Lee    



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication;
Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declarations of Edwin Raquel, Leilani
Raquel, and Bradley Anderson
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Defendants Compendium of Exhibits
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition 
3.      Evidentiary Objections
4.      Declaration of Richard Powers
5.      Compendium of Evidence
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      Defendants’ Reply Brief
2.      Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
 
SUPPLEMENTAL OPPOSITION
1.      Plaintiff’s Supplemental Memorandum
2.      Plaintiff’s Supplemental Separate Statement
3.      Evidentiary Objections
4.      Plaintiff’s Supplemental Compendium of
Evidence
 
SUPPLEMENTAL REPLY
1.      Defendants’ Reply Brief
2.      Response to Plaintiff’s Supplemental Separate
Statement
                      
BACKGROUND
 
On January 10, 2022, Plaintiff
Kelly Soon Lee (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Edwin
Raquel and Leilani Raquel (Defendants) based on injuries from a dog bite. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants’ dog bit her on December 5, 2021. Plaintiff seeks
punitive damages.
 
Defendants now move for summary adjudication on the claim for punitive
damages, arguing that no triable issue of fact exists. This motion was
originally set for a hearing on August 9, 2023. Plaintiff requested a
continuance in order to depose Christina Raquel, Caroline Raquel, and Tamar
Geller. The Court granted the continuance and allowed the parties to file
supplemental opposition and reply papers. (Min. Order, 8/9/24.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims
for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the
cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause
of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.) The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to
allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary
support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal
without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
EVDIENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court sustains Plaintiff’s objections 5-10. 
 
The remainder of Plaintiff’s objections are overruled. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)¿ “‘Punitive
damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme
indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should
not have to tolerate.’¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code
section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests.¿ The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must
be found.”¿ (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)¿ The statute’s reference to despicable conduct
represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched
or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.¿ Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime.’”¿ (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)¿ Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”¿ (Flyer’s
Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
1149, 1155.)¿ 
 
“[M]alice is the basis for assessing punitive damages for
nonintentional conduct; that is, acts performed without intent to harm.
[Citation omitted.] Nonintentional conduct comes within the definition of
malicious acts punishable by the assessment of punitive damages when a party
intentionally performs an act from which he knows, or should know, it is highly
probable that harm will result.” (Ford Motor Co. v. Home Ins. Co.¿(1981) 116
Cal.App.3d 374, 381.) A conscious disregard for the safety of others can constitute
malice if the plaintiff establishes that “the
defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and
that he wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895–96.)
 
“[A]lthough the “clear and convincing” evidentiary standard is a
stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a
case for punitive damages at summary judgment. [Citation omitted.] However,
where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing
evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into account
in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a
plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary
that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.” (American
Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton¿(2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.) “Summary judgment or summary adjudication on the issue
of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the
plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or
oppression.” (Butte Fire Cases¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159)
(internal quotations omitted.)  
 
Here, it is undisputed that
Defendants adopted the subject dog (Frankie) in June 2020. (UMF 1, 3.) The
general facts on the day of the subject dog bite are also undisputed. On
December 5, 2021, Frankie was running in the front yard in the presence of
Defendants and their employee. (UMF 23.) Defendants’ property is fenced on all
four sides. (UMF 27.) At one point, Frankie ran to the side of the property,
out of sight, scaled the lowest part of the wall, and escaped. (UMF 25.) Within
a few seconds, Mr. Raquel heard a scream. After running to where the scream
occurred, Defendants discovered Plaintiff. (UMF 29–30.) 
 
Defendants set forth the following facts: 
 
-         
After adopting Frankie, defendants hired Tamar Geller,
a well-known dog trainer based in Bel-Air, to start obedience training at
around two months old. (UMF 4.) 
-         
Ms. Geller trained Frankie for approximately 18 months,
weekly for the first few months and including overnight stays when we were out
of town. Training included one-on-one training sessions, group training
sessions with other dogs and people present, regular group socialization with
other dogs of various temperaments, sizes, and breeds, hikes and walks with
other dogs, and a two week long training vacation when he stayed with Ms.
Geller at her home to receive 24/7 training for two weeks. Initially, during
the first few months, the training was done on a weekly basis and then it
became less frequent. (UMF 5.) 
-         
During the entire time that Frankie was trained by Ms.
Geller, she never expressed any concerns to defendants about Frankie. (UMF 7.) 
-         
The feedback defendants received from Ms. Geller is
that Frankie was training and progressing well. (UMF 8.) 
-         
Prior to the incident on December 5, 2021, defendants
never encountered any problems with Frankie. (UMF 9.) 
-         
Defendants never saw Frankie behave aggressively toward
any person or other dog. (UMF 10.) 
-         
Defendants never saw Frankie bite anyone or any other
dog. (UMF 11.) 
-         
Defendants never encountered problems with Frankie
jumping or play biting. (UMF 12.) 
-         
Defendants never encountered Frankie barking in an
excessive manner (UMF 13.)
-         
Defendants never saw Frankie attempt to bark and chase
any people who were on the street while Frankie was in the front yard, which is
adjacent to the street. (UMF 14.)
-         
Frankie regularly played with defendants’ daughters’
friends and their dogs without any incidents. (UMF 15.) 
-         
Frankie behaved well in dog parks or even on a plane
ride. (UMF 16.) 
-         
Frankie was always affectionate to visitors at
defendants’ house and never displayed any signs of aggression. (UMF 17.) 
-         
Frankie had never attempted to scale the boundary walls
of defendants’ property and this was the first time that this type of incident
had ever occurred. (UMF 45.)
-         
Following the dog bite incident, defendants received
communications from the Fremont Place Association with respect to the dog bite
incident. One of the communications alleged that an earlier incident had
occurred on November 24, 2021. The communication alleged that Frankie
aggressively charged another neighbor and her family. (UMF 49.)
-         
This was the first time defendants had ever been
apprised of this alleged charging incident. Indeed, defendants were unaware of
any alleged prior incident and were only advised of this when they received the
correspondence from the Association. (UMF 50.) 
-         
Frankie was out of defendants’ property for a very
short period of time on November 24. Mr. Raquel had opened the front gate
(which closes automatically) and gone out to invite a driver to come in and eat
some food at an event we were hosting at our home. Frankie managed to escape
through the front gate when Mr. Raquel walked out to speak to the driver. (UMF
51.) 
-         
On that evening, both Grayson and Frankie were running
freely amongst the basketball players and visitors on that evening. Frankie was
extremely friendly and affectionate to the visitors. (UMF 53.)
-         
Defendants’ two daughters went out and retrieved
Frankie a short distance down the road and brought him back to the property.
The two daughters were able to retrieve Frankie back without any difficulty or
resistance from him. (UMF 54.) 
-         
Defendants are unaware of any further details of the
alleged charging incident other than what is alleged in the correspondence from
the homeowners’ association provided to defendants following the December 5,
2021 incident. (UMF 55.) 
-         
The Fremont Association was only informed about the
November 24, 2021 incident after the dog bite incident had already occurred on
December 5, 2021. (UMF 64.)
-         
The Fremont Association only interacted and
communicated with the defendants after the dog bite incident had already
occurred on December 5, 2021. (UMF 65.)
 
Defendants have met their burden. The
evidence presented shows that Frankie exhibited no dangerous or violent
propensities known by Defendants that would lead Defendants to believe he was a
danger to others. Further, is it undisputed that Frankie escaped on November
24, 2021 after Mr. Raquel opened the front gate to speak to a driver. (UMF 51.)
Even if there were evidence of Frankie’s alleged propensity to escape, such
evidence would not demonstrate a conscious disregard of any dangerous or
violent propensities. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff primarily argues that
Defendants knew Frankie had a propensity to escape since he left through the
open gate on November 24, 2021, and growled at another dog while being trained.
Plaintiff conducted the depositions of Defendants’ daughters, Caroline Raquel
and Christina Raquel, on October 13, 2023. (PAMF 15–16.) The deposition of
Tamar Geller took place on October 30, 2023. Plaintiff offers the following
facts from her supplemental separate statement: 
 
-         
Daughters of Defendants, Christina, Catherine, and
Caroline, were the ones who were most involved with training and caring of
Frankie. (PAMF 3.) 
-         
Defendants had knowledge of the November 24, 2021
incident, prior to the incident concerning Plaintiff because Edwin recalls the
fact that Frankie escaped when the gate was left open by Edwin, and Defendants’
daughters, Caroline and Christina, informed Defendants that Frankie had escaped
upon their returning home with him the very same day. (PAMF 13.)
-         
On November 24, 2021, Defendants’ dog, Frankie, ran
down the street and aggressively charged at Dr. Margaret Lee, a neighbor of
Defendants, and her 6-yearold daughter while Frankie was growling and barking.
Thankfully, Dr. Lee was able to subdue Defendants’ dog before he was able to
attack Dr. Lee and her child. (PAMF 14.) 
-         
Caroline Raquel witnessed Frankie exiting the driveway
gate at the University of Pennsylvania event on November 24, 2021. (PAMF 18.)
-         
After observing Frankie exit the driveway gate,
Christina and Caroline Raquel went after him in their vehicle. (PAMF 19.)
-         
Caroline and Christina Raquel located Frankie with Ms.
Margaret Lee and her family on the southeast corner of West 8th Street and West
Fremont Place. (PAMF 20.) 
-         
Upon returning to 56 Fremont Place on November 24,
2021, Caroline and Christina Raquel notified their parents that they had
located Frankie after he escaped. (PAMF 21.) 
-         
Tamar Geller trained Frankie approximately 32 times
from August 7, 2020 to November 16, 2021. (PAMF 24.) 
-         
Caroline Raquel informed Ms. Geller that Frankie
exhibited aggressive behavior at home when Grayson would eat and Grayson was
afraid to eat in Frankie’s presence. (PAMF 30.)
-         
While at training with Tamar Geller, Frankie growled
aggressively at a Mastiff, which Tamar Geller reported to the Raquel family.
(PAMF 31.) 
 
Plaintiff has failed to meet her
burden. Here, the evidence does not show that Defendants were aware of any
potentially dangerous propensity. Plaintiff does not present evidence to
dispute that after the subject incident, Defendants became aware of the Dr. Lee
November 24, 2021 incident where Frankie was allegedly growling and barking. Still,
the deposition of Michelle Lee demonstrates that Frankie did not bite anyone
and that she did not speak to Defendants’ daughters when they retrieved him.
(Pl. Exh. 3, Lee Depo, 30:2–11, 31:4–32:1–11.) Similarly, the depositions of
Caroline Raquel and Christina Raquel do not show evidence that they told
Defendants that Frankie exhibited some dangerous behavior toward Dr. Lee and
her family. Additionally, the fact that Frankie growled at another dog while in
training is insufficient because it does not suggest a propensity that Frankie
would bite another human. 
 
Accordingly, considering the
evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff including all inferences,
Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate a triable issue of fact.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Edwin Raquel and Leilani
Raquel’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 