  Case Number:  23STCV12216    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ALEXANDER
  FRANKIAN,  
  
         vs.
 
JESSICA COOK.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV12216
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 12, 2024



 
Cross-Defendant
Alexander Frankian’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant Jessica Cook’s First Amended
Cross-Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st
and 2nd causes of action.
 
          Cross-Defendant
Alexander Frankian (“Frankian”) (“Cross-Defendant”) demurs to Cross-Complainant
Jessica Cook’s (“Cook”) (“Cross-Complainant”) first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§430.10(e).)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the
moving party must meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who
filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41, emphasis added.) 
Cross-Defendant’s counsel declares
that on May 28, 2024, and again on June 17, 2023, she set emails to
Cross-Complainant’s counsel in an attempt to meet and confer regarding the
instant demurrer but did not receive a response to either email.  (See Decl. of Manoukian
¶¶4, 6-7.)  Cross-Defendant’s
counsel is in violation of C.C.P. §430.41 because she did not attempt to meet
and confer with Cross-Complainant’s counsel in person, by telephone, or by
video conference.  However, ailure to
sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4); Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355; Olson v.
Hornbrook Community Services District (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 502, 515.)  Accordingly, the Court will consider Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer.
 
          Background
          Cross-Complainant
filed her initial Cross-Complaint on February 5, 2024.  On May 22, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed the
operative FACC against Cross-Defendant alleging two causes of action: (1)
breach of contract; and (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.  Cross-Complainant’s causes of
action arise from her alleged oral agreement with Cross-Defendant that
Cross-Defendant would pay all of Cross-Complainant’s and Cross-Complainant’s
children’s living expenses.  (See FACC
¶5.)
          Cross-Defendant
filed the instant demurrer on June 25, 2024. 
Cross-Complainant filed her opposition on August 1, 2024.  Cross-Defendant filed his reply on July 31,
2024.
 
Summary of
Demurrer
Cross-Defendant
demurs to the 1st cause of action on the basis the claim fails to allege lawful
consideration for the alleged oral contract, fails to plead the oral contract
with specificity, and fails allege damages from the alleged breach of contract.
 (Demurrer, pg. 3.)  Cross-Defendant demurs to the 2nd cause of
action on the basis it is used as an alternative way of seeking the same
recovery demanded in the breach of contract cause of action and seeks tort
damages for alleged breach of contract. 
(Demurrer, pg. 3.)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State
a Claim
Breach of
Contract (1st COA)
“To prevail on a
cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
“An oral contract
may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it is rarely possible to
allege the exact words. [Citation.] A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]” (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  That plaintiff could not allege with
specificity the exact terms of the contract does not preclude statement of a
cause of action.  (Id.)
In an action on
an oral agreement, the essential element of consideration normally must be
alleged.  (Stevenson v. San Francisco
Housing Authority (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 269, 284.)
“Good
consideration” is defined as “[a]ny benefit conferred, or agreed to be
conferred, upon the promisor, by any other person, to which the promisor is not
lawfully entitled, or any prejudice suffered, or agreed to be suffered, by such
person, other than such as he is at the time of consent lawfully bound to
suffer, as an inducement to the promisor, is a good consideration for a
promise.”  (Civ. Code §1605.)
Cross-Complainant
alleges in or about February 2019, the parties entered into an oral agreement
that Cross-Complainant and her children would move in with Cross-Defendant and
Cross-Defendant would pay all of
Cross-Complainant’s and Cross-Complainant’s children’s living expenses.  (FACC ¶5.)  Cross-Complainant
alleges Cross-Defendant paid Cross-Complainant’s
and Cross-Complainant’s children’s expenses for the duration of their
relationship until May 2022, when they separated.  (FACC ¶5.)  Cross-Complainant alleges
Cross-Defendant confirmed the agreement orally throughout the relationship and
paid Cross-Complainant’s and her children’s
expenses in excess of $15,000 per month.  (FACC ¶6.)  
Cross-Complainant
alleges she has performed all conditions, covenants, and promises required on
her part to be performed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
contract.  (FACC ¶9.)  Cross-Complainant alleges on
or about May 2022, Cross-Defendant breached the oral agreement by refusing and
failing to pay Cross-Complainant and her children’s expenses in the monthly
amount agreed to.  (FACC ¶10.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges as a result of Cross-Defendant’s breach of
contract, Cross-Complainant has been damaged by not getting paid the $15,000
per month for her balance of her life.  (FACC ¶11.)  
Cross-Complainant
fails to allege bargained-for consideration in exchange for Cross-Defendant’s
promise to pay Cross-Complainant’s and her children’s monthly expenses.  (Stevenson, 24 Cal.App.4th at pg. 284.)
 However, Cross-Defendant’s argument with
regards to the terms of the oral agreement is unavailing; that Cross-Complainant
could not allege with specificity the exact terms of the contract does not
preclude statement of a cause of action.  (Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at pg.
616.)  Further, Cross-Complainant’s
argument regarding the statute of frauds is unavailing because Plaintiff’s FACC
does not allege the oral agreement was for her lifetime.  FACC ¶5 alleges Cross-Defendant “paid all of Cross-Complainant’s and Cross-Complainant’s children’s
expenses for the duration of their relationship until May 2022, when
they separated.”  FACC ¶6 alleges “Cross-Defendant confirmed the agreement
orally throughout the relationship and paid Cross-Complainant’s
and her children’s expenses in excess of $15,000 per month.”  (FACC ¶6.)  Cross-Complainant does not allege the oral
agreement was for a lifetime; therefore, Plaintiff does not allege the oral
agreement contains terms that violate the statute of frauds.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 1st cause of action is sustained with 20
days leave to amend.
 
Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (2nd COA)
Every contract
imposes upon each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in the
performance of the contract such that neither party shall do anything which
will have the effect of destroying or injuring the right of the other party to
receive the fruits of the contract.  (Waller
v. Truck Insurance Exchange, Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 36.)  The implied covenant “is designed to
effectuate the intentions and reasonable expectations of parties reflected by
mutual promises within the contract.”  (Nein
v. HostPro, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 833, 852.)  The covenant mandates that neither party do
anything which will deprive the other of the benefits of the agreement.  (Wolf v. Walt Disney Pictures and
Television (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1120.)  In addition, the covenant implies a promise to
give any necessary cooperation to accomplish the purpose of the contract.  (Pasadena Live, LLC v. City of Pasadena
(2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1089, 1093; see also Thrifty Payless, Inc. v.
Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244 [covenant
supplements express contractual duties].)
“The implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing rests upon the existence of some
specific contractual obligation. ‘The covenant of good faith is read into
contracts in order to protect the express covenants or promises of the
contract, not to protect some general public policy interest not directly tied
to the contract’s purpose.’ . . . ‘In essence, the covenant is implied as a
supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party
from engaging in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express
covenants) frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the
contract.’”  (Racine & Laramie,
Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026,
1031-1032, internal citations omitted.)
Cross-Complainant
alleges as of the date of the pleading, Cross-Defendant failed and refused and
continues to fail and refuse to pay the monthly support per their
agreement.  (FACC ¶14.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Cross-Defendant
breached his duty of good faith and fair dealing owed to Cross-Complainant by
unreasonable and bad faith manipulation of Cross-Complainant by using financial
control over her.  (FACC ¶14.) 
Cross-Complainant
alleges as a direct and proximate result of Cross-Defendant’s wrongful conduct,
Cross-Complainant has suffered and continues to suffer damages from May 2022 in
an amount to be proven at trial.  (FACC
¶16.)
Cross-Complainant
fails to allege the existence of some specific contractual obligation that frustrated
Cross-Complainant’s right to the benefits of the contract.  If Cross-Complainant’s allegation is that the
specific contractual obligation was for Cross-Defendant to pay
Cross-Complainant’s and her children’s monthly expenses, and Cross-Defendant’s
failure to make those payments frustrated her right to benefit from their
agreement, then Cross-Complainant’s cause of action merely restates her breach
of contract claim.
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 2nd cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer includes a motion to strike portions of the FACC that was not included
in the notice of its demurrer, filed in a separate document, or separately
reserved in the Court Reservation System (“CRS”).  Therefore, Cross-Defendant’s arguments in
support of a motion to strike are disregarded by this Court.
 
          Conclusion
Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 1st and 2nd causes of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
August _____, 2024
                                                                             





  