 Case Number:  23STCV30466    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



SICHTING
  WALKER,  
  
         vs.
 
FIGURE 8
  REALTY, INC.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV30466
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 12, 2024



 
Defendant Adriana
T. Dermenjian’s motion to strike portions of
Plaintiff Sichting Walker’s complaint is granted
with 20 days leave to amend.

 
Defendant Adriana
T. Dermenjian (“Dermenjian”) (“Defendant”) [Doe 1] moves to strike
portions of Plaintiff Sichting Walker’s (“Walker”) (“Plaintiff”) complaint
(“Complaint”) to support an award for punitive damages in the following
portions of the Complaint: (1) ¶31 “Defendants’ conduct described above was
willful, wanton, intentional, despicable, malicious, and initiated with malice
and with the intent to knowingly take advantage of, oppress, and injure
Plaintiff. Defendants at all times acted with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights of safety of Plaintiff. Defendants were at all times aware that
there was high probability that their intentional and/or negligent failure to
repair and maintain the Property would injure Plaintiff and cause her personal
injury, emotional distress, and property damages. Plaintiff is therefore
entitled to an aware of punitive and exemplary damages under and pursuant to
Civil Code, Section 3294 and Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890.”; (2) ¶38 “Defendants’ conduct described above was willful, wanton, intentional,
despicable, malicious, and initiated with malice and with the intent to knowingly
take advantage of, oppress, and injure Plaintiff. Defendants at all times acted
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of safety of Plaintiff.
Defendants were at all times aware that there was high probability that their
intentional and/or negligent failure to repair and maintain the Property would
injure Plaintiff and cause her personal injury, emotional distress, and
property damages. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an aware of punitive and exemplary
damages under and pursuant to Civil Code, Section 3294 and Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890.”; (3) ¶61 “Defendants’ conduct
described above was willful, wanton, intentional, despicable, malicious, and
initiated with malice and with the intent to knowingly take advantage of,
oppress, and injure Plaintiff. Defendants at all times acted with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights of safety of Plaintiff. Defendants were at
all times aware that there was high probability that their intentional and/or
negligent failure to repair and maintain the Property would injure Plaintiff
and cause her personal injury, emotional distress, and property damages.
Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an aware of punitive and exemplary damages
under and pursuant to Civil Code, Section 3294 and Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890.”; (4) ¶69 “Plaintiff is further entitled to an
award of exemplary damages, because the acts of Defendants were intentional,
despicable, in that they were in knowing violation of law. Defendants had actual
knowledge of the defective conditions in the premises, including a damage
ceiling, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions, and failed and refused to
adequately remediate the conditions even though legally obligated to do so. Defendants’
refusal to comply with the law governing their duties to their tenants was willful,
and done in order to increase their own profits, intentionally oppressing the
Plaintiff, and knowingly cause Plaintiff physical injury, annoyance, fear, and
mental suffering.”; (5) ¶70 “Defendants’ conduct described above was willful,
wanton, intentional, despicable, malicious and initiated with malice and with
the intent to knowingly take advantage of, oppress, and injure Plaintiff.
Defendants at all times acted with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights of safety of Plaintiff. Defendants were at all times aware that there
was a high probability that their intentional and/or negligent failure to
repair and maintain the Property would injure Plaintiff and cause her personal injury,
emotional distress and property damage. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an
award of punitive and exemplary damages under and pursuant to Civil Code,
Section 3294 and Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890.”; (6) ¶78
“Defendants’ conduct described above was willful, wanton, intentional, despicable,
malicious and initiated with malice and with the intent to knowingly take advantage
of, oppress, and injure Plaintiff. Defendants at all times acted with a willful
and conscious disregard of the rights of safety of Plaintiff. Defendants were
at all times aware that there was a high probability that their intentional
and/or negligent failure to repair and maintain the Property would injure
Plaintiff and cause her personal injury, emotional distress and property
damage. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an award of punitive and exemplary damages
under and pursuant to Civil Code, Section 3294 and Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890.”; (7) Prayer 1 Cause of Action “2. For punitive
and exemplary damages according to proof”; (8) Prayer 2 Cause of Action “5. For
punitive and exemplary damages according to proof”; (9) Prayer 4 Cause of
Action “10. For punitive and exemplary damages according to proof”; (10) Prayer
5 Cause of Action “13. For punitive and exemplary damages according to proof”;
(11) Prayer 6 Cause of Action “16. For punitive and exemplary damages according
to proof”; and (12) Prayer 9 Cause of Action “23. For punitive and exemplary
damages according to proof”.  (Notice of MTS,
pgs. 1-4; C.C.P. §436.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed
her operative Complaint on December 14, 2023, against Defendant Figure 8
Realty, Inc. alleging nine causes of action: (1) negligence; (2) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (3) breach of the implied warranty of
habitability; (4) tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability; (5)
private nuisance; (6) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7) violation
of Civil Code §1942.4; (8) violation of the UCL; and (9) premises liability.  On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Doe Amendment
identifying Dermenjian as Doe 1.
On June 3, 2024, Dermenjian
filed the instant motion.  On August 2,
2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition.  On
August 5, 2024, Dermenjian filed her reply.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion to strike, moving
party’s counsel must meet and confer, in person, telephone, or by video
conference with counsel for the party who filed the pleading in an attempt to
reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading and
obviate the need for filing a motion to strike. 
(C.C.P. §435.5.)  A declaration
must be filed with the motion to strike regarding the results of the meet and
confer process.  (C.C.P. §435.5(a)(3).)
Dermenjian’s counsel
declares that on or about May 23, 2024, she spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel by
telephone regarding the instant motion, and the parties were unable to come to
an agreement.  (See Decl. of Winter ¶5.)  Therefore, Defendant’s motion to strike is
proper.
 
Motion to Strike
Legal Standard
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to C.C.P. §435, or at any time within its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper, “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.”  (C.C.P. §436(a).)
 
Summary of Motion
Dermenjian moves to strike portions of the Complaint pertaining to punitive
damages on the basis Plaintiff’s complaint alleges nothing more than conduct
that might support claims of negligence and Plaintiff’s allegations that
Defendants acted willfully, wantonly, intentionally, maliciously, or with conscious
disregard for the health and safety of plaintiff rests on legal conclusions.  (Motion, pgs. 7-10.)
 
Punitive Damages
Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper
showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. 
(Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others.  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights.  (Id.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury.  (Id.) 
Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud,
or malice.  (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
“Conduct which warrants punitive damages must be of ‘such severity
or shocking character [as] warrants the same treatment as accorded to willful
misconduct – conduct in which defendant intends to cause harm.’”  (Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141
Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 10, quoting Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc.
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286.)  “Despicable
Conduct” is conduct that is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix
Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)
  “[C]onclusory
characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional, willful and fraudulent
is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or malice, express
or implied,’ within the meaning of section 3294.”  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
          Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges:
At all relevant times
during Plaintiff’s tenancy, Apt. 2 was unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy, and
uninhabitable and subject to, but not limited to, the following substandard
conditions:
 
(a)  Water intrusion/leaks;
(b)  Mold and mildew conditions caused by water intrusion/leaks;
(c)  Damaged ceiling and walls;
(d)  Water stains on the ceiling;
(e)  Defective on non-functioning carbon monoxide detectors;
(f)  
Collapsed ceiling;
(g)  Peeling paint throughout the unit (walls, cabinets, ceiling…);
(h)  Deteriorating cabinets;
(i)   
Cockroach infestation;
(j)   
Cracked tiles; and
(k)  Deteriorated kitchen counters[.]
 
(Complaint ¶19.)
          Plaintiff alleges
on information and belief that the Property was subjected to even more illegal
conditions than those mentioned herein which continuously plagued Plaintiff
during her tenancy.  (Complaint
¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges at all relevant
times, Defendants had actual and/or constructive notice of the following
defects yet failed to take timely or reasonable steps to abate and/or remedy
the defects. (Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiff
alleges any repairs that were undertaken by Defendants were inadequate and/or
exacerbated the subject problem (i.e., Painting over damaged ceiling), Defendants
failed to repair and abate the defects at Apt. 2 to save money and increase Defendants’
cash flow and net income.  (Complaint
¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges discovery of
Defendants’ profit and loss statements will reveal that, at all relevant times,
Defendants failed to spend sufficient monies on repairs and maintenance
consistent with the applicable standard of care.  (Complaint ¶20.)
          Plaintiff alleges Apt.
2 and the Property have been subject to persistent water leaks, which has damaged
the entire ceiling, has peeled most of the paint and has caused Plaintiff
severe injuries and property damage because a part of the ceiling and the
polluted water contained in it collapsed on her while she was in her bedroom
causing Plaintiff physical injuries.  (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges during the time of her
tenancy, the chronic water leaks interfered with her use and
enjoyment of the premises and reduced the habitability of the unit
and has caused Plaintiff significant bodily injury and emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff has skin
irritation and pain in her shoulders and neck due to the polluted water and the
part of the ceiling that collapsed on her. 
(Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff
alleges her belongings were also damaged by the water leak and ceiling
collapse, her shoes, clothes, bed, and other items became covered in
mold/mildew and were damaged.  (Complaint
¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
intentionally and/or negligently failed to properly repair, eliminate, and
abate the
damaged ceiling and the water leaks at Apt. 2 and the Property
among other defects listed herein. 
(Complaint ¶21.)
Plaintiff’s allegations pertaining to Demerjian’s knowledge of the
allegedly unsafe conditions at the Property are insufficient to allege
malice.  (See Complaint ¶21; G.D.
Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 30.)  Plaintiff does not allege conduct by Defendant
arising to the level of despicable conduct. 
Plaintiff’s causes of action all sound in negligence.  (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 895, 900.)  Further,
Plaintiff’s allegations pertaining to Defendant’s knowledge of the conditions
of the Property are conclusory.
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages from the Complaint is granted with 20 days leave to
amend.  
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted with 20 days leave
to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  August _____, 2024
                                                                             





  