  Case Number:  24STCV12953    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  57  Defendant General Motors, LLC's ("GM") demurrer to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action in Plaintiff's complaint is sustained with leave to amend.  The Court agrees with GM that the allegations in the complaint are not sufficiently specific to support any of those causes of action.   Plaintiff shall serve and file an amended complaint by November 20, 2024.GM's motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages in the complaint is denied as moot in light of the Court's ruling on the demurrer.Plaintiff's motions seeking orders compelling GM to provide further responses to special interrogatories, form interrogatories, and requests production of documents are denied on the ground that Plaintiff failed to submit separate statements accompanying the motions as required by California Rule of Court 3.1345.  Plaintiff's recitation of the text of the special interrogatories, form interrogatories, and requests for production and GM's responses and objections  thereto within the corresponding motions is not a substitute for separate statements. That is because Plaintiff did not within the motions set forth, discovery request by discovery request, explanations as to why further responses are required as to each request, which is what a separate statement is supposed to furnish.  The explanations that Plaintiffs furnished are cursory.   They fail to address seriatim each objection and request that GM made.   Some of the objections are not addressed all.  Those that are addressed are lumped together with objections to other requests.  This was especially problematic with respect to the motions to compel further responses to the special interrogatories and requests for production of documents given the sheer number of those interrogatories and requests that Plaintiff propounded.  It was very difficult for the Court to follow Plaintiff's arguments as to each special  interrogatory and request for production of documents.  Separate statements would have solved this problem.   Plaintiff propounded fewer form interrogatories.  But even as to them, the lack of a separate statement posed difficulties for the Court in understanding Plaintiff's position as to each interrogatory.   