 Case Number:  24STCV13533    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  57 The Court is granting Plaintiff's motion for trial preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1062.3(a) on Plaintiff's sole cause of action against Defendant for declaratory relief.   Section 1062.3(a) provides that a trial preference is mandatory in cases in which the only claim is for declaratory relief.  Defendant accuses Plaintiff of gamesmanship in dismissing its other claim, which was for breach of contract, so as to trigger the mandatory trial preference of Section 1062.3(a).  Plaintiff's action in this regard has given the Court some pause.  In the end, however, the Court discerns no valid basis to deny Plaintiff a  trial preference for the declaratory relief action simply because it dismissed its breach of contract action.Plaintiff contends that the trial preference for which it has moved means that the trial in this case should be set within 120 days from today's hearing on the motion.  The Court disagrees.   Section 1062.3(a) does not state that cases in which the lone claim is for declaratory relief must be set for trial within 120 days of the granting of a trial preference motion made under that provision.  To be sure, Plaintiff moved alternatively for a trial preference under Sections 36(e) and 36(f).  And together, those provisions state that when a court in the exercise of its discretion determines that a motion for trial preference should be granted "in the interest of justice," (Section 36(e)), the court shall set the case for trial within 120 days of the hearing on the motion (Section 36(f)).  The Court has considered Plaintiff's alternative argument.  But in the exercise of its discretion, the Court has determined that the interests of justice do not support a trial preference for Plaintiff.   It is the fact that Plaintiff's only cause of action is for declaratory relief that supports a trial preference.  Because Section 36(e) is not the basis for the Court's decision to grant Plaintiff a trial preference, 120 days benchmark in Section 36(f) for trial setting is inapplicable.  Instead, the Court is setting trial in this matter for June 16, 2024 at 8:30 a.m., which is roughly 230 days from now.In light of the Court's determination that the trial will not be set, as Plaintiff  wanted, within 120 days from today, the Court is denying Plaintiff's ex parte application to advance the hearing on its motion to compel the deposition of Alex Cohen, which is set for February 27, 2025.  The premise of the ex parte application was that the trial would be set in February 2025, and so the motion to compel Cohen's deposition had to be heard well before then.  The Court's trial setting decision undermines that premise.The Court is denying Defendant's ex parte application for an order shortening time on Defendant's motion for reconsideration of the Court's decision earlier this month denying Defendant's motion to compel arbitration.  Defendant has not yet filed its motion for reconsideration.  It has merely reserved a hearing date on it.  If and when Defendant files the motion for reconsideration and the hearing on the motion actually is scheduled, Defendant can seek an ex parte order advancing the hearing date on the motion and shortening time on the briefing.   The Court offers this guidance to Defendant, however, should it proceed with its motion for reconsideration.  The ex parte application indicates that the motion for reconsideration is predicated on the idea that the Court denied the motion to compel to arbitration based on untimely argument and authority that Defendant made at the hearing on the motion.  That idea is incorrect.  The Court denied the motion to compel arbitration because (1) the arbitration agreement on which the motion was based did not comply with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1298, and (2) Defendant failed to carry its evidentiary burden of demonstrating that Section 1298 is preempted by the Federal Arbitration Act.  Plaintiff made these very points in its brief in opposition to the motion to compel arbitration.  The points were not advanced for the first time at the hearing on the motion.   Yes, the Court's tentative ruling was to grant the motion.  On reflection, however, the Court determined that the argument in Plaintiff's brief about 1298 and federal preemption was right.