 Case Number:  24PSCV03894    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Earline  Wilbourn v. Foremost Insurance Company Grand Rapids, Michigan 1.      Respondent  Foremost Insurance Company Grand Rapids, Michigan’s Motion to Compel Response  to Request for Production of Documents; 2.      Respondent  Foremost Insurance Company Grand Rapids, Michigan’s Motion to Compel Answers to  Form Interrogatories; and 3.      Respondent  Foremost Insurance Company Grand Rapids, Michigan’s Motion for Order That  Matters Set Forth in Request For Admission (Set One) Be Deemed Admitted  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court summarily DENIES Foremost Insurance Company Grand  Rapids, Michigan’s motion to compel response to Request for Production of  Documents without prejudice.  The Court GRANTS Foremost’s motion to compel answers to Form  Interrogatories and motion for order that matters set forth in Request for  Admission (Set One) by deemed admitted. The Court hereby deems the truth of the  matters specified in Request for Admission (Set One) admitted and conclusively  established as to Earline Wilbourn. The Court also orders Earline Wilbourn to  provide verified, code-compliant responses, without objection, to Form  Interrogatories (Set Number One), within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court further GRANTS Foremost’s requests for monetary  sanctions in the amount of $585.00, plus the $60.00 filing fee, for each  motion, for a total of $1,290.00. Earline Wilbourne must pay said monetary  sanctions to counsel for Foremost within 20 days of the Court’s order.               Foremost Insurance Company Grand  Rapids, Michigan is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five  calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an uninsured motorist action. On November 8, 2024, Foremost  Insurance Company Grand Rapids, Michigan (Foremost) filed an application for  case number in connection with an uninsured motorist arbitration proceeding  involving Earline Wilbourn (Wilbourn).  On December 18, 2024, Foremost filed multiple discovery motions  against Wilbourn. The motions are unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  The trial courts have  exclusive jurisdiction over discovery disputes in uninsured motorist  arbitrations. (Miranda v. 21st Century Ins.  Co. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913, 926; see  Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (f).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)   When a party fails to serve a timely response  to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)   When a party fails to serve a timely response  to a request for admission, the party propounding the request for admission may  move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any  matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that  the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,  before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for  admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is  mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney,  or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission  necessitated this motion.” (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is not required before bringing  motions to compel, the Court does request that parties meet and confer in  person, by telephone, or by video conference before bringing any motions. (Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 390, 404; Dept. 6 Courtroom Information.) The Court requests that  Foremost attempt to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video  conference going forward. (Wilson Decls., ¶ 4.)              Analysis  Foremost  indicates having served written discovery on Wilbourn, namely Request for  Production of Documents (Set Number One) on April 4, 2024, Form Interrogatories  (Set Number One) on April 25, 2024, and Request for Admission (Set One) on  April 25, 2024. (Wilson Decls., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Foremost indicates that no  responses have been received to those discovery requests. (Wilson Decls., ¶ 4,  Ex. B.)  The  Court notes that the proof of service for the motion to compel responses to  Request for Production of Documents (Set Number One) does not indicate any  particular method of service. (Motion to Compel Response to Request for  Production of Documents (12/18/24), pp. 48-49 of pdf.) It is unclear to the  Court whether proper service was effected on Wilbourn. Without proper notice,  this Court lacks jurisdiction to consider the motion. (Diaz v. Pro. Cmty. Mgmt., Inc.  (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1190, 1204.) The Court therefore summarily DENIES the  motion to compel responses to Request for Production of  Documents (Set Number One) without prejudice.  Foremost’s  other motions contain proper proofs of service evidencing service on Wilbourn’s  counsel. (Motion to Compel Answers to Form Interrogatories (12/18/24), ¶¶ 52-53  of pdf; Motion  for Order That Matters Set Forth in Request for Admission (Set One) be Deemed  Admitted (12/18/24), pp. 46-47 of pdf.) The Court finds these motions well  taken and GRANTS  them. The  Court hereby deems the truth of the matters specified in Request for Admission  (Set One) admitted and conclusively established as to Wilbourn. The Court also  orders Wilbourn to provide verified, code-compliant responses, without  objection, to Form Interrogatories (Set Number One), within 20 days of the  Court’s order.              The Court further  DENIES Foremost’s requests for monetary sanctions in connection with the motion  to compel responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set Number One).  The Court GRANTS Foremost’s remaining requests for monetary sanctions in the  amount of $585.00 per motion, comprised of 3.0 hours preparing the motion and  appearing at the hearing on the motions, multiplied by the hourly rate of  $175.00, plus the $60.00 filing fee per motion, for a grand total of $1,290.00.[1]  CONCLUSION  The Court summarily DENIES Foremost Insurance Company Grand  Rapids, Michigan’s motion to compel response to Request for Production of  Documents without prejudice.  The Court GRANTS Foremost’s motion to compel answers to Form  Interrogatories and motion for order that matters set forth in Request for  Admission (Set One) by deemed admitted. The Court hereby deems the truth of the  matters specified in Request for Admission (Set One) admitted and conclusively  established as to Earline Wilbourn. The Court also orders Earline Wilbourn to  provide verified, code-compliant responses, without objection, to Form  Interrogatories (Set Number One), within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court further GRANTS Foremost’s requests for monetary  sanctions in the amount of $585.00, plus the $60.00 filing fee, for each  motion, for a total of $1,290.00. Earline Wilbourne must pay said monetary  sanctions to counsel for Foremost within 20 days of the Court’s order.               Foremost Insurance Company Grand  Rapids, Michigan is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five  calendar days of this order.     