 Case Number:  23STCV29514    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GRAYSON
  MARSHALL, etc., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LORI C. MURPHY, etc., et al.,  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV29514
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Date: 
  April 29, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Lori C. Murphy  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Plaintiff Grayson Marshall    
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This
action arises from alleged habitability issues at a property located at 3714
Fletcher Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90065 (the “Property”). On December 4, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant and DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) negligence, (2) breach of implied
warranty of habitability; (3) violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code § 151.10 et
seq.; and (4) civil penalties for violation of the Los Angeles
Anti-Harassment Ordinance § 45.30 et seq.  
 
            On March
14, 2024, Defendant filed and served the instant Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint (the “Motion”). Defendant seeks to strike punitive
damages allegations from the second cause of action in the Complaint and the
prayer for relief thereto.
 
            On April
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to the Motion, to which Defendant
replied on April 22, 2024. 
 
            Initially,
the Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 435.5(a). (Webb Decl., ¶¶
6-7.)  
 
DISCUSSION
             “Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
435, subd. (b)(1).) A court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd.
(a).)  A court may “[s]trike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).) 
 
“In order to survive a motion to
strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) Civ. Code § 3294
authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.
Malice is defined as either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Despicable conduct is conduct
which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it
would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Mock v.
Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.)  Fraud under Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3) “means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2) defines oppression as “despicable conduct that subjects
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.”  Specific facts must be alleged
in support of punitive damages. (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.) Facts must be pled to show that a defendant “act[ed]
with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff’s rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 452, 462.)  Conduct that is merely
negligent will not support a claim for punitive damages.  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.) 
 
Issue No.1: Sufficiency of the Punitive Damages
Allegations 
The Complaint alleges the following:
Defendant’s predecessor illegally converted the rental unit into a dwelling
unit and thereafter offered it for residential purposes and rented it out to
Plaintiff despite the lack of all required building permits and licenses.
(Complaint, ¶ 7.) Defendant charged Plaintiff per month for the renting out of
what is essentially an unlivable unit disguised as a duplex. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) The
Property is subject to the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance.
(Complaint, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has maintained a campaign of
harassment for the purpose of driving out Plaintiff without providing the
relocation benefits to which he is entitled per the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization
Ordinance. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant entered the
Property without issuing all appropriate 24-hour notices, demanded that
Plaintiff vacate the Property without relocation benefits, timely failed to
address habitability issues that make the unit unfit for human habitation, and allowed
disturbance of the peace and quiet of Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
alleges that the condition of the Property has also seriously affected his physical
and mental health. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that a portion of the
ceiling is charred due to a fire that occurred in or about 1993, and there are
cracks in the concrete floor and the wall. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) 
 
Plaintiff further alleges that the
cracks in the walls cause flooding in the unit and the unit is also infested
with bugs, which an exterminator has confirmed to be subterranean termites.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that notice has been given to Defendant of
such conditions, but Defendant has done nothing to address these issues.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
not alleged sufficient facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant
the imposition of punitive damages. The second cause of action for breach of
implied warranty of habitability, to which Defendant seeks to strike punitive
damages, only sets forth conclusory allegations in support of punitive damages.
(FAC, ¶ 24.) Also, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s reliance on Penner v.
Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858 to support the argument that the Complaint
gives rise to punitive damages is inapposite. Penner v. Falk, supra,
153 Cal.App.3d 858 held that punitive damages were proper where a complaint
alleged criminal activity such as robbery, murder, and burglary at an apartment
complex. Here, the Complaint makes no such allegations of criminal activity. The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations are much too conclusory to support the
imposition of punitive damages. Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged fraud,
malice, or oppression. 
 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion
with 20 days leave to amend.  
            
 Moving Party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        
   Dated this 29th day of April
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 