 Case Number:  BC724250    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




emilio reyes

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lorraine ann escobar

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC724250




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   26, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for leave to file fourth
  amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Emilio Reyes
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    (1) Defendants Los Indios de San Gabriel and
Andrew Salas,          (2) Defendant
Lorraine Ann Escobar, and (3) Defendant Alexandra R. McIntosh, APC
Motion for Leave to File Fourth Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Emilio Reyes (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order
granting him leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint (1) to remove the second,
third, sixth, eighth, ninth, and 10-14th causes of action against defendants
Andrew Salas and Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc. pursuant to the court’s order
sustaining their demurrer to those causes of action without leave to amend; (2)
to remove the second, third, 10th, 13th, 16th, and 18th causes of action
against defendant Alexandra R. McIntosh, APC, pursuant to the court’s order
sustaining her demurrer to those causes of action without leave to amend; (3)
to add new facts; and (4) to make other, seemingly stylistic revisions (e.g.,
making minor corrections on the titles of the false publications).  (Notice of Mot., p. 2, ¶¶ 1-2; Reyes
Decl., ¶ 9.)
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect….The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice
to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars….”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿473, subd.
(a)(1).)¿  “[I]t is . . . true that courts generally should
permit amendment to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial.  [Citations.]  But this policy applies              ‘ “only ‘[w]here no prejudice is
shown to the adverse party.’ ” ’”  (Melican
v. Regents of University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175
[internal citations omitted].)
The court finds that (1) Plaintiff did not justify his delay in
seeking to amend his complaint, and (2) even if Plaintiff had shown that his
delay was justified, the court finds that defendants Andrew Salas, Los Indios
de San Gabriel, Inc., Lorraine Ann Escobar, and Alexandra R. McIntosh, APC
(“Defendants”) would be unduly prejudiced by this amendment.
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has not justified his delay in
seeking to amend his complaint. 
Plaintiff states, in his declaration, that he discovered certain new
facts (1) on August 25, 2023 and December 28, 2023, upon receiving defendants
Andrew Salas and Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc.’s responses to discovery, and
(2) on January 18, 2024, upon receiving discovery responses from defendant
Lorraine Ann Escobar.  (Reyes Decl., ¶
11.)  However, Plaintiff did not adequately
explain why he waited until March 4, 2024—which is approximately seven months
after the August 25, 2023 production, two months after the December 28, 2023
production, and one-and-a-half months after the January 18, 2024 production—to
file this motion.  Moreover, although
Plaintiff states that, “[u]pon conducting online research online since the last
amendment, [he] discovered the web links described in” various footnotes, Plaintiff
did not state (1) on what date he conducted this research, and (2) that he
could not have discovered such information sooner had he acted diligently.  (Reyes Decl., ¶ 11.)
Similarly, Plaintiff states that he discovered other facts relating to
the alleged publication number eight “on December 15, 2022[.]”  (Reyes Decl., ¶ 12.)  While the court acknowledges that Plaintiff
has stated that he “was unable to state specific details [presumably concerning
publication eight]” because the USB containing the records was corrupted
sometime in the beginning of 2023, Plaintiff did not set forth facts
establishing that he attempted to remedy this technological issue in a diligent
fashion.  (Ibid.) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show
that he acted diligently in seeking leave to file the proposed Fourth Amended
Complaint.  (Melican, supra,
151 Cal.App.4th at p. 175 [“appellate courts are less likely to find an abuse
of discretion where, for example, the proposed amendment is ‘ “offered after
long unexplained delay . . . or where there is a lack of diligence . . . .”
’”].)  
Second, even if Plaintiff had shown that he acted diligently, the
court finds that Defendants would be unduly prejudiced if the court were to
permit Plaintiff to file his Fourth Amended Complaint. 
It appears that Plaintiff intends to allege new factual claims and
bases in support of certain of his causes of action, regarding which Defendants
may need to conduct discovery and/or challenge the sufficiency of the
pleadings.  (Reyes Decl., ¶ 9
[“Footnote 13 includes an additional false and unprivileged publication
recently discovered”] [emphasis added]; Reyes Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 20-23
[appearing to add entirely new section regarding theories of liability based on
agency, aiding and abetting, and conspiracy].) 

Moreover, Plaintiff filed this action on October 4, 2018.  Trial is scheduled to begin on May 15, 2024,
i.e., approximately seven weeks after the hearing on this motion.  Permitting Plaintiff to amend his pleading
would likely necessitate the continuance of trial and therefore prejudice
Defendants.  (Miles v. City of Los
Angeles (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 728, 739 [“Prejudice exists where the
proposed amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in added costs
of preparation and increased discovery burdens”]; Lopez Decl., ¶ 17
[defendants Andrew Salas and Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc. “will require time
and expense to file moving or opposing papers to dispose of” additional claims
before proceeding to trial].)  
As set forth above, “the liberal policy favoring leave to amend ‘applies “ ‘only
“[w]here no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.” ’ ” ’”  (Miles,
supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at p. 728.)  Thus, the court finds that, because
Defendants will be unduly prejudiced by Plaintiff’s proposed amendment, it is
not in furtherance of justice to grant Plaintiff’s request for leave to file a
Fourth Amended Complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (a).)  The court
therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion.
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Emilio
Reyes’s motion for leave to file fourth amended complaint. 
            The court orders defendants Andrew
Salas and Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 26, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court