  Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  to Stay Pending Appeal




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Dale Prokupek, M.D.; Dale Prokupek, M.D. Inc.; and Millennium Medical
  Associates, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis



 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Fifth Amended Complaint [“5AC”] ¶¶ 20, 26.)  A subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff
suffered a stroke, causing central visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive
and behavioral issues.  (5AC ¶ 32.)  
 
Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon, Defendant Dale Prokupek,
M.D. and Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc. (“Prokupek”); Dr. Prokupek’s
company, Defendant Millennium Medical Associates, Inc. (“Millennium”); Dr.
Prokupek’s employee Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist
Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc.
(“Soma”), where the endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and
operator of Soma (“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber
(“Hershey-Weber”); and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three
causes of action: (1) professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach
of fiduciary duty; and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
On February 27, 2024, the Court granted Millennium’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, and Judgment was entered on March 14, 2024.  On May 13, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s
Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s order on Millennium’s Motion for
Summary Judgment.  The same day, on May
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal of the judgment entered in
Millennium’s favor.
 
Similarly, on April 5, 2024, the Court granted Kerr’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, and Judgment was entered on May 3, 2024.   On May 15, 2024, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s Order on Kerr’s Motion
for Summary Judgment.  Plaintiff has not
yet appealed the judgment in favor of Kerr.
 
Defendants Prokupek and Prokupek, M.D. (“Moving Defendants”) have
moved to stay the proceedings, including the trial, pending the resolution of
Plaintiff’s appeal of the Millennium judgment and anticipated appeal of the
Kerr judgment.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
In
general, “the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon
the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or
affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial
court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected
by the judgment or order.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 916, subd. (a).)  Furthermore,
“When there is a stay of proceedings other than the enforcement of the
judgment, the trial court shall have jurisdiction of proceedings related to the
enforcement of the judgment as well as any other matter embraced in the action
and not affected by the judgment or order appealed from.”  (Id. at subd. (b).)  
 
            The purpose of the automatic stay
provision “is to protect the appellate court’s jurisdiction by preserving the
status quo until the appeal is decided. 
The [automatic stay] prevents the trial court from rendering an appeal
futile by altering the appealed judgment or order by conducting other
proceedings that may affect it.”  (Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 189 (hereafter Varian).)  The provision “stays all further trial court
proceedings ‘upon the matters embraced’ in or ‘affected’ by the appeal.”  (Ibid.)  “In determining whether a proceeding is
embraced in or affected by the appeal, we must consider the appeal and its
possible outcomes in relation to the proceeding and its possible results.”  (Ibid.)  Whether a proceeding is “embraced” or
“affected” by the appeal turns on whether the proceedings would affect the
“effectiveness” of the appeal.  (Ibid.)  Proceedings affecting the effectiveness of
the appeal are stayed; other proceedings are not.  (Ibid.)  
 
            That a “proceeding may render the
appeal moot is not, by itself, enough to establish that the proceeding affects
the effectiveness of the appeal” sufficient to warrant a stay.  (Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 189.)  “Rather, something more is needed.  For example, the trial court proceeding must
directly or indirectly seek to enforce, vacate or modify [the] appealed
judgment or order.”  (Ibid.)  Alternatively, “the proceeding must
substantially interfere with the appellate court’s ability to conduct the
appeal.  (Id. at p. 190.)  
 
“A trial court proceeding also affects the effectiveness of an appeal
if the possible outcomes on appeal and the actual or possible results of the
proceeding are irreconcilable.”  (Varian,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 190.) 
For example, terminating jurisdiction over spousal support is
irreconcilable with possible outcomes on appeal of the denial to vacate the
spousal support order.  (Ibid.)  Similarly, “an appeal from a judgment on the
pleadings precludes a trial court from granting leave to amend the complaint
because affirmance of the judgment is irreconcilable with an order granting
leave to amend.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“Finally, a proceeding affects the effectiveness of the appeal if the
very purpose of the appeal is to avoid the need for that proceeding.”  (Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 190.)  For example, “an appeal from the denial of a
motion to compel arbitration automatically stays all further court proceedings
on the merits” because the trial court proceedings themselves are “inherently
inconsistent with a possible outcome on appeal.”  (Ibid.)  Similarly, because the purpose of the
anti-SLAPP statute is to protect litigants from being “dragged through the
courts because [they] exercised [their] constitutional rights […] an appeal
from the denial of an anti-SLAPP motion is no different than an appeal from the
denial of a motion to compel arbitration.” 
(Id. at p. 193.)
 
But “an appeal does not stay proceedings on ancillary or collateral
matters which do not affect the judgment [or order] on appeal even though the
proceedings may render the appeal moot.” 
(Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 191.)  “[C]ertain proceedings, by law, are
collateral to the merits of an appeal despite their potential effect on the
appeal.”  (Ibid.)  For example, a motion for a new trial is legislatively
ancillary or collateral and may proceed notwithstanding an appeal from the
judgment.  (Ibid.)  Similarly, a proceeding to expunge a lis
pendens is collateral to an appeal from the judgment.  (Ibid.)
 
A “[p]roceeding is also ancillary or collateral to the appeal despite
its potential effect on the appeal, if the proceeding could or would have
occurred regardless of the outcome of the appeal.”  (Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 191.)  For example, where a litigant could achieve
the same result by posting a bond to stay the spousal support provisions of a
judgment, the Court was not prevented from modifying its spousal support
provisions in the interlocutory judgment. 
(In re Marriage of Horrowitz (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 377, 382.)  Similarly, “an appeal from the denial of a
preliminary injunction does not stay further trial court proceedings on the
merits” because “the affirmance or reversal of its denial does not and cannot
eliminate the need for additional proceedings on the merits” as “the injunction
amounts to a mere preliminary or interlocutory order to keep the subject of the
litigation in status quo pending the determination of the action on its
merits.”  (Varian, 35 Cal.4th at
p. 191.)  “Likewise, an appeal from an
order denying a motion to disqualify counsel does not automatically stay
further trial court proceedings on the merits because such proceedings would
occur regardless of whether the reviewing court affirms or reverses the order.”  (Ibid.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Moving Defendants argue a stay is
warranted under Sction 916 because (1) “Having a trial go forward with the
remaining defendants carries with the it the risk that a second, separate trial
would go forward solely against MILLENNIUM”; (2) it would prejudice the
remaining defendants to not have potentially two other defendants not placed on
any jury verdict; and (3) it would protect the appellate court’s jurisdiction
by preserving the status quo until the appeal is decided.
 
            With respect to Moving Defendants’
first point, the risk that a second, separate trial may go forward against
Millennium (and/or Kerr) if the appellate court overturns the judgment does not
impact the appellate court’s jurisdiction, nor is such a scenario
“irreconcilable” with a potential outcome of the appeal.  Nor does proceeding with the trial against
the remaining defendants impact the very purpose of the appeal.  Regardless of whether the judgment in
Millennium’s (and/or Kerr’s) favor is overturned on appeal, the remaining
Defendants must still proceed with the remainder of the case and trial.  
 
Moving Defendants’ argument in this regard does not support the
request for a stay under section 916. 
Rather, this argument appeals to the Court’s inherent power to stay
proceedings to promote judicial efficiency and ensure the orderly
administration of justice.  (See, e.g., Freiberg
v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489; Cottle v.
Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1376-1379.)  As discussed below, because the defendants in
this case are largely separately situated, the Court declines to grant the
requested stay under its inherent power.
 
            As for the second argument, Moving
Defendants have provided no legal or factual basis supporting their contention
that separate trials against Millennium and/or Kerr would prejudice the
remaining defendants.  Notably, most of
the defendants are uniquely situated from one another, and are alleged to have participated
in different aspects of the procedure giving rise to Plaintiff’s injuries.  Specifically, the theory of liability against
Millennium rests solely on an alter ego theory, and will necessarily involve
alter ego evidence and arguments not relevant to the other Defendants.  Similarly, Kerr was the nurse during
Plaintiff’s procedure, and the wrongdoing alleged against Kerr is separate from
the wrongdoing alleged against the nurse who Plaintiff saw in the office prior
to the procedure, the office worker alleged to have altered medical records,
the anesthesiologist who sedated Plaintiff during the procedure, etc.  That is why the Court granted summary
judgment in favor of some Defendants but not others.  
 
            As for the third point, the Court is
not required to “preserve the status quo” as to matters “not affected by the
judgment or order.”  Resolution of the
claims against the remaining defendants has no bearing on the status quo of
Plaintiff’s claims against Kerr and Millennium, which resulted in judgments in
favor of Kerr and Millennium, and therefore will not be tried or otherwise
disturbed during the pendency of the appeal.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
denies Moving Defendants’ motion to stay the trial court proceedings pending
the appeal of the Millennium Judgment.  
 
            Moving Defendants shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
DATED: May 31, 2024                                                          ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 