 Case Number:  22STCV31294    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 22, 2022, Plaintiffs Yochonon Baitelman and Yochonon Baitelman on
behalf of Mushka Baitelman, Rivka Baitelman and Esther Baitelman, minors, filed
this action against Defendants John Alphonse Marasco (“Marasco”), Amie Jennet
Morris (“Morris”), The Los Angeles Fire Department (“LAFD”), and Does 1-10 for
motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
March 22, 2024, Morris filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Marasco, LAFD, and Roes 1-10 for indemnity, declaratory
relief, and apportionment of fault.  On
August 9, 2024, Defendant City of Los Angeles, acting by and through the Los
Angeles Fire Department (“City”), and Marasco filed an answer to the
cross-complaint. 
On
June 7, 2024, the City and Marasco filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint. On
June 27, 2024, the City filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Morris
and Roes 1-10 for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory
relief.  On June 26, 2024, Morris filed
an answer to the City’s cross-complaint. 
On August
21, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel, Jamie Lefkowitz, filed motions to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiffs Mushka Baitelman, Rivka Baitelman, and Esther Baitelman.
The motions were set for hearing on October 1, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUESTS 
Plaintiffs’
counsel, Jamie Lefkowitz, asks to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Mushka
Baitelman, Rivka Baitelman, and Esther Baitelman. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 284 provides: 
“The attorney in an action or special proceeding may
be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as
follows: 
1.             
“Upon the consent
of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 
2.             
“Upon the order
of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice
from one to the other.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 284.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service,
electronic service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION Counsel
has filed and served the required paperwork and provided the necessary
information to support the motions to be relieved as counsel.  The Court grants the motions. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Jamie Lefkowitz’s motion to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Mushka Baitelman filed on August 21, 2024.  Counsel will be relieved upon filing proof of
service on Plaintiff Mushka Baitelman of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053). 
The
Court GRANTS Jamie Lefkowitz’s motion to
be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Rivka Baitelman filed on August 21,
2024.  Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on Plaintiff Rivka Baitelman of the Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form
MC-053). 
The
Court GRANTS Jamie Lefkowitz’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Esther
Baitelman filed on August 21, 2024. 
Counsel will be relieved upon filing proof of service on Plaintiff Esther
Baitelman of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053). 
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.