 Case Number:  22STCV28496    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 31, 2022, Plaintiff Vera Merhavi (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Super Magnificent Coffee Company dba The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf,
Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield, Westfield Topanga Owner LLC, Westfield Corp, and
Does 1-30 for negligence and premises liability. 
On
October 17, 2022, Defendants Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield, Westfield Topanga
Owner, LLC, and Westfield Corp. filed an answer. 
On
October 21, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
International Coffee & Tea, LLC as Doe 1 (“ICT”). On December 5, 2022, ICT
filed an answer. 
On
January 19, 2023, the Court granted specially appearing Defendant Super
Magnificent Coffee Company’s motion to quash service of the summons and
complaint and quashed service of the summons and complaint on Defendant Super
Magnificent Coffee Company. 
On
May 2, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant West Valley
Owner, LLC, as Doe 2 (“Owner”). 
On
May 2, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendants Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield,
Westfield Topanga Owner LLC, and Westfield Corp with prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for protective order preventing
Defendants from taking her deposition and the deposition of her husband, Simon Merhavi, both of whom have Alzheimer’s disease.  ICT opposed the motion.  On July 3, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s
motion, finding that Plaintiff’s evidence did not support her contention that
she could not understand the consequences of perjury or taking an oath of
truth, would not realize if she was being untruthful, was suffering from
anxiety due to lack of cognitive awareness and poor memory, and would likely be
traumatized and might display aggressive behavior in response to being placed
in a legal environment, compromising her present medical therapy and requiring
drastic medical intervention.  The Court
also found that Plaintiff’s evidence did not support her contention that her
husband could not get up, walk, talk, or remember, receives 24/7 nurse and
family care, and is bedridden. 
 On June 24, 2024, the Court appointed Lili
Merhavi Surkin to serve as Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem. 
On
July 30, 2024, Owner filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
ICT and Roes 1-50 for implied indemnity, comparative contribution, total
equitable indemnity, express indemnity, and declaratory relief.  On August 23, 2024, ICT filed an answer to the
cross-complaint. 
On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for protective order regarding
Plaintiff’s deposition.  The motion was
set for hearing on October 1, 2024.  On
September 17, 2024, ICT and Owner filed oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 4, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to issue a protective order (1) allowing Plaintiff to attend her
deposition via Zoom, or (2) alternatively, allowing Plaintiff to provide a
deposition by written interrogatories or by Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem.  In addition, Plaintiff asks the Court to
impose restrictions on her independent medical examination. 
ICT asks the Court to deny the motion and to order Plaintiff to attend her independent medical examination.  Owner does not oppose Plaintiff's request to attend her deposition remotely and agrees with ICT that the Court should order Plaintiff to attend her independent medical examination.PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          Denied.
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in
part: 
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,
any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective
order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following
directions: 
“(1) That the deposition not be taken at all. 
“(2) That the deposition be taken at a different time. 
“(3) That a video recording of the deposition
testimony of a treating or consulting physician or of any expert witness,
intended for possible use at trial under subdivision (d) of Section 2025.620,
be postponed until the moving party has had an adequate opportunity to prepare,
by discovery deposition of the deponent, or other means, for cross-examination. 
“(4) That the deposition be taken at a place other
than that specified in the deposition notice, if it is within a distance
permitted by Sections 2025.250 and 2025.260. 
“(5) That the deposition be taken only on certain
specified terms and conditions. 
“(6) That the deponent’s testimony be taken by
written, instead of oral, examination. 
“(7) That the method of discovery be interrogatories
to a party instead of an oral deposition. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subds. (a), (b)(1)-(b)(7).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s deposition 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to allow her to attend her deposition remotely to accommodate
her physical and cognitive disabilities. 
Plaintiff has submitted evidence from her treating neurologist, Wei Mi, and others to support the request.  Dr. Mi states
that Plaintiff “is unable to understand abstract concepts such as ‘penalty of
perjury.’ ”  (Mi dec. ¶ 3, emphasis
omitted.)  In addition, Plaintiff “is
physically unable without duress and a lot of pain, to be transported to a
location in Los Angeles to sit down in an office for her deposition.” (Mi dec.
¶ 4, emphasis omitted.) In Dr. Mi’s opinion, Plaintiff “is medically incapable
of traveling to, sitting down, and responding to questions for a deposition.” (Mi
dec. ¶ 7.) 
ITC
argues that Plaintiff’s motion is an improper request to reconsider the Court's ruling on Plaintiff’s
previous motion for a protective order.  However,
the previous motion did not ask the Court for a protective order permitting
Plaintiff to attend the deposition remotely, which the current motion requests. 
Owner
does not oppose Plaintiff’s request to attend the deposition remotely. 
The
Court finds good cause and grants Plaintiff’s request for a protective order
allowing Plaintiff to attend her deposition via Zoom. 
B.   Plaintiff’s husband’s deposition 
Plaintiff’s
motion does not include a specific request for a protective order concerning
the deposition of Plaintiff’s husband, Simon Merhavi.  Although the motion contains some references
to Simon Merhavi’s deposition, these references do not amount to a request for
a court ruling where (1) the motion’s caption does not mention Simon Merhavi’s deposition, (2) the notice of
motion does not mention Simon Merhavi’s
deposition, (3) the motion’s introduction does not mention Simon Merhavi’s deposition, and (4) the motion
contains no separate discussion of the basis for a protective order concerning
Simon Merhavi’s deposition.  Therefore,
the Court does not address Simon Merhavi’s deposition. 
C.   Plaintiff’s independent medical examination 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to issue a protective order requiring ICT to conduct Plaintiff’s
independent medical examination at Plaintiff’s residence or, alternatively, at
a doctor’s office on the first floor, with “transportation provided for a
wheelchair” and “a hired nurse to escort and care for Plaintiff
during this time.”  (Motion p. 11.) 
The
protective order procedure is designed for depositions, not independent medical
examinations.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420, subd. (a) [“Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order”].)  Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.010 et seq., which govern independent medical
examinations, “contain[ ] no provision for protective orders.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 8:1542, p. 8l-8.)  Protective orders “are unnecessary because
plaintiffs can simply state their objections to the demand [for an examination]
and refuse to be examined.  Defendant
will then have to move for an order compelling the examination.”  (Ibid.) 
Here,
however, ICT and Owner agree with Plaintiff that the Court should address the
independent medical examination in this ruling. 
ICT asks the Court to order Plaintiff to attend “ ‘a standard orthopedic
examination, which may include x-rays, and a complete history of Plaintiff’s
condition before and after the date of the incident which is the subject of
this lawsuit, and respective injuries to have been allegedly sustained by Plaintiff
as a result of the incident which is the subject of this lawsuit.’ ”  (ICT opposition p. 14.)  Owner joins the request. 
In
an August 2024 deposition, Plaintiff’s daughter and caretaker Lili Merhavi-Surkin (“Merhavi-Surkin”) testified that Plaintiff
attends doctor’s appointments in person with Merhavi-Surkin.  Merhavi-Surkin transports Plaintiff to the
appointments, sometimes with help.  Plaintiff
does not bring a walker and does not need a wheelchair for these appointments;
however, Plaintiff needs to hold Merhavi-Surkin’s arm.  (Merhavi-Surkin depo. pp. 96-97.) 
In light
of this testimony, the Court orders Plaintiff to attend an independent medical
examination.  The examination shall take
place in a doctor’s office either on the first floor or in a building with an
elevator that can take Plaintiff to the floor where the examination will take
place.  The Court denies Plaintiff’s
request for orders requiring that ICT provide transportation, a wheelchair, and
a nurse. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Plaintiff Vera Merhavi’s motion for a protective order regarding Plaintiff’s deposition as follows: 
The
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Vera Merhavi’s request for a protective order
and orders that Plaintiff Vera Merhavi may attend her deposition via Zoom.  Plaintiff is ordered to attend her deposition
by October 31, 2024. 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Vera Merhavi to attend an independent medical
examination noticed by Defendant International
Coffee & Tea, LLC.  The examination
shall take place in a doctor’s office either on the first floor or in a
building with an elevator that can take Plaintiff to the floor where the
examination will take place. Plaintiff is ordered to attend the independent
medical examination by October 31, 2024. 
In
all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.