

Hearing
Date:             June 10, 2024
Case
Name:                Snyder v Cardwell
Case
No.:                    24STCV02795
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving Party:             Defendants James Cardwell, James
Cummings, Dweller, LLC, Monty the Dog Productions, Inc., Big Movie, LLC, and Leonard
Maurice Foley III

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Stephen Snyder

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration.

 
This action arises from a
transaction to acquire the rights to a feature film. Plaintiff Stephen Snyder
(Plaintiff) sued Defendants James Cardwell, James Cummings, Dweller, LLC, Monty
the Dog Productions, Inc., Big Movie, LLC, Leonard Maurice Foley III, and Mark
Styslinger for fraudulently inducing Plaintiff into executing an Acquisition
and Release Agreement where the Defendants acquired all rights, entitlements,
controls and all other interests which are associated with the motion picture
titled “Dweller.”
 
On February
20, 2024, Defendant Mark Styslinger (Styslinger) specially appeared and moved
to quash service of summons based on a lack of personal jurisdiction. Plaintiff
opposed the motion to quash, contending that there is personal jurisdiction
over Styslinger. The motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction was
granted.
 
            On
May 13, 2024, Defendants James Cardwell, James Cummings, Dweller, LLC, Monty the Dog
Productions, Inc., Big Movie, LLC, and Leonard Maurice Foley III (Defendants) filed a
motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’ arbitration agreement. Plaintiff opposes the motion to compel
arbitration. 
 
            The
motion to compel arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending the
outcome of arbitration.  
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement
 
In ruling on
a motion to compel arbitration, a court must determine two threshold matters:
first, whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists; and second, whether that
agreement encompasses the dispute at issue. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2.)   
 
            By way of
background, on February 19, 2023, Plaintiff Snyder and Defendant Dweller, LLC
entered into the Acquisition and Release Agreement (Agreement) for the
acquisition of the rights and interest in the film titled, Dweller. (Cardwell
Decl., ¶ 1, Ex. A; FAC, ¶ 17, Ex. 1, ¶ 11.)
 
Pursuant to the Agreement, Plaintiff
agreed to arbitrate any dispute. Specifically, the Agreement provides in relevant
part: 
 
“The parties agree that the laws of
the State of California shall be applied in construing this Agreement and in
enforcing the rights and remedies of Snyder and Buyer. In the event of a
dispute between Snyder and Buyer, each party waives its right to file suit in a
court of law and agrees that any dispute will be resolved through binding
arbitration (in the County of Los Angeles) using the rules of the American
Arbitration Association and applying California Law.” (Cardwell Decl., ¶¶ 1-2,
Ex. A; FAC, ¶ 17, Ex. 1, ¶ 11.)
 
            “A party
seeking arbitration must prove the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a
preponderance of the evidence.” (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 765.) It may meet its burden by complying with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1330, which provides: “A petition to compel
arbitration ... pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4
must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the
written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.”


            Here,
Defendants have met their burden of demonstrating the existence of an
arbitration agreement. 
 
Plaintiff does not dispute signing
this Agreement, or that his claims fall within the scope of this Agreement.[1]
Rather, in opposition, Plaintiff makes several arguments claiming the Agreement
is unenforceable. 
 
            First, Plaintiff
argues – citing Mansouri v. Superior Court (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 633 – that the motion to compel arbitration should be denied because Defendants
failed to make a formal demand for arbitration prior to bringing this motion. This
argument is not well taken. In Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H,
Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 572, the Court of Appeal clarified and distinguished the ruling in Mansouri
– specifically explaining that the language in Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 governs and under this statute it was sufficient that a party filed a
lawsuit rather than commencing arbitration proceedings as required by the
agreement to establish a party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai
Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.) 
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement – and by extension the arbitration
provision – has been rescinded. In support, Plaintiff cites Paragraphs 18 to
21, 27, and 102 to 108 of the First Amended Complaint (FAC).[2]
The substance of these paragraphs is that Plaintiff never received any
consideration for the Agreement such that Plaintiff validly rescinded the
Agreement. 
 
             Civil Code section 1689, subdivision (b) provides:
“A party to a contract may rescind the contract in the following cases: ... [¶]
... [¶] (2) If the consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party
fails, in whole or in part, through the fault of the party as to whom he
rescinds.” 
 
“If a
contract includes an arbitration agreement, and grounds exist to revoke [or,
more accurately, rescind] the entire contract, such grounds would also vitiate
the arbitration agreement. Thus, if an otherwise enforceable arbitration
agreement is contained in an illegal contract, a party may avoid arbitration
altogether.” (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 29–30.)
 
            Here,
specifically, Plaintiff argues that he never received any monetary compensation
in exchange for the Agreement and the film, Dweller, was never distributed in
any capacity. (5/28/24 Synder Decl., ¶¶ 2-10.) As result, Plaintiff argues the
Agreement demonstrates a failure of consideration. 
 
The Agreement
states:
 
“As consideration for Snyder
relinquishing all Rights applicable to the Picture and for providing the
applicable releases and representations; Buyer agrees to finance the cost of
distribution of the Picture known as “Dweller”. Snyder acknowledges such
Considerations are sufficient to compensate Snyder for his obligations herein.”

 
Plaintiff also alleges that the
parties had an oral agreement that required “a theatrical release with a
minimum guarantee of 750 screens nationwide in all of the major markets for
“Dweller” (5/28/24 Synder Decl., ¶ 4.) This representation was made prior to
the execution of the Agreement. (5/28/24 Synder Decl., ¶ 13 [questioning
Cardwell why this theatrical release requirement was not included in the
Agreement].)
 
            However,
the failure of the film to be distributed does not clearly show a failure by Defendant
to finance the distribution – as required by Civil Code section 1689. (Civ.
Code, § 1689 [“through the fault of the party as to whom he
rescinds”].) The evidence is unclear how a failure of financing occurred and
only indicates that there was no distribution. Thus, the evidence before the
Court on this motion – verified allegations and Synder’s vague declaration – are
insufficient to show an adequate basis for rescission that would support
rescission of the arbitration provision as well.
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that he executed the Agreement under fraud and duress. 
 
            Contrary to
the reply, Plaintiff is correct that fraud in the inducement of a contract –where
there are specific claims of fraud in the inducement with respect to the
arbitration provision – is an issue to be resolved first by the Court. 
 
            “California
law distinguishes between fraud in the ‘execution’ or ‘inception’ of a contract
and fraud in the ‘inducement’ of a contract ... in the former case ‘ “the fraud
goes to the inception or execution of the agreement, so that the promisor is
deceived as to the nature of his act, and actually does not know what he is
signing, or does not intend to enter into a contract at all, mutual assent is
lacking, and [the contract] is void. In such a case it may be disregarded
without the necessity of rescission.” ’ ” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415.) “[C]laims of fraud in the
execution of the entire agreement are not arbitrable under either state or
federal law. If the entire contract is void ab initio because of fraud, the
parties have not agreed to arbitrate any controversy.” (Id. at p. 416.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s fraud arguments are based on the assertion that Cardwell – being a
licensed attorney and in the position of power over the transaction – used
excessive pressure and exerted his dominance in multiple occasions and
specifically in demanding that Plaintiff not retain an attorney. (Snyder
Declaration, ¶¶ 12-22; Thorne Decl., ¶¶ 4-12.) Such claims, however, are of the
same general type our Supreme Court in Rosenthal held to be insufficient
for fraud in the execution.
 
            “Fraud in
the inducement, by contrast, occurs when ‘ “the promisor knows what he is
signing but his consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a
contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable. In order to
escape from its obligations the aggrieved party must rescind.” ’ ” (Rosenthal,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 415.) “[F]raud in the inducement relating to other
contractual terms does not render the arbitration agreement unenforceable, even
when it might justify rescission of the contract as a whole. By entering into
the arbitration agreement, the parties established their intent that disputes
coming within the agreement's scope be determined by an arbitrator rather than
a court; this contractual intent must be respected even with regard to claims
of fraud in the inducement of the contract generally.” (Id. at p. 416.)
 
            However, as
explained by the United States Supreme Court in Prima Paint Corp. v. Flood
& Conklin Mfg. Co. (1967) 388 U.S. 395, “if the claim is fraud in the
inducement of the arbitration clause itself—an issue which goes to the ‘making’
of the agreement to arbitrate—the federal court may proceed to adjudicate it.
But the [Federal Arbitration Act] does not permit the federal court to consider
claims of fraud in the inducement of the contract generally.” (Id. at pp.
403–404.)
 
Plaintiff
submits evidence that he requested the removal of the arbitration agreement but
Cardwell told him: “Arbitration clauses are ‘standard and
necessary in all contracts in order for them to be valid.” James Cardwell also
stated “because arbitration clauses are standard in all contracts, the
arbitration clause must remain in the contract or there is no deal. Take it or
leave it.” (5/28/24 Synder Decl., ¶ 13(d).) Plaintiff repeats that he was told
that arbitration clauses were “mandatory in all contracts.” (5/28/24 Synder
Decl., ¶ 13(e).)
 
This
fraud argument defies credulity. As Plaintiff’s own pro per opposition papers
demonstrate, Plaintiff is capable of conducting legal research and
understanding the case law and statutes. Thus, simple research and – candidly –
common sense would quickly refute Cardwell’s purported assertion that arbitration
provisions are required in all contracts to be valid. To believe otherwise
would mean that there could be no valid court claim for breach of contract
where every contract must contain an arbitration provision and be arbitrated.
Further, attached to the Complaint and FAC are numerous agreements between Plaintiff
and other parties relating to Dweller over the years; some of these contracts (which
appear to be drafted by Plaintiff) contain arbitration provisions and some do
not. For example, the March 5, 2023 Copyright Assignment contract between
Synder and Thorne does not contain an arbitration provision whereas the June 7,
2017 Writer Story Agreement sent by Synder to his writers did contain an arbitration
provision. 
 
Plaintiff
is not an unsophisticated party and as such, this claim for fraud in the
inducement is not based on reasonable reliance. As such, based on the evidence
before this Court, the claim for fraud in the inducement of the arbitration
provision is unpersuasive. 
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that he is an indigent litigant and therefore cannot be
subject to arbitration. However, this argument – even if true – alone does not
prohibit compelling this matter to arbitration.
 
            For
example, in Roldan v. Callahan & Blaine (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 87, indigent
plaintiffs were excused from paying fees for an ordered arbitration, because
“to rule otherwise might effectively deprive them of access to any forum for
resolution of their claims.” (Roldan, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at
p. 96.) The Roldan court stated that while it could not “order the
arbitration forum to waive its fees” and did not “have authority to
order [the defendants] to pay [the] plaintiffs’ share of those fees,” it did
have authority to “give [the defendants] a choice: if the trial court
determines that any of [the] plaintiffs is unable to share in the cost of the
arbitration, [the defendants] can elect to either pay that plaintiff's share of
the arbitration cost and remain in arbitration or waive [their] right to
arbitrate that plaintiff's claim.” (Ibid.) 
 
Roldan provides
that a trial court should first estimate the anticipated cost of the previously
ordered arbitration proceeding, and then determine whether any of the
plaintiffs are financially able to pay their pro rata share of that cost. (Ibid.)
If the trial court determines that any plaintiff is unable to do so, it should
order that the defendant has the option of either paying that plaintiff's share
of the arbitration cost or waiving the defendant's right to arbitrate that
plaintiff’s case and allow the case to proceed in court. (Ibid.; see
also Hang v. RG Legacy I, LLC, supra, 88 Cal.App.5th at pp.
1253-1255; Weiler v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services,
Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 970.)


            Relevant to
the issues here, Defendants assert that, “in the event that the court
determines that Plaintiff is unable to pay the cost of arbitration,
[Defendants] will agree, by declaration, to pay the costs of Plaintiff’s
arbitration.” (6/3/2024 Response, 8:17-19.) Thus, Plaintiff’s alleged inability
to pay is not a basis for denying this motion. 
 
            Lastly,
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
            If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive unconscionability
must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present
in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are evaluated on ‘ “sliding
scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to’ conclude that
the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely, the more deceptive or
coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is
required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive fairness ‘must be considered in
light of any procedural unconscionability’ in its making. [Citation.] ‘The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
             Plaintiff argues that the contract was
unilaterally drafted by Cardwell “where Snyder was never given an opportunity to negotiate or
ask for better terms or consult with an attorney.” (Opp., 10: 18-20.) This argument
is somewhat undermined by Synder’s own declaration where he states he
questioned the arbitration provision and requested its removal suggesting he
did have an opportunity to negotiate its terms even if those changes were not implemented.
Given the nature of the Agreement – a film distribution agreement – the Court
is not inclined to find the type of inherent procedural unconscionability found
in a typical consumer and employment contracts. The facts and circumstances of
this transaction do not support Plaintiff’s claim that he had “no reasonable alternative”
but to enter into this agreement on the terms provided. 
 
            Thus, Plaintiff
has not identified any procedural unconscionability in the Agreement and Plaintiff’s
unconscionability argument fails for this reason. (Baltazar v. Forever 21,
Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243.) Nonetheless, the Court will address the
substantive unconscionability argument, as well. 
            
Here, Plaintiff also argues the
Agreement is substantively unconscionable. However, Plaintiff identifies no specific
provision in the arbitration provision that is substantively unconscionable.
Rather, Plaintiff only repeats the argument that he is unable to pay for arbitration
and that “other provisions within the Agreement also subjects it to substantive
unconscionability” with identifying anything specific. 
 
Plaintiff relies on Gutierrez v.
Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77 and Frausto v. Lawyers for
Employee and Consumer Rights, APC (Cal. Ct. App., Feb. 17, 2021, No.
B305183) 2021 WL 613146, at *1 to argue that a contract of adhesion that requires the
consumer to post arbitration fees is unconscionable. However, Frausto v.
Lawyers for Employee and Consumer Rights, APC is an
unpublished case and thus not citable. Moreover, these cases are inapplicable where the contract at
issue is not a consumer contract (or an employment contract).
 
Based on the
foregoing,
Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden of showing the Agreement is
unenforceable based on unconscionability. 


CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. The motion to compel
arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration.


