 Case Number:  23GDCV00879    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar: 7 Date: 12/15/2023Case No: 23 GDCV00879 Trial Date:  None Set Case Name: HR General Construction, Inc. v. Sakamoto, et al. SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKEMoving Party: Defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie SakamotoResponding Party: Plaintiff HR General Construction, Inc.  (No Opposition)    RELIEF REQUESTED:Order striking second cause of action for fraud in plaintiff’s Complaintrequest for damages for breach of contract stemming from alleged false claim made to plaintiff’s bonding company request for punitive damages       CAUSES OF ACTION:   from (Form) Complaint 1) Breach of Contract 2) Fraud 3) General Negligence SUMMARY OF FACTS:Plaintiff HR General Construction, Inc. (HR General Construction) alleges that in December of 2021 plaintiff entered into a written contract with defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto, and that defendants breached the agreement by failing to pay the final $5,550 due on the contract and brought defendant Oswaldo Diaz in as the countertop contractor, and did not allow plaintiff to hang the painted, ready to hang doors. The complaint also alleges that the Sakamoto defendants filed a false claim under oath against plaintiff’s bond company, claiming plaintiff was responsible for a granite countertop that did not fit, and was not, color coordinated, when the truth was that the Sakamoto’s contracted directly with defendant Diaz for the counter tops.  The complaint alleges that the cabinet maker defendant Custom Furniture Design misaligned the cabinets by a 2” offset above the sink, and that defendant Diaz mis-measured the sink and counter area, resulting in a first, expensive granite counter which did not fit, and a second granite countertop had to be purchased.  Plaintiff alleges that defendants the Sakamotos filed a false claim knowing that plaintiff HR General Construction had no liability for the counter problems. The complaint also alleges cause of action for negligence against defendants Diaz and Custom Furniture Design.Defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto have filed a Cross-complaint against plaintiff HR General Construction as cross-defendant, as well as against HR General Construction’s Principal, Rafael Herrera, and the bonding company Hudson Insurance Company.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendant HR General Construction breached the written and oral contracts for the construction project by causing problems with the construction which caused delay, failing to complete construction on several items, performing substandard work, and ultimately abandoning the project.  It is also alleged that after HR General Construction stopped work on the project, cross-complainants filed complaints with the Contractor’s State License Board and the Better Business Bureau, and in January of 2023 were advised by the CSLB representatives that they could file a claim against HR General Constructions’ surety bond under Business & Professions Code section 7107.  The complaint alleges that cross-complainants became aware that HR General Construction’s contractor’s licensed had expired in November of 2022, and, fearful that the license bond was the only avenue to recover damages, cross-complainants submitted a claim on HR General Construction’s license bond to cross-defendant Hudson Insurance. The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for breach of written contract, breach of oral contract, money had and received, and money due on contractor’s license bond.  ANALYSIS:Defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto seek an order striking the second cause of action of plaintiff’s complaint, as well as portions of the first cause of action and the claim for punitive damages asserted in the complaint pursuant to CCP § 425.16, which provides:“(a) The Legislature finds and declares that there has been a disturbing increase in lawsuits brought primarily to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights of freedom of speech and petition for the redress of grievances.   The Legislature finds and declares that it is in the public interest to encourage continued participation in matters of public significance, and that this participation should not be chilled through abuse of the judicial process.   To this end, this section shall be construed broadly.(b) (1)  A cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.(2) In making its determination, the court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”Subdivision (e) defines “act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue” to include statements made before an official proceeding, in connection with an issue under consideration by an official proceeding, in a “place open to the public or in a public forum” in connection with an issue of public interest, “or any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.”   The latter two categories require a specific showing the action concerns a matter of public interest; the first two categories do not require this showing.  Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1117-1120.      The California Supreme Court in Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. La Marche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728 set forth the manner in which the trial court is to apply CCP § 425.16:“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion “requires the court to engage in a two-step process. First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity. The moving defendant's burden is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the [defendant]'s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue,’ as defined in the statute. (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds such a showing has been made, it then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.”” Jarrow, at 733, quoting Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67. The Court summarized it previous decisions addressing the statute, and noted:“And in a trio of opinions issued last year, we held that the plain language of the “arising from” prong encompasses any action based on protected speech or petitioning activity as defined in the statute (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89–95, 124 Cal.Rptr.2d 530, 52 P.3d 703 (Navellier )), rejecting proposals that we judicially engraft the statute with requirements that defendants moving thereunder also prove the suit was intended to chill their speech (Equilon, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 58, 124 Cal.Rptr.2d 507, 52 P.3d 685) or actually had that effect (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 75, 124 Cal.Rptr.2d 519, 52 P.3d 695).Jarrow, at 734. An order granting or denying an anti-SLAPP motion is reviewed de novo.  Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820; Lam v. Ngo (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 832, 845.  Defendants argue here that plaintiff’s fraud claim and certain allegations in its breach of contract claim and request for damages are based on defendants Sakamoto’s submission of their claim to Hudson Insurance to recover on plaintiff’s license bond.  Defendants argue that those allegations fall within CCP § 425.16 (e), which defines act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech to include “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)  any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law…”  It is held that the right to petition includes any communications preparatory to or in anticipation of commencing official proceedings.  Comstock v. Aber (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 931, 943 (“Communications that are preparatory to or in anticipation of commencing official proceedings come within the protection of the anti-SLAPP statute.”)  Defendants argue that it has long been recognized that communications in preparation for claiming statutorily authorized liens fall within the definition of protected activity.  In RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co., Inc. (2020)  56 Cal.App.5th 413, the court of appeal found that the trial court had properly granted an anti-SLAPP motion, finding specifically that the filing of a mechanic’s lien was a protected communication under CCP section 425.16 (e)(1), that is, a written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive or judicial proceeding, or under subdivision (e)(1), that is, a statement made, “in connection with an issue under consideration or review in such proceedings.”  RGC Gaslamp, at 425.  The court of appeal also observed that, “Statements made in preparation for litigation or in anticipation of bringing an action fall within these categories.”   RGC Gaslamp, at 425; See also Wilton v. Mountain Wood Homeowners Assn.  (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 565, 569-70 (finding publication of homeowners assessment liens, which may be foreclosed judicially or by private sale, is nevertheless subject to litigation privilege). Defendants argue that similar to the lien cases, a demand for recovery on a contractor’s license bond made against a surety is also a creature of California legislation. Business & Professions Code §7071.5 provides, in pertinent part:“The contractor's bond required by this article shall be executed by an admitted surety in favor of the State of California, in a form acceptable to the registrar and filed with the registrar by the licensee or applicant. The contractor's bond shall be for the benefit of the following:(a) A homeowner contracting for home improvement upon the homeowner's personal family residence damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter by the licensee.”Specifically, in California, the CSLB requires that contractors have a contractor’s license bond on file with the CSLB in the amount of $25,000.  Business & Professions Code §7071.6. The CSLB is an administrative agency of the State of California and a part of the California Department of Consumer Affairs. Business & Professions Code, §7000.5(a) (“There is in the Department of Consumer Affairs, a Contractors State License Board…); In Contractors' State License Board v. Superior Court (1960) 187 Cal.App.2d 557, the Second District noted that CSLB is“an administrative agency of the state, charged by law with the duty of investigating the actions of any contractor within the state and of taking disciplinary action against any such contractor should its investigation disclose reason to believe that the contractor has committed any acts which, under the provisions of the statute, are made grounds for disciplinary action.” Contractors’ State, at 560. Defendants rely on authority under which the Second District has held that a complaint made to the CSLB and any statements in connection with that complaint constitute part of an “official proceeding” for purposes of the litigation privilege set forth at Civil Code section 47 (b).  Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 513, 517-18.  While Rodas was determined on demurrer, and did not involve the anti-SLAPP statute, it appears to support a conclusion in this matter that communications to the CSLB would be similarly considered part of an official proceeding. Defendants submit evidence that they submitted a claim to the CSLB in anticipation of invoking an official proceeding with respect to plaintiff’s conduct and were advised by the CSLB of their right to pursue plaintiff’s license bond. [Sakamoto Decl., paras. 11, 14, Ex. D]. Defendants indicate that they pursued the demand against the bond to recover damages for the rules violations recognized by the CSLB, and with their claim provided Hudson Insurance with the CSLB complaint.  [Sakamoto Decl. paras. 16-19, Exs. E, F].  The investigation by the CSLB is evidently ongoing.  [Sakamoto Decl., para. 20]. Defendants argue that the demand on the license bond was a necessary action to recover on the bond under California law and statements made by defendants in the claim fall under the protection of the anti-SLAPP statute and constitute protected activity.  There has been no opposition served or filed here, so no legal argument why the communications to recover on the licensing bond would not constitute protected activity directed at recovering relief recognized appropriate in an official proceeding.  The pursuit of the bond could be construed as in the nature of pursuing the remedies provided by the state agency for violation of statutory duties, in the nature of communications undertaken to enforce a judgment.   In O’Keefe v. Kompa (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 130, the court of appeal affirmed that the absolute privilege applied to the act of filing an abstract of judgment, even where the abstract was alleged to have been fraudulent, on the ground that such efforts were “an extension of the judicial process” and “were logically and legally related to the realization of a litigation objective-- that is, collection of a judgment.”  See Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1060, quoting O’Keefe, at 134-135.   Defendants have satisfied the first prong of the statute with respect to the allegations concerning communications to the bonding company Hudson Insurance, so that the burden shifts to plaintiff HR General Construction to establish a reasonable probability of prevailing on such claims. In making its determination as to the probability of the plaintiff prevailing on its claim, the court does not weigh the evidence, or determine questions of credibility.  It merely determines whether plaintiff has established by admissible evidence, a prima facie case, which, if believed by the trier of fact, would result in judgment for the plaintiff.  Mattel, Inc. v. Lude, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (2002, 2nd Dist.) 99 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1188; Nagel v. Twin Laboratories (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 39, 45-46.   In order to establish a probability of prevailing on the claim, “plaintiff ‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’” Premier Medical Management Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006, 2nd Dist.) 136 Cal.App.4th 464, 476, italics omitted, quoting Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548.  Such a showing “must be based on admissible evidence.” Fashion 21 v. Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (2004, 2nd Dist) 117 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1147.     As noted above, plaintiff has failed to oppose this motion, so has failed to meet this burden.   In addition, defendants in the moving papers point out that plaintiff has failed to sufficiently plead a viable cause of action against defendants, as the complaint does not allege that any representations were made to plaintiff, rather than to a third party, Hudson Insurance.  In California, to establish a claim for fraud, a plaintiff must establish five elements, (1) a misrepresentation; (2) the knowledge the misrepresentation is false; (3) the intent to induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages.  Cohen v. Kabbalah Centre International, Inc. (2019, 2nd Dist.) 35 Cal.App.5th 13, 20, citing Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1255. The representations, which are alleged to have been misrepresentations are not alleged to have been made to plaintiff, but to plaintiff’s bond company, and were that plaintiff was responsible for a granite countertop.  [Complaint, FR-2].  To the extent the pleading alleges that plaintiff acted in justifiable reliance on the misrepresentations, the pleading alleges that plaintiff could not complete the contract and has had to deal with the false claim and was induced to walk away from the job.  [Complaint FR-5].  This action does not appear to have been conduct undertaken in reliance on any representation made to plaintiff.  The fraud cause of action is accordingly not properly stated by plaintiff as against moving defendants.     Under the circumstances, plaintiff has failed to establish a well stated cause of action, a prima facie case against defendants, or any probability of prevailing on the merits on the second cause of action for fraud, and the motion will be granted.  The second cause of action for fraud as against moving defendants is stricken with prejudice from the complaint.   Defendants also briefly argue that specific allegations referring to filing of the claim with the bonding company should likewise be stricken from the first cause of action claim for damages, and the exemplary damages attachment.  However, defendants fail to make a sufficient legal argument to establish that the communications with the bonding company as set forth as one of multiple basis for those claims are properly stricken from the complaint under the anti-SLAPP statute.   To the extent the defendants argue that if the motion is granted, they should be awarded attorney’s fees and costs, defendants have correctly observed that such relief may be sought by the filing of a noticed motion supporting such an award.   RULING:[No Opposition]Defendant Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto’s UNOPPOSED Special Motion to Strike Complaint Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16 is GRANTED as to the second cause of action for fraud.  The moving papers have sufficiently established that the second cause of action of the Complaint arises out of protected activity, shifting the burden to plaintiff to establish a probability that plaintiff will prevail on the claims.  Plaintiff has failed to oppose the motion, so has failed to submit argument or evidence showing that there is a probability of prevailing.  The Court also notes that the fraud cause of action does not appear to properly allege such a claim against the moving defendants based on representations made not to plaintiff, but to a third party, and upon which plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege it reasonable relied. The second cause of action for fraud in the Complaint is ORDERED STRICKEN WITH PREJUDICE as to moving defendants Scott Sakamoto and Jamie Sakamoto.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 