  Case Number:  21STCV40539    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  73 9/12/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CHUNG v. PALUX OPTICS CORP, et al. (21STCV40539)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff: Charles Ray (Ray & Seyb LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants: Pro Per 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 1/30/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 3, 2021, Plaintiff Edward
Chung filed this employment action against Defendant Billy Lee, aka Billy K.
Lee, doing business as Palux Optics Corp. 
 
On May 31, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action:  
1.     
Breach
of Contract
2.     
Failure
to Pay Earned Wages
3.     
Failure
to Timely Pay Wages at Time of Termination
4.     
Wrongful
Termination and Retaliation in Violation of Public Policy
The FAC
alleges that Plaintiff Edward Chung (hereinafter “Plaintiff”) while working for
Defendant Billy Lee, aka Billy K. Lee, doing business as Palux Optics Corp.
(hereinafter collectively referred to as “Defendant”) was denied payment of
wages and suffered retaliation culminating in his wrongful termination in
violation of public policy. Due to the Defendant’s conduct, Plaintiff
experienced loss of wages, emotional distress and other damages.
On January
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication of the
FAC’s first, second, third and fourth causes of action. 
No opposition
was filed. 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment or adjudication of the FAC’s
first, second, third and fourth causes of action.
 
A.     
Legal Standard
 
Code of
Civil Procedure Section 437c(f) provides that a defendant may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action or one or more claims for
damages if it is contended that the cause or claim has no merit. Motions for
summary adjudication are procedurally identical to motions for summary
judgment. (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830,
859.)
 
“A party may move for summary
adjudication of issues, either by itself or as an alternative to summary
judgment. If it appears that the proof supports the granting of the motion for
summary adjudication as to some but not all the issues involved in the action,
or that one or more of the issues raised by a claim is admitted, or that one or
more of the issues raised by a defense is conceded, the court shall, by order,
specify that those issues are without substantial controversy. Moreover, upon a
motion for summary adjudication, the court shall, by written order or oral
order recorded verbatim, specify those issues raised by the motion for summary
adjudication as to which there exists a material, triable controversy, and
shall specifically refer to the evidence which establishes a triable issue of
fact regarding each of those issues ....”  (Cal.
Code. Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)).   
 
A plaintiff
moving for summary judgment/summary adjudication bears the initial burden of
showing that “there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved
each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the
cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Plaintiff's¿initial¿burden¿of
proof in moving for summary judgment, however, d[oes] not include disproving any
affirmative defenses asserted by defendants.”  (Oldcastle
Precast, Inc. v. Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co.¿(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554,
564, citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853
(“Aguilar”) [“summary judgment law in this state no longer requires
a¿plaintiff¿moving for summary judgment to disprove any defense asserted by the
defendant as well as prove each element of his own cause of action.... All that
the¿plaintiff¿need do is to ‘prove[ ] each element of the cause of
action’ ”])  Once Plaintiff meets its initial burden of
proving each element of the cause of action, “the burden shifts to the defendant
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action¿or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶]
Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s showing has established facts
which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor.
. . .
[¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final
step is to determine whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
 
The
California Supreme Court has recently confirmed that the purpose of the 1992
and 1993 amendments to the summary judgment statute was “‘to liberalize the
granting of [summary judgment] motions.’” (Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne, LLC (2017)
2 Cal.5th 536, 542.)  It is no longer called a “disfavored” remedy. 
“Summary judgment is now seen as a ‘particularly suitable means to test the
sufficiency’ of the plaintiff’s or defendant’s case.”  (Ibid.) 
 
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence
may be so lacking in probative value that it fails to raise any triable
issue.’”  (Whitmire v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th
1078, 1083-1084.)  “A complete failure of proof concerning an essential
element of the nonmoving party's case necessarily renders all other facts
immaterial.”  (Hunter v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at
865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25
Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet her burden of proof
regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts are rendered
immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits
strictly, construe the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts
about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation
omitted.)  “The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve
issues of fact. The court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue
of material fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th
740, 754; internal citation omitted.)    "[S]ummary
judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of] more than one
reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     
First, Second and Third Causes of Action: Breach of Contract,
Failure to Pay Earned Wages, and Failure to Timely Pay Wages at Time of
Termination
 
Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication of the
first, second and third causes of action. 
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
Pursuant to Cal. Lab. Code § 201, when an
employee is discharged, the employee's earned and unpaid wages become due and
payable immediately. Further, Cal. Lab. Code § 202 requires employers to
compensate their employees their final paycheck immediately upon termination.
 
Cal. Lab. Code § 203 (a) provides: “If an
employer willfully fails to pay, without abatement or reduction, in accordance
with Sections 201, 201.3, 201.5, 202, and 205.5, any wages of an employee who
is discharged or who quits, the wages of the employee shall continue as a
penalty from the due date thereof at the same rate until paid or until an
action therefor is commenced; but the wages shall not continue for more than 30
days.”
 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiff entered into an
Employment Agreement with Defendant on or about January 9, 2019, in which
Plaintiff was to work as a general manager for Defendant, and in return for his
services, Defendant was to compensate Plaintiff $60,000.00 annually payable
monthly on the last day of each month. (FAC, ¶¶ 10-12.) The FAC further alleges that despite
Plaintiff’s performance, Defendants breached the Employment Agreement by
failing to compensate Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 22-23.) Plaintiff alleges he never received
payment from Defendant during his employment and Plaintiff was terminated in or
about March 2019. (FAC, ¶¶ 23-24.) The FAC alleges that as a result,
Plaintiff has suffered damages and loss of earnings. (FAC, ¶¶ 24-26.)
 
Plaintiff argues that there exist no disputed
issues of material fact regarding any of the elements of the breach of the
Employment Agreement and Defendant’s failure to compensate Plaintiff. In
support, Plaintiff submits his declaration and the Employment Agreement. (Chung
Decl., ¶
3, Ex. 3.) The executed Employment Agreement states, in
relevant part:
 
“As
compensation for the services provided by Edward Eunjay Chung under this
Contract, Palux Optics Corp. will pay Edward Eunjay Chung an annual salary of
$60,000.00 payable monthly on the last day of each month and subject to
applicable federal, state, and local withholding.” 
 
(Chung Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 3, p. 1.) Plaintiff states that he never received
compensation from Defendant during his employment and that he has suffered loss
of earnings. (Chung Decl., ¶¶ 6-11.)
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff also attaches
purported text messages between him and Defendant Lee as evidence. However, the
messages appear to be in Korean and Plaintiff fails to provide a certified
translation. Evidence
Code §753(a) provides that “[w]hen the written characters in a writing offered
in evidence are incapable of being deciphered or understood directly, a
translator who can decipher the characters or understand the language shall be
sworn to decipher or translate the writing.” Specifically with respect to
motions, California Rule of Court 3.1110(g) requires that for any filing to the
court, “[e]xhibits written in a foreign language must be accompanied by an
English translation, certified under oath by a qualified interpreter.” Thus, the Court disregards this evidence. 
 
Nevertheless, the Court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden. Plaintiff
provided a copy of the Employment Agreement showing the existence of a contract
between the parties and Plaintiff sufficiently provided testimony attesting to Defendant’s
failure to pay Plaintiff’s wages. The burden shifts to Defendant. Yet,
Defendant did not file an opposition and did not provide evidence of a disputed
material issue of fact. 
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
first, second and third causes of action. 
 
C.     
Fourth Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination and Retaliation in
Violation of Public Policy
 
Next, Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication
of the fourth cause of action. 
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge
in violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2)
the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was
substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge
caused the plaintiff harm.  It is well
established that a termination premised on an employee’s refusal to violate
either a statute or an administrative regulation may support a claim for
wrongful termination in violation of public policy.”  (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical
Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, cleaned up.) Pursuant to Cal.
Lab. Code § 98.6, it is unlawful to terminate an employee in retaliation for
claiming unpaid wages, reporting another wage and hour violation, or filing a
lawsuit to claim backpay.
 
As
discussed above, Plaintiff has sufficiently established an employer-employee
relationship by providing the executed Employment Agreement and Plaintiff’s
testimony that he was employed by Defendant. Plaintiff states in his
declaration that he raised the issue of not receiving any compensation for his
services to Defendant, and Defendant subsequently terminated him in or around
March 2019. (Chung Decl., ¶¶ 6-8.) Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently met his burden as to the fourth cause
of action. The burden shifts to Defendant. However, Defendant did not file an
opposition and did not provide evidence of a disputed material issue of
fact. 
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action. In sum, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 