  Case Number:  22SMCV01121    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01121




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Documents from Third Party




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Brittany Perrineau




OPPOSING PARTY


Non-party
  Borgese Construction & Development, Inc.



 
MOTIONS
 
On February 10, 2023, real estate investors Plaintiffs Brittany
Perrineau, Harold Perrineau, and Joon Productions, Inc. (“Plaintiffs”) filed
the operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Patrick
McKenna; Leslie Gornik; Palisades Funding, Inc.; Palisades Capital Management
LLC; Palisades Development Company, Inc.; Pali Cap Management 9, LLC; Palisades
Capital Fund 4, LLC; Palisades Capital Fund 8, LLC; and Palisades Capital Fund
7, LLC (“Defendants”), alleging eleven causes of action for (1) material
misrepresentations and misleading statements in the sale of a security; (2)
sale of unqualified securities; (3) joint and several liability pursuant to
Corporations Code § 25504; (4) joint and several liability pursuant to
Corporations Code § 25504.1; (5) breach of fiduciary duty; (6) violation of
California Business and Professions Code §§ 17200; (7) constructive fraud; (8)
breach of written contract; (9) breach of written contract; (10) common counts;
and (11) declaratory relief.  On April
12, 2024, Defendant Palisades Capital Fund Management, LLC was substituted as
Doe 1.  In summary, this action stems
from a dispute concerning Plaintiffs’ investment in Defendants’ allegedly
fraudulent real estate investment securities. 

 
Plaintiff Brittany Perrineau (“Plaintiff” or “Perrineau”) now moves for
an order compelling third-party Borgese Development and Construction, Inc.
(“Borgese”) to produce documents requested pursuant to a subpoena and to impose
monetary sanctions in the amount of $8,142.60 against Borgese and its counsel
of record, David Lederer, Esq. of Lederer & Nojima for failure to comply
with the subpoena and raising frivolous objections thereto.
 
Borgese opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to Compel
 
“In California, discovery may
be obtained from a nonparty through an oral deposition, a written deposition,
or a deposition for the production of business records and things. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (a).)” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior
Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1030 (“Board of
Registered Nursing”).) “To pursue the deposition of a nonparty, a party must
generally serve a deposition subpoena.” (Ibid.)
 
“‘A deposition subpoena that
commands only the production of business records for copying shall designate
the business records to be produced either by specifically describing each
individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item, and
shall specify the form in which any electronically stored information is to be
produced, if a particular form is desired.’ [Citation.]” (Board of
Registered Nursing, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1030.)
 
“‘If a deponent fails to
answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.’ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra,
59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1031.) “‘[D]iscovery conducted by
way of a business records subpoena is a
“deposition.”’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 1031-1032.) “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an order . . .
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
            Borgese
was the general contractor for the Pratt House (located at 1362 Bella Ocean
Vista in Pacific Palisades), and Borgese also worked on the Gunston Drive
property (located at 107 Gunston Drive) – two multi-million-dollar real
properties at the heart of the alleged scheme. 
(Stein Decl. ¶¶ 2, 8 and Ex. 8; see also SAC ¶¶ 10, 13, 28, 32.)
 
Plaintiff served the third-party
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records on Borgese by personal
service and on Defense counsel electronically on May 15, 2024.  (Stein Decl. ¶ 3 and Exs. 2-3.)  Borgese’s counsel immediately emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel, indicating Borgese would incur substantial costs producing
the voluminous files being requested.  (Stein
Decl. ¶ 4 and Ex. 4.)  On June 5, 2024,
Borgese served objections based on non-compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
section 1985.3, subdivision (e), concerning consumer notices.  (Stein Decl. ¶ 6 and Ex. 6.)  Borgese failed to produce any records by the
June 10, 2024 deadline indicated in the subpoena.  (Stein Decl. ¶¶ 2, 7 and Ex. 1.)
 
            Plaintiff
now moves to compel the following documents:
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and/or Patrick McKenna and any
entity that he did business CONCERNING 1362 Bella Oceana Vista, Pacific
Palisades, California 90272 including but not limited to correspondence, emails,
texts, social media, contracts, change orders, settlement agreements, payments
to you, receipts for construction, accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU
or against YOU, and any other written documents
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 2: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and Palisades Capital
Management, LLC CONCERNING 1362 Bella Oceana Vista, Pacific Palisades,
California 90272 including but not limited to correspondence, emails, texts,
social media, contracts, change orders, settlement agreements, payments to you,
receipts for construction, accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU or
against YOU, and any other written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 3: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and Pali Cap Management 9, LLC
CONCERNING 1362 Bella Oceana Vista, Pacific Palisades, California 90272
including but not limited to correspondence, emails, texts, social media, contracts,
change orders, settlement agreements, payments to you, receipts for
construction, accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU or against YOU, and
any other written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 4: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and Palisades Funding, Inc.
CONCERNING 1362 Bella Oceana Vista, Pacific Palisades, California 90272
including but not limited to correspondence, emails, texts, social media, contracts,
change orders, settlement agreements, payments to you, receipts for
construction, accounting statements, legal +claims, by YOU or against YOU, and
any other written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 5: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and Patrick McKenna and/or any
entity that he did business CONCERNING 107 Gunston Drive, Los Angeles,
California 90049 including but not limited to correspondence, emails, texts,
social media, contracts, change orders, settlement agreements, payments to you,
receipts for construction, accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU or
against YOU, and any other written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 6: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and Palisades Capital Fund 7,
LLC CONCERNING 107 Gunston Drive, Los Angeles, California 90049 including but
not limited to correspondence, emails, texts, social media, contracts, change
orders, settlement agreements, payments to you, receipts for construction,
accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU or against YOU, and any other
written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 7: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and Palisades Funding, Inc.
CONCERNING 107 Gunston Drive, Los Angeles, California 90049 including but not
limited to correspondence, emails, texts, social media, contracts, change
orders, settlement agreements, payments to you, receipts for construction,
accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU or against YOU, and any other
written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 8: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and the Heidy Rossi Torres and
Matias Mencos Family Trust Dated June 18, 2018 or its legal representatives
CONCERNING 1362 Bella Oceana Vista, Pacific Palisades, California 90272
including but not limited to correspondence, emails, texts, social media,
contracts, change orders, settlement agreements, payments to you, receipts for
construction, accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU or against YOU, and
any other written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 9: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and the Chris Pratt or his
legal representatives CONCERNING 1362 Bella Oceana Vista, Pacific Palisades,
California 90272 including but not limited to correspondence, emails, texts,
social media, contracts, change orders, settlement agreements, payments to you,
receipts for construction, accounting statements, legal claims, by YOU or
against YOU, and any other written documents.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 10: Any and all DOCUMENTS in
your possession, custody, or control between YOU and Patrick McKenna or any
business entities that he used CONCERNING any properties YOU did any
construction work during the period of 2014 through 2022 excepting those
DOCUMENTS produced pursuant to Request Nos. 1-9.
 
(See
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement.)  
 
Borgese raised objections based on (1) Plaintiff’s failure to comply
with the consumer notice requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3,
subdivision (e); (2) right to privacy; and (3) the requests are vague,
ambiguous and overbroad as to time and scope.
 
            Plaintiff
argues the consumer notice requirement only applies to electronic consumer data
maintained by a:
 
• Physician; 
• Psychotherapist (as defined in Ev.C. § 1010); 
• Dentist; 
• Ophthalmologist or optometrist; 
• Chiropractor; 
• Physical therapist; 
• Acupuncturist; 
• Podiatrist; 
• Hospital, medical center, clinic, radiology or MRI center, clinical
or diagnosis laboratory; 
• Pharmacy or pharmacist;
• Attorney; 
• Accountant; 
• Bank, savings and loan association; 
• Credit union or member of Federal Credit System; 
• Securities brokerage; 
• Mortgage loan broker; 
• Escrow agent; 
• Private or public school or community college; 
• Title company or insurance company; 
• Trust company; 
• Telephone company; or 
• Veterinarian or veterinary hospital or clinic. 
 
(Ibid.)  
 
            Regarding
privacy, Plaintiff argues “corporations do not have a right of privacy
protected by the California Constitution.” 
(SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th
741, 755.)
 
            As
to the overbreadth argument, Plaintiff contends the requests are sufficiently
limited to the specific parties and properties at issue, as identified in each
request.
 
            Borgese
opposes, arguing that Plaintiff seeks “personal records” that are maintained by
an attorney, accountant, and state or national bank.  (Opp. at p. 5.)
 
            Borgese
also cites to Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 770, 795
as standing for the proposition that “Although corporations have a lesser right
to privacy than human beings due to the public nature of the business entity,
some right to privacy exists.”  Borgese also
cites case law dictating that where an individual’s right to privacy in his
finances, the requests must be narrowly drawn, and argues that Plaintiff’s
requests are too overbroad to satisfy this requirement because they are not limited
by time period.
 
            The
Court finds Borgese’s arguments unpersuasive. 
With respect to Borgese’s first argument, that some of the requested records
are maintained by an attorney, an accountant, and a state or national bank, as
a threshold matter, Borgese does not identify any specific consumer documents
responsive to the request that are maintained by an attorney, accountant, or
state or national bank.  To the extent
the records are in Borgese’s possession, custody, or control, the fact that
they contain information that may also be maintained by an attorney, accountant,
or state or national bank does not necessarily shield them from discovery.  The requests have been directed to Borgese,
who is a general contractor.  Borgese
does not contend that it is an attorney, an accountant, or a state or national
bank.  Further, Borgese did not produce
any documents in response to the subpoena, and it seems unlikely that all
responsive records in Borgese’s possession, custody, or control constitute the
type of records contemplated by Section 1985.3, such as medical or financial
records.
 
            With
regard to Borgese’s second argument, “Because the corporate privacy right is
not constitutionally protected, the issue presented in determining whether
Western's requests for production infringe that right is resolved by a
balancing test. The discovery's relevance to the subject matter of the pending
dispute and whether the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence is balanced against the corporate right of
privacy. Doubts about relevance generally are resolved in favor of permitting
discovery.”  (SCC Acquisitions, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756 [cleaned up].)
 
            Regarding
requests 1 through 9, the Court finds that they are adequately limited by documents
involving a specific party and a specific property.  Since Borgese’s work as contractor on the two
properties was presumably of limited duration, the requests would necessarily
be limited to the time frame in which Borgese worked with the identified
parties regarding the identified properties. 

 
            Regarding
request 10, although the request concerns any other properties Borgese worked
on for McKenna, it is limited to 2014 through 2022.  The SAC alleges Plaintiff was first
introduced to McKenna in 2015 (SAC ¶ 22) and that Defendants continued to
solicit Plaintiff for additional investments through 2021 (SAC ¶ 35.)  Thus, the time limitation of 2014 through
2022 is narrowly drawn to elicit the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
Sanctions
 
            “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(j).)  
 
The Court does not find that
Borgese acted with substantial justification in opposing Plaintiff’s motion to
compel.  As such, monetary sanctions are
warranted.
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in
the amount of $8,142.60, representing 6 hours of attorney Stein’s time to
prepare the motion plus 3 hours to review the opposition and prepare a reply
and 2 hours to appear for and attend the hearing at an hourly rate of $500, and
4 hours of attorney Chodos’ time spent on the motion and 1 hour attending the
hearing, for a total of 16 attorney hours at an hourly rate of $500.  In addition, Plaintiff seeks $67.60 in filing
fees and $75 in copying costs.  
 
The Court finds the attorney
time spent on the motion excessive, and awards reasonable attorneys’ fees in
the amount of $2,067.60, representing 2 hours of attorney time to prepare the
motion, 1 hour to review the opposition and prepare the reply, and 1 hour
attend the hearing, plus $67.60 in filing fees.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Borgese’s
compliance with the deposition subpoena in its entirety and orders Borgese to
comply with the deposition subpoena within 30 days of notice of the Court’s
orders, unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise. 

 
Further, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in
the amount of $2,067.60 against Borgese and Borgese’s counsel, jointly and
severally, payable by and through Plaintiff’s counsel, within 30 days of notice
of the Court’s Orders.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  September 9, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court