 Case Number:  22STCV39714    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 2, 2024                                  TRIAL DATE:  July 29,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                         David Aguilera v. General
Motors, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV39714
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
David Aguilera
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant GM
Motors, LLC
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff, David Aguilera, filed this
lemon law action against Defendant, GM Motors, LLC, alleging causes of action
for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability under the Song-Beverly
Act, (2) Breach of Express Warranty under the Song-Beverly Act, and (3) Fraudulent
Concealment.  
 
            On February
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Defendant’s further responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 12.1 and 15.1.  Plaintiff does not request sanctions.
 
            Defendant
filed opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
                         
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2030.300, parties may move for a further response to interrogatories
where an answer to the requests are evasive or incomplete or where an objection
is without merit or too general.¿ 
¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).)¿ The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further discovery
contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a
statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
1.      Procedural
Requirements  
 
Unless notice of the motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the
interrogatory, demand for inspection, or request for admission.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.290, subd. (c).)¿ Here, Defendant served unverified,
objection-only responses to the at issue discovery requests.  Therefore, the 45-day deadline was not
triggered.  (See Appleton v. Superior
Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) 
Further, there is no dispute over the timeliness of these motions.  Accordingly, the court finds the motions are
timely.¿ The court further finds that the Informal Discovery Conference (IDC)
requirement has been satisfied.  (See Minute
Order (Informal Discovery Conference), 1/19/24.) 
 
GM argues, however, the meet and
confer requirement has not been satisfied. 
The court finds otherwise.  Plaintiff
attaches email correspondence showing multiple attempts to meet and confer with
Defendant prior to the filing of this motion. (See Mot., Request for Production
of Documents, Rabieian Decl., ¶¶ 20-23; Mot., Special Interrogatories, Rabieian
Decl., ¶¶ 19-22.)   
 
2.     
Form Interrogatories
 
Section 2030.220(a) requires
responses to each interrogatory “to the extent possible” which are “as complete
and straightforward as the information reasonably available” to the responding
party.¿ Section 2030.220 (c) states:¿ If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.¿¿ “The
responding party must make a reasonable effort to obtain wherever information
is sought; and if unable to do so, must specify why the information is
unavailable and what efforts the responding party made to obtain it.” (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782; Weil & Brown, Cal. Civ.
Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:1061.)
 
Plaintiff seeks a further response
to Form Interrogatory (“FROG”), Set One, Nos. 12.1  and 15.1. 
The court addresses each in turn.
 
FROG
No. 12.1:  State the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number
of each individual: (a) who witnessed the INCIDENT or the events occurring
immediately before or after the INCIDENT; (b) who made any statement at the
scene of the INCIDENT; (c) who heard any statements made about the INCIDENT by
any individual at the scene; and (d) who YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF
claim has knowledge of the INCIDENT (except for expert witnesses covered by
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034).
 
Defendant responded: “GM objects
to this Interrogatory because the term “incident” is vague and ambiguous in the
context of this lawsuit, which asserts breach of warranty claims based upon the
performance of a specific vehicle over a period of time and not for a single,
identifiable “incident.” GM also objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it
calls for information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or the
work-product doctrine. (See Nacht & Lewis Arch. v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 214.) GM also objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks
information equally available to Plaintiff as it is to GM. 
 
Subject to and without waiving its
Objections, GM answers as follows with respect to (a-d): Other than (i)
Plaintiff, (ii) employees of the dealership(s) where Plaintiff’s vehicle was
serviced, and (iii) GM call center advisors with whom Plaintiff may have
communicated regarding the subject vehicle, GM is not aware of any other
individuals who may have responsive information.  Accordingly, and pursuant to California Civil
Code § 2030.230, GM refers Plaintiff to the following documents, which GM is
producing in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, in which
Plaintiff may identify for himself the individuals with the information he
seeks: Any incidentally obtained repair orders regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE;
Service Request Activity Report(s); and the Global Warranty History Report.” 
 
Defendant’s objections are not
well-taken. Defendant identified the categories of relevant persons
demonstrating the objection based vagueness and ambiguity lacks merit.  Further, the interrogatory does not seek
information protected by any privilege.  To the extent that it does, Defendant must
still identify the purportedly privileged information.  (See Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 285, 292.)  Most
importantly, the substantive responses are incomplete and not
Code-compliant.  Defendant cannot point
to documents and ask Plaintiff to cull out the responsive information.  A further response is warranted.
 
FROG
No. 15.1: Identify
each denial of a material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in
your pleadings and for each: (a) state all facts upon which you base the denial
or special or affirmative defense; (b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and
telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (c)
identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your denial or special
or affirmative defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of
the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.
 
Defendant responded: “GM’s
investigation and discovery into this matter is ongoing. Indeed, it has not had
an opportunity to depose Plaintiffs, or inspect the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
Consequently, it is not possible at this time to state all facts upon which GM
bases its denials and affirmative defenses, which GM asserted to preserve them.
In addition, documents and the identities of persons with knowledge of facts
supporting GM’s denials and affirmative defenses are not completely known at
this time. Some of these witnesses may include experts. Answering further, GM
intends to rely upon the documents it is producing in response to Plaintiffs’
Request for Production of Documents. GM reserves the right to supplement or
amend this Response during the course of this proceeding.” 
 
Defendant’s response is evasive
and incomplete.  Defendant must provide a
response based on the knowledge it currently possesses and may reasonably
obtain.  If Defendant learns additional
information, Defendant may amend its response at that time.  A further response is warranted.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED.  
 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide further, verified responses to Form Interrogatories, Nos.
12.1 and 15.1 within 30 days of this order. 

 
Plaintiff to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   April 2, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 