 Case Number:  23STCV24224    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
2, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE:  March
3, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Samuel Wineman
v. AMC Networks Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24224
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOTION
TO FILE DEFENDANTS’ MOTION 
TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION UNDER SEAL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
AMC Networks, Inc., AMC Network Entertainment LLC, and Shudder LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Samuel
Wineman 
 
 
I.          MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
A.   
Factual and Procedural
Background
 
Plaintiff
Samuel Wineman (“Wineman” or “Plaintiff”) works in the entertainment
industry.  From 2020 to 2022, Wineman was
employed by Stage 3 Productions (“Stage 3”) as Writer and Director of the
feature length documentary Queer for Fear.  The employment relationship between Wineman
and Stage 3 is evidenced by a “Writer/Director Agreement” (hereafter, the
“Agreement”).  The Agreement contains an
arbitration provision and permits Stage 3 to assign the Agreement to any
parent, subsidiary, or affiliated corporation.
 
Steakhaus
Productions, Inc. (“Steakhaus”) served as executive producer of the Queer
for Fear project.  While working on the project, Plaintiff regularly
interacted with Steakhaus managing agent Bryan Fuller (“Fuller”).  Wineman alleges that Fuller cultivated and
maintained a hostile work environment, which included harassment,
discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault and retaliation.  Specifically, Wineman alleges that in May and
June of 2021 Fuller sexually assaulted him  several times throughout the project by
pressing his penis against Plaintiff’s buttocks.  Plaintiff further alleges that Fuller
frequently discussed his penis, masturbation, adult/child dynamics, and
grooming; inappropriately replied to text messages with references to the
foregoing; harassed Wineman by leaving out personal lubricant and balled up
tissues on his work desk so that when Wineman visited, Wineman would know
Fuller had been masturbating, among numerous other allegations.  
 
In
June and July of 2021, Plaintiff reported Fuller’s harassment to Stacy Rallison
(“Rallison”)[1] and Nick Lazo (a Shudder, LLC employee), among
others.  Despite witnessing Fuller’s
harassment, Rallison enabled Fuller’s conduct and ignored Wineman’s concerns. 
In August 2021, after reporting Fuller’s abuse to Lazo, Rallison removed
Wineman from the Queer for Fear project.
 
Assignment
and Relevant Corporate Structure
 
Stage 3 is a
subsidiary of Digital Store, LLC (“Digital Store”).  On June 17, 2019, Stage 3 and Digital Store
entered into a Production Services Agreement regarding the production of the Queer
for Fear project.  The Production
Services Agreement has a termination and takeover clause which enables Digital
Store to terminate the Production Services Agreement with or without cause and
to take over and complete production and delivery of the project.  On September 26, 2021, Stage 3 and Digital
Store executed a Termination & Takeover Agreement.  In relevant part, Stage 3 assigned to Digital
Store all of Stage 3’s executory obligations due and owing in connection with
the project.  Shudder, LLC (“Shudder”) is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Digital Store. 
Shudder and Digital Store are subsidiaries of AMC Networks, Inc.  
On May 25, 2023, Wineman filed two complaints
against AMC Networks, Inc., and Shudder Network, c/o AMC Networks, Inc. with
the CRD.  On the same day, the CRD issued
Wineman right to sue letters.[2]

On October 4, 2023, Wineman, filed a complaint
against AMC Networks, Inc., AMC Network Entertainment, LLC, Shudder, Steakhaus,
and Fuller for: (1) Quid Pro Quo Sexual Harassment, (2) Retaliation in
Violation of Public Policy, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
(4) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, (5) Harassment and Hostile Work
Environment in Violation of FEHA; (6) Failure to Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination, and Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, (7) Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention, and (8) Vicarious Liability.
On December 12, 2023, AMC Networks, Inc., AMC
Network Entertainment, LLC, and Shudder (collectively, “AMC Defendants”) filed
an Answer to the Complaint.  The Answer
asserts arbitration as an affirmative defense.
            On March 6, 2024, AMC Defendants
filed this Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay or Dismiss Proceedings. 
            Plaintiff
filed an Opposition.  AMC Defendants replied.
B.     Legal Standard
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, the Court can compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate
their dispute. 
 
C.    
Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of (1) Public Law 117-90, Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (hereafter, the “Act”), (2) the California Court
of Appeal, Second District, Division 5, Kader v. Southern California Medical
Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 317 Cal.Rptr.3d 682, and (3) the California
Court of Appeal, Fourth District, Division 3, Murrey v. Superior Court
(2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223, 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 439.
 
            The unopposed request is
GRANTED.  (See Evid. Code, § 452, subds.
(a), (b).)
 
D.   
Discussion
 
            There is no dispute Plaintiff signed
an agreement with an arbitration provision covering Plaintiff’s claims.  Further, there is no dispute that New York
law and the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) governs.[3]  The issues to be decided are (1) whether the Act
invalidates the arbitration agreement, (2) whether AMC Defendants, non-signatories
to the Agreement, have standing to enforce the arbitration provision, and (3) whether
the arbitration provision is unconscionable. 
The court addresses each argument in turn.
            
1.      The Act
            The
parties disagree over whether the Act applies to Wineman’s claims.  To begin, this court must decide, rather than
the arbitrator whether the Act applies. “The applicability of this
chapter to an agreement to arbitrate and the validity and enforceability of an
agreement to which this chapter applies shall be determined by a court, rather
than an arbitrator, irrespective of whether the party resisting arbitration
challenges the arbitration agreement specifically or in conjunction with other
terms of the contract containing such agreement, and irrespective of whether
the agreement purports to delegate such determinations to an arbitrator.” (9
U.S.C. § 402(b).)
            The
effective date of the Act is March 3, 2022. 
As framed by Wineman in his opposition, “Mr. Wineman’s claim arose on
May 25, 2023, when he filed his complaints with the California Civil Rights
Department (“CRD”), naming AMC Networks, Inc., c/o Kristin Dolan, and Shudder
Network, c/o AMC Networks, Inc., as “Respondents” (CRD Matter Nos.
202305-20791125 and 202305-20791825). (Verified Complaint, Exhibit A-1 and
A-2.) These are well after the Mar. 3, 2022 enactment of the Act, and
therefore, Mr. Wineman’s claims are subject to the arbitration prohibitions set
forth in the Act.”  (Opp., p. 4.)  
Defendants counter that while Wineman filed
his CRD complaint after the passage of the Act, the dispute arose before the
passage of the Act.  Defendants have the
better argument.
            The Act
applies “to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of
the enactment of this Act.”  (Kader v.
Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 222 (Kader).)
 The Court in Kader addressed the question:  when does a dispute arise?  The Court of Appeal wrote:
We conclude the date that a dispute has arisen
for purposes of the Act is a fact-specific inquiry in each case, but a dispute
does not arise solely from the alleged sexual conduct. A dispute arises when
one party asserts a right, claim, or demand, and the other side expresses
disagreement or takes an adversarial posture. In other words, “[a] dispute
cannot arise until both sides have expressed their disagreement, either through
words or actions.”  Until there is a conflict
or disagreement, there is nothing to resolve in litigation.
Other courts have analyzed this language and
similarly concluded that a dispute requires some sort of disagreement or
‘adversarial posture.’ The term dispute is broader than simply filing an action
in court and includes many forums.
 
(Id. at pp.  222–223 (clean
up).) 
 
            In Kader,
the court determined the Act applied because the dispute arose after the
passage of the Act.  The Court of Appeal
observed that “[t]here was no evidence
that Kader asserted any right, claim, or demand prior to filing charges with
the DFEH in May 2022, and at oral argument, Kader's attorney conceded that
Kader never complained to anyone at the Center about Rasekhi's conduct.” (Kader,
supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 224.)   
            The same
is not true here.  Plaintiff “reported
MR. FULLER’s harassment and hostile work environment to Defendant STAGE 3,
namely Phil Noble Jr., Defendant STEAKHAUS, namely Ms. House, and Nick Lazo at
Defendants AMC ad SHUDDER in June and July 2021.”  (Complaint, ¶ 39.)  “DEFENDANTS, and the employees and agents,
including but not limited to DOES 1 though 50, and each of the[m], were aware
of the discriminatory, harassing, and retaliatory conduct because PLAINTIFF
repeatedly reported to supervisors and/or management. (Complaint, ¶ 105.)  Using Kader’s analysis, the dispute here
arose when Plaintiff reported the harassing conduct to Defendants and to his supervisors
and/or management and Defendants took no action, ignored Plaintiff’s concerns, failed
to investigate, and retaliated against him. 
    
            Because the
Wineman’s dispute arose before the passage of the Act, the Act does not apply. 
            2. 
Standing to Enforce the Arbitration Provision
            As an
initial matter, the court interprets the Agreement under the law of New York.  The arbitration clause provides: “This
Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of New York applicable to contracts entered into and fully performed
therein.”  (Agreement, § 8(b).)  Absent any argument from Plaintiff that the
contract was not entered into and not fully performed in New
York, the court applies New York law pursuant to the choice of law provision.
            There is
no dispute that AMC Defendants are neither signatories to nor assignees of the
Agreement.  Instead, AMC Defendants hitch
their wagon to the doctrine of equitable estoppel.              
Mozzachio v. Schanzer (Sup. Ct. 2020) 136 N.Y.S.3d 59
succinctly sets forth the applicable standard as follows:
“[O]n a motion to compel or stay
arbitration, a court must determine, in the first instance ... whether parties
have agreed to submit their disputes to arbitration and, if so, whether the
disputes generally come within the scope of their arbitration agreement. When
deciding whether the parties agreed to arbitrate a certain matter ... courts
generally ... should apply ordinary state-law principles that govern the
formation of contracts. Arbitration is a matter of contract, grounded in
agreement of the parties.  Inasmuch as an
arbitration clause is a contractual right, the general rule is that only a
party to an arbitration agreement is bound by or may enforce the agreement.
However, a nonsignatory to an
arbitration clause may, in certain situations, compel a signatory to the clause
to arbitrate the signatory’s claims against the nonsignatory despite the fact
that the signatory and nonsignatory lack an agreement to arbitrate.  A non-party to an arbitration agreement may
compel a party to arbitration if the relevant state contract law allows the
non-party to enforce the arbitration agreement.”
(Id. at p. 61
(cleaned up).)
            Estoppel
is one such theory under which a non-signatory to an agreement may nevertheless
be bound by an agreement to arbitrate. 
(See Merrill Lynch Int’l Fin., Inc. v. Donaldson (Sup. Ct. 2010)
895 N.Y.S.2d 698, 702-03.)  Compelling a
signatory to arbitrate their claims with a non-signatory is proper “where a careful
review of the relationship among the parties, the contracts they signed ...,
and the issues that had arisen among them discloses that the issues the
nonsignatory is seeking to resolve in arbitration are intertwined with the
agreement that the estopped party has signed.” 
(Id. at p. 703 (cleaned up).) 
Thus, a court must engage in a two-pronged analysis which “requires a
court to examine (1) whether the signatory’s claims ‘arise[ ] out of and
relate[ ] directly to’ the ‘subject matter’ of the underlying agreement and (2)
whether the non-signatory has a ‘close relationship’ to a signatory of the
agreement.”  (Trustees of N.Y. State
Nurses Assoc. Pension Plan v. Hakkak (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 3, 2023) No.
22-cv-5672, 2023 WL 4967071, at *5.)  
Here, AMC Defendants meet their
burden.  First, they correctly point out
that Wineman’s claims arise out of the Agreement.  The Agreement governs any claims or disputes
that arise in relation to Wineman’s employment as Writer and Director of the Queer
for Fear project.  The Complaint
alleges conduct that occurred while Wineman was engaged in that project.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 23, 34, 41.)  Plaintiff’s claims are directly related to
and arises from the subject-matter of the Agreement.  
Second, AMC Defendants offer the Termination
& Takeover Agreement to establish that Stage 3 assigned its rights and
obligations to the Queer to Fear project to Digital Store.  (Maheran Decl., Ex. 3.)  There is no dispute that Digital Store is a
subsidiary of AMC Networks, Inc.  AMC
Defendants also submit a Domestic Structure Chart which confirms Digital
Store’s relationship to AMC Networks, Inc., and which further establishes that Shudder,
LLC is a subsidiary of Digital Store and that AMC Network Entertainment, LLC is
a subsidiary of AMC Networks, Inc.  (Maheran
Decl., Ex. 5.)  Moreover, as alleged,
Wineman complained to Shudder and an individual at AMC Networks, Inc. about Fuller’s
conduct.  (Complaint, ¶ 39.)  Fuller was a managing agent of AMC Networks,
Inc.  (Complaint, ¶ 6.)  Indeed, AMC Defendants are Wineman’s alleged
employers.  (Complaint, ¶ 13.)  Wineman’s role as Writer and Director of the Queer
for Fear project is the only employment alleged.  AMC Defendants demonstrate a close
relationship between Digital Store (the assignee of the Agreement) and AMC
Defendants.  
In opposition, Wineman argues his
claims do not depend on the Agreement.[4]  He points out that neither Stage 3 nor its
assignee Digital Store are defendants in this action.  The Agreement itself is also not referenced
or attached to the Complaint.  However,
as discussed above, the allegations belie Wineman’s argument.  AMC Defendants are identified as his
employers.  The only employment described
in the Complaint is Wineman’s connection to the Queer for Fear project.  Fuller’s alleged conduct occurred while
working on the Queer for Fear project. 
Wineman does not offer any other argument or authority to avoid the
ineluctable conclusion that AMC Defendants have standing to invoke the
arbitration agreement. 
2.     
 Unconscionability 
Wineman next argues that the arbitration provision is
unconscionable.  Having found that
Wineman signed an agreement which contains an arbitration provision covering
his claims, and that AMC Defendants may assert the arbitration provision, the
court does not reach Wineman’s unconscionability challenge.  This is so because the arbitration provision
contains a clear and unmistakable delegation clause.  The
delegation issue is a “gateway” question. 
(Rent-A-Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson
(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 69 (Rent-A-Car).)   
“The [United States] Supreme Court has also held that
arbitration agreements must be enforced according to their terms, and that
parties can agree to arbitrate gateway questions of arbitrability.  Such “delegation clauses” are enforceable
where there is clear and unmistakable evidence that the parties intended to
arbitrate arbitrability issues.  When
deciding whether the parties agreed to arbitrate a certain matter (including
arbitrability), courts generally ... should apply ordinary state-law principles
that govern the formation of contracts. 
(Monarch Consulting, Inc. v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh,
PA (2016) 26 N.Y.3d 659, 675 (cleaned up).)
“Further, courts treat an arbitration clause as severable
from the contract in which it appears and enforce it according to its terms
unless the party resisting arbitration specifically challenges the
enforceability of the arbitration clause itself. This rule of severability
extends to delegation clauses, which are severable from larger arbitration provisions.
Thus, where a contract contains a valid delegation to the arbitrator of the
power to determine arbitrability, such a clause will be enforced absent a
specific challenge to the delegation clause by the party resisting
arbitration.”  (Id. at pp. 675-76
(cleaned up).)
Here, Wineman does not specifically challenge the
delegation clause.  Moreover, the clause clearly
and unmistakably delegates the authority to determine scope and applicability of
the Agreement to the arbitrator.[5]  The question whether the Agreement is
unconscionable is delegated to the arbitrator.
Conclusion
            The motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The action is stayed as to all parties
pending the conclusion of the arbitration.  The Court sets a
post-arbitration status conference for October 9, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. 
 
II.        MOTION
TO SEAL
 
            In
conjunction with the Motion to Compel Arbitration, the AMC Defendants submitted
the supporting Declaration of Tarek Maheran (“Maheran Decl.”) which attaches a
number of contractual agreements that govern the relationship between various
entities at issue in this action.  Accordingly,
the AMC Defendants now move for an order to file the following documents under
seal, pursuant to California Rules of Court 2.550 and 2.551 et seq.: 
 
1.     
Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of
Tarek Maheran (“Maheran Decl.”) filed in support of the AMC Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Arbitration.
2.     
Exhibit 2 to the Maheran Decl.
3.     
Exhibit 3 to the Maheran Decl.
 
            AMC Defendants publicly filed the Maheran Decl. with
redacted versions of the foregoing exhibits. 
The AMC Defendants have not publicly filed the unredacted information,
nor has the court read and considered the unredacted information.  Under these circumstances, a party may file
redacted information without the need for a sealing order. (See, e.g., rule 1.201; Concepcion v. Amscan Holdings, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1309, 1327 [explaining
that documents requested by the court could have been filed as “redacted copies
of the bills deleting any privileged information” as opposed to requiring an in
camera review]; see generally Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 9.416.1 [“Many, if not most,
motions to seal are unnecessary because the judge
does not need to review the confidential material to decide the underlying
motion. In such cases, simply file the redacted document in the public file and
explain the redaction in, e.g., the accompanying memorandum of points and
authorities”].) In these situations the redacted information is never presented
to the court for its consideration or to the public and is not subject to
“unsealing.”
Given that the redacted information is subject to a
protective order in this matter, neither party cites to or relies upon the
redacted information, nor does the court cite to or rely on the redacted
information in its ruling on the Motion to Compel Arbitration, AMC Defendants’
Motion to Seal is MOOT.  Additionally,
because AMC Defendants have already filed the redacted exhibits, no further
action is necessary. 
 
Dated:   April 2, 2024                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            


