  Case Number:  21PSCV01086    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  E Hearing Date:  12/15/2023 – 11:00am
Case No: 21PSCV01086                                                           
Trial Date: 04/22/2024
Case Name: ERIC CHEN, a natural person and CINDY CHOU, a
natural person v. JAMES WU, a natural person; USA LIFE MANAGEMENT CORPORATION,
a California corporation; CHIHUANG WU, a natural person; PIHUI WU, a natural
person; and DOES 1-100
 
[TENTATIVE RULING - MOTION
TO COMPEL NON-PARTY TO PRODUCE DOCUMENTS]
 
Moving Party:  Plaintiffs (Movant), Eric Chen and Cindy Chou 
Responding Party: Non-Party,
All Good Escrow, Inc.
Moving Papers:
Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Proposed Order; Proof of Service
Opposition Papers:
Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Uncertain – At the hearing, Movant is to address the issues
listed below with respect to service.
In addition to
Movant’s allegation that this motion was served on Tao Jiang via Certified Mail
and All Good Escrow via Personal Service, this motion was also allegedly served
via email on Defendants’ counsel.
Movant alleges service
via email to Defendants’ counsel at the following email addresses:
cchiao@chiaowu.com; swu@chiaowu.com; abrenot@chiaowu.com; and
lmink@chiaowu.com. 
However, on eCourt, there
appears to be two email addresses listed for Defendants’ counsel. One email
address is listed as lyle@lylemink.com. This email address was not served. The
other email address listed for Defendants’ counsel is abrenot@chiaowu.com. This
email address appears to have been served. 
At the hearing, the
parties are to address what email address is the proper service address for
Defendants’ counsel and if that address was served. 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs, Eric Chen
and Cindy Chou move this Court for an order to compel All Good Escrow, Inc.
(“Escrow Company”) to produce the documents specified in the Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records served on July 28, 2023 (“the
Subpoena”).
Plaintiffs
move the Court to impose monetary sanctions against the Escrow Company and its
counsel, Law Office of Maurice K. Wong and Maurice Wong, Esq., in the amount of
$3,525.00, jointly and severally, for their misuse of the discovery process and
for compelling Plaintiffs to make this Motion. Code of Civil Procedure sections
2023.040, 2023.030, 2025.480 (j) and 2023.010 (d), (e), and (h).
This
Motion is brought pursuant to the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2017.010, 2025.480 paragraphs (a) and (b), 2023.040, 2023.030,
2025.480 (j) and 2023.010 (d), (e), and (h), and is based on this Notice of
Motion, the attached supporting Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
Declaration of Pfrancez C. Quijano, Esq., the Separate Statement, and exhibits
thereto, the records, and files in this action and such evidence and argument
that may be presented at the hearing of this matter.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs filed the
instant action on 12/30/2021. The Complaint stems from allegations by the
Plaintiffs that Defendants backed out of a sale for property. The Complaint
alleges four causes of action for – (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Specific
Performance, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duties, and (4) Fraud.
 
As to the instant
motion, Movant is arguing that non-party, All Good Escrow withheld the
production of documents responsive to a deposition subpoena for production of
business records.
 
ANALYSIS
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiffs served the non-party Escrow Company
with a subpoena titled “Deposition Subpoena For Production of Business
Records.” (Quijano Decl. ¶6, Ex. 5.) A consumer, Tao Jiang, checked “I object
to the production of all of my records specified in the subpoena,” on the form
document titled “Notice to Consumer or Employee,” but Jiang did not specify the
grounds for which their objection was based on the form document.
Further, the proof of service for the
objection does not appear to be filled out. However, in the Quijano
declaration, Quijano states, “Our office received Jiang’s objection. A true and
correct copy of the Notice to Consumer or Employee with Objection by Non-Party
to Production of Records is attached as Exhibit 6.” (Quijano Decl. ¶7.)
The Subpoena that was served on the Escrow
Company had the following five requests:
1.
YOUR entire file RELATING to Escrow No. 177774-BZ RELATED to the PROPERTY
between October 2021 to July 2022, which includes but is not limited to: the
fully executed DOCUMENT with Authentisign ID:
CB208FF2-A912-4FOF-A4CB-9FE5F0559785; all agreements between the parties of the
escrow; all escrow instructions and amendments thereto; all COMMUNICATIONS with
any of the parties to the Escrow and/or their agents, which includes YOU and
JIANG and/or YOU and DEFENDANTS; all notes pertaining to the escrow; all DOCUMENTS
evidencing the performance of each party to the escrow, all assignments of any
interest of any party to the escrow in connection with the escrow; all escrow
cancellation instruction; copies of the file jacket pertaining to the escrow;
all settlement statement; and all checklists YOU maintained in connection with
the escrow. 
 
2.
YOUR entire file in connection with any and all ESCROW with JIANG RELATED to
the PROPERTY between October 2021 to July 2022, which includes but is not
limited to: the fully executed DOCUMENT with Authentisign ID:
CB208FF2-A912-4FOF-A4CB9FE5F0559785; all agreements between the parties of the
escrow; all escrow instructions and amendments thereto; all COMMUNICATIONS with
any of the parties to the Escrow and/or their agents, which includes YOU and
JIANG and/or YOU and DEFENDANTS; all notes pertaining to the escrow; all
DOCUMENTS evidencing the performance of each party to the escrow, all
assignments of any interest of any party to the escrow in connection with the escrow;
all escrow cancellation instruction; copies of the file jacket pertaining to
the escrow; all settlement statement; and all checklists YOU maintained in
connection with the escrow. 
 
3.
YOUR entire file in connection with any and all ESCROW with MA AND CHAOS
RELATED to the PROPERTY between October 2021 to July 2022, which includes but
is not limited to: the fully executed DOCUMENT with DocuSign Envelope ID:
F28AD7F9-7DDF4376-8281-9960BC48D906; all agreements between the parties of the
escrow; all escrow instructions and amendments thereto; all COMMUNICATIONS with
any of the parties to the escrow and/or their agents, which includes YOU and MA
AND CHAOS and/or YOU and DEFENDANTS; all notes pertaining to the escrow; all
DOCUMENTS evidencing the performance of each party to the escrow, all
assignments of any interest of any party to the escrow in connection with the
escrow; all escrow cancellation instruction; copies of the file jacket pertaining
to the escrow; all settlement statement; and all checklists YOU maintained in
connection with the escrow. 
4.
YOUR entire file in connection with any and all ESCROWS to the PROPERTY between
October 2021 to July 2022, which includes but is not limited to: all agreements
between the parties of the escrow; all escrow instructions and amendments
thereto; all COMMUNICATIONS with any of the parties to the escrow and/or their
agents; all notes pertaining to the escrow; all DOCUMENTS evidencing the
performance of each party to the escrow, all assignments of any interest of any
party to the escrow in connection with the escrow; all escrow cancellation
instruction; copies of the file jacket pertaining to the escrow; all settlement
statement; and all checklists YOU maintained in connection with the escrow. 
 
5. Any
and all DOCUMENTS RELATED to any and all ESCROWS RELATING to the PROPERTY
between October 2021 to July 2022.
 
(Quijano
Decl. ¶6, Ex. 5.)
 
After
Jiang, the consumer, objected to the Subpoena, the Escrow Company responded to
each of the five requests as follows:
 
As you
were aware of, one of the parties in the escrow transaction timely served
written objection to your subpoena request for documents on All Good Escrow,
Inc. You were aware of such written objection. Thereafter, that party served a
limited consent, limited the objection to production of only certain documents,
acceptable to that party, but otherwise objected to all other documents
requested. You were also aware of such limited withdrawal and consent. My
understanding is that your received service or notice of such written limited
consent. Thereafter, the escrow company responded and properly produced
documents according to such limited written consent. 
 
The
escrow company acted properly, in response to what is stated on the Notice to
Consumer form, served with the subpoena. The escrow company, as a holder of
possible consumer records, does not have the authority as far as i know, to
decide or overrule whether any possible objection is valid or not valid. The
responsibility for resolving the objections lies with the subpoenaing party,
not the escrow co., as far as i am aware of.
 
(Movant
Sep. Stmt p. 2-11.)
 
As to all five requests,
Movant asserted the same argument to compel production, which was as follows:
 
“In order to establish good
cause, the moving party need only show: (1) relevance to the subject matter;
and (2) specific facts justifying discovery. Glenfeld Develop. Corp. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 113, 1117; see also Kirkland v. Superior Court
(2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98. “What will constitute good cause will of course
depend upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case.” Flora Crane
Serv., Inc. v Superior Court (1965) 234 CA2d 767, 792. There is no obvious
explanation as to why Escrow was opened on December 8, 2021, when Tao Jiang
(“Jiang”) (the ultimate purchaser of the Property after defendants Chihuang Wu
and Pihui Wu (the “Sellers”) breached their agreement with Plaintiffs) did not
enter into an agreement with the Sellers until two (2) weeks thereafter. Here
therefore, the requested documents are relevant to four (4) key issues in this
matter. In a broad sense, the withheld documents will almost certainly show how
and why defendant James Wu (“James”) opened escrow on or about December 8, 2021
which is about the same time that James indicated the Plaintiffs and Sellers
had an agreement relating to the sale of the Property with only a few matters
to address (and not two (2) weeks later when Sellers and Jiang entered into an
agreement). That withheld evidence, therefore, may be relevant and material to
the following issues: 
 
(1) Whether a contract was
formed between Plaintiffs and Sellers; 
(2) Whether the Sellers and
James intended the Plaintiffs to rely on James’ representations; (3) Whether
James breached his fiduciary duties to the Plaintiffs by making
misrepresentations to them; and 
(4) The credibility of James,
Sellers and the Escrow Company. 
 
Also, Jiang did not had
standing to object to the production of any documents before Decemver 22, 2021
with the Escrow Company because that was before he signed the another purchase
agreement with the Sellers. Plaintiffs are compelled to file this Motion and
incurred attorneys’ fees and cost in the total amount of $3,525.00 against the
Escrow Company and its counsel, Law Office of Maurice K. Wong and Maurice Wong,
Esq.”
 
(Movant Sept. Stmt. p. 3-12.)
CCP §1985.3
In Opposition, Escrow Company argues that the instant motion is
untimely under CCP § 1985.3(g).
 
The Court finds Opposition’s
argument availing for the reasons explained below.
 
Although Movant argues that
CCP §2025.480 is the applicable statute that governs in the instant scenario,
the Court is not convinced by Movant.
 
First, Movant makes no attempt
to cite any legal support that CCP § 2025.480 is applicable in the instant
scenario rather than CCP § 1985.3. Second, Movant makes no explanation as to
why it moved under § 2025.480 instead of § 1985.3.
 
From the Court’s reading of
both statutes, it appears as if §§ 1985.3/1987.1 is more applicable than § 2025.480.

 
As a preliminary matter, § 1985.3(a)(1)
defines “personal records” as follows: “…means the original, any copy of books,
documents, other writings, or electronically stored information pertaining
to a consumer and which are maintained by any “witness” which is
a physician, dentist, ophthalmologist, optometrist, chiropractor,
physical therapist, acupuncturist, podiatrist, veterinarian, veterinary
hospital, veterinary clinic, pharmacist, pharmacy, hospital, medical center,
clinic, radiology or MRI center, clinical or diagnostic laboratory, state or
national bank, state or federal association (as defined in Section 5102 of the
Financial Code), state or federal credit union, trust company, anyone
authorized by this state to make or arrange loans that are secured by real
property, security brokerage firm, insurance company, title insurance company,
underwritten title company, escrow agent licensed pursuant to Division 6
(commencing with Section 17000) of the Financial Code or exempt from licensure
pursuant to Section 17006 of the Financial Code, attorney, accountant,
institution of the Farm Credit System, as specified in Section 2002 of Title 12
of the United States Code, or telephone corporation which is a public utility,
as defined in Section 216 of the Public Utilities Code, or psychotherapist, as
defined in Section 1010 of the Evidence Code, or a private or public preschool,
elementary school, secondary school, or postsecondary school as described in
Section 76244 of the Education Code.” (CCP §1985.3(a)(1), emph. added.)
 
“Consumer” is defined as “…means
any individual, partnership of five or fewer persons, association, or trust
which has transacted business with, or has used the services of, the witness or
for whom the witness has acted as agent or fiduciary.” (CCP §1985.3(a)(2).)
 
Therefore, although Movant
titled this as a deposition subpoena for production of business records, Movant
appears to be seeking the personal records of a consumer that are maintained by
the Escrow Company. This appears to be the case as indicated by Movant’s own
Notices to Consumer that it served to several non-parties, including Tao Jiang,
who served the objection that led to the filing of this motion.
 
Additionally, as indicated in
Movant’s own notices to consumer, the title of the form documents sent to the
consumers state, “Notice to Consumer or Employee and Objection (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1985.3, 1985.6).” Therefore, this citation to § 1985.3 on Movant’s
own notice to the consumer further leads the Court to believe that this motion
was supposed to be brought under § 1985.3.
 
Additionally, from the text of
§ 1985.3, and specifically § 1985.3(g), it appears to this Court that § 1985.3
addresses a range of issues in the context of subpoenas involving
consumers/non-parties that § 2025.480 does not address at all--specifically,
the protections a consumer has when a witness is served a subpoena. 
 
For reference, the Court quotes
§ 1985.3(g) below:
 
Any consumer whose personal
records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil
action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for
production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena
duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the
witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production. The
failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the
motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the
deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for
improper release of records.
 
Any other consumer or nonparty
whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum may, prior to the
date of production, serve on the subpoenaing party, the witness, and the
deposition officer, a written objection that cites the specific grounds on
which production of the personal records should be prohibited.
 
No witness or deposition
officer shall be required to produce personal records after
receipt of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer, or
after receipt of a written objection from a nonparty consumer, except upon
order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the
parties, witnesses, and consumers affected.
 
The party requesting a
consumer’s personal records may bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to enforce
the subpoena within 20 days of service of the written objection. The
motion shall be accompanied by a declaration showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at informal resolution of the dispute between the party
requesting the personal records and the consumer or the consumer’s attorney.”
 
(CCP §1985.3(g), emph added.)
 
The Opposition points out that
it did not turn over the requested records because it was acting in good faith
attempting to comply with the code because Tao Jiang exercised his rights per
the code to object as a consumer.
 
Thus, Movant had 20 days
within service of the written objection to bring this motion, and Movant did
not do so. While it is unclear when Jiang served his objection, Movant still
did not bring this motion within 20 days of service of the written objection,
as explained below by this Court.
 
In Movant’s counsel’s
declaration, Quijano, Quijano states that he received the Jiang objection.
(Quijano Decl. ¶7.) Although the declaration does not state when the objection
was received, Quijano states, “Our office received Jiang’s withdrawal of his
objection. A true and correct copy of the letter signed on August 14, 2023 is
attached as Exhibit 8.” (Quijano Decl. ¶9.) Therefore, Quijano acknowledges
receiving the objection, Quijano just doesn’t state when the objection was
received.
 
However, if Movant is saying
it received Jiang’s withdrawal of objection on August 14, 2023, then presumably
the actual objection was received at the very latest, on August, 14, 2023 [this
would be the case if Jiang objected then withdrew his objection on the same
day]. However, this motion was not filed and served until 10/16/2023, which is
not within 20 days of the objection. 
 
To the extent that Movant
argues that Jiang withdrew his initial objection, Movant’s evidence does not
support this statement in the slightest. Movant sights to Exhibit 8 as the
withdrawal of Jiang’s objection. Movant even states that Jiang indicated that
he did not speak English. (Quijano Decl. ¶8.)
 
The letter that Movant argues
is a withdrawal of the objection simply states, “I have received your letter ,
but I don't have any information can provide to you ,because I don't keep those
info after I moved to 18932 Amberly PI Rowland Heights CA 91748, I believed
that Summit Mortgage & Realty's has all my info associated this property ,
so please contact Summit Mortgage & Realty to request all the information
as you need , they will release to you after they received your request. Thanks.”
(Ex. 8.)
 
The Court fails to see how
that is a withdrawal of Jiang’s objection.
 
Further, both parties refer to
an “August Letter.” In this August Letter, that was allegedly only sent to All
Good Escrow, Jiang served a limited consent in part limiting the production to
a list of specified documents acceptable to Jiang. While the Reply argues that
this August Letter is not a written objection under 1985.3, the Court notes
that this is besides the point. The relevant objection is the initial objection
Jiang sent that Movant admits it received in both moving and reply papers. “Jiang
already properly served an objection and thus clearly understood how the
objection process works. (Of course, that objection was later withdrawn). If he
wanted to serve an objection, he could have done so pursuant to the Code and
the clearly printed instructions on the Notice to Consumer.” (Reply p. 3.)
 
Therefore, since Jiang properly
served an objection, as admitted by Movant, Opposition here explains why it is
not producing documents – because its consumer (Jiang) objected. Although Reply
says that the objection was withdrawn, the Court fails to see how the objection
was withdrawn.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Subject to a discussion of service issues at the hearing, Plaintiffs’
motion is DENIED as untimely under § 1985.3(g). Section 1985.3(g) explains how
Movant should have brought this motion under § 1987.1 to enforce the subpoena
within 20 days of service of the written objection. Movant served this motion
on 10/16/2023, but the objection was served at the latest, by August 14, 2023;
therefore, this motion is not timely.
 
Movant’s request for sanctions under § 2025.480(j)
is denied.
 
 
 