  Case Number:  21TRCV00788    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ARMANDO
  SANTIAGO, 


 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21TRCV00788




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COMMAND
  SECURITY SYSTEMS, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          February 2,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Armando Santiago
Responding
Party:                  Defendant United Building Company
Motion
to Compel Further Response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED in part.  Defendant UBC is ordered to respond further
in compliance with CCP §2031.220, et seq. and to produce responsive documents
in response to Nos. 4, and 8, within 20 days. 
The parties should be prepared to argue requests 5, 6 and 7.  Defendant UBC is ordered to serve a privilege
log within 20 days.
            The motion is DENIED as to Nos. 1,
2, 3, and 9.
BACKGROUND
            On October 25, 2021, plaintiff
Armando Santiago filed a complaint against Command Security Systems, Inc.,
Arjun Singh Gill, Balbir Singh Gill, and Gautam Kumar for Labor Code
violations, violation of Bus. and Prof. Code, and PAGA.  Plaintiff alleges that he worked for
defendants from June 10, 2010 through March 31, 2021, as a Trailer Guard and
sometimes as an Armed Guard.
            On November 12, 2021, plaintiff
filed amendments to the complaint designating Deterrence Security System,
Amarjeet Singh Gill, and Parminder K. Gill as Does 1, 2, and 3.
            On March 7, 2023, plaintiff filed
amendments adding Steven Inouye, United Building Company, and David Rivera as
defendants.
            On July 26, 2023, defendants United
Building Company and David Rivera filed a cross-complaint against LA’s Best
Security, Inc, Deterrence Security System, and Arjun Singh Gill.
            On November 14, 2023, the court
granted United Building Company’s motion to compel further responses to request
for production of documents against plaintiff.
            On December 18, 2023, plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal as to defendant David Rivera.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §
1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Armando Santiago requests
that the court order defendant United Building Company (“UBC”) to provide
further responses and documents to plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-9.
            Plaintiff explains that plaintiff
served Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on UBC on October 18,
2023.  Responses were due by November 21,
2023.  UBC served responses on November
21, 2023.  On December 1, 2023, plaintiff’s
counsel sent a meet and confer letter as to the deficiencies to defense counsel
and granting an extension to provide documents and a privilege log to December
8, 2023.  On December 5, 2023,
plaintiff’s counsel sent another meet and confer providing an extension to
December 12.  As defendant had not
responded, on December 13, plaintiff gave another extension to December
15.  As of filing date of the motions,
plaintiff’s counsel had not received documents or a privilege log.
            Plaintiff agues that he has good
cause because plaintiff allege that UBC is one of plaintiff’s joint employers
and that such documents are likely to be probative as to the existence and
nature of the triangular relationship between plaintiff, UBC, and its
co-defendants; relate to plaintiff’s substantive allegation such as the failure
to pay overtime and inaccurate itemization of wages, for example; UBC’s roles,
extent of involvement and exercise of control over plaintiff’s wages and
working conditions, compliance with labor laws.
 
            The court rules as follows:
            As to each request, defendant
responded that the request is unduly burdensome, vague and ambiguous,
confidential financial information, proprietary or trade secret information,
irrelevant, attorney-client privilege or accountant-client privilege, and violates
third party right to privacy.  Defendant
produced no documents.
            No. 1:  all documents concerning UBC’s acquisition of
another company or corporation through purchase, reorganization, or merger of
another corporation.
            The court finds that defendant’s
objections have merit.  The request is
vague as no timeframe is specified. 
Further, it would be burdensome to produce “all documents” and plaintiff
has not shown good cause.  Implicit in
the request is that UBC has acquired a company(s), but plaintiff has not shown
that to be the case.  
            The motion is thus DENIED.
 
            No. 2:  all documents including worker’s compensation
claims related to all defendant’s Labor Code violations at the local, state,
and/or federal level.
            The court finds that defendant’s
objections have merit.  This request is
overbroad and vague and ambiguous.  There
is no time frame specified.  Such
disclosure would violate third persons’ right to privacy.  It is unclear as to what plaintiff means by
“related” to defendant’s Labor Code violation as there could be claims that are
not related to any Labor Code violations. 

            The motion is thus DENIED.
 
            No. 3:  all documents that UBC has provided in the
past to its business partners in educating, communicating, or otherwise
disseminating such information that establish or promote employee protection
(provided to employees, contractors, subcontractors, or unions of the work
related/labor policies and the precautions necessary to guard against wage
theft including unpaid overtimes, rest and meal).
            The court finds that defendant’s
objections have merit.  The request is
vague and overly broad as to time frame, “business partners,” and “promote
employee protection.” 
            The motion is DENIED.
 
            No. 4:  all insurance policy agreements and
documentation that provide, or might provide, coverage on behalf of defendant,
any predecessor or any related company for the injuries/claims alleged in
plaintiff’s complaint.
            The court finds that defendant’s
objections lack merit.  Plaintiff has
shown good cause.
            The motion is GRANTED.
 
            No. 5: all other existing
insurance agreement and/or documentation providing for the benefit of
defendant, any predecessor or any related company, complete or partial
indemnification for all expenses incurred with respect to all of these cases,
including judgments, settlements, costs, expert fees, and/or attorney’s fees.
            The parties should present argument
on this request.
 
            No. 6:  all photographs, videotapes, recordings where
plaintiff has been photographed, videotaped, or recorded in some other manner
during his work at defendant’s premises, specifically at construction sites
named “The Pointe” located at 7600 Vermont (by 76th W. Los Angeles
St.).
The parties should present argument
on this request.
 
            No. 7:  any statements, opinions, communications via
texts or otherwise of those who witnessed plaintiff work at defendant’s sites
and at “The Pointe on Vermont”, specifically from David Rivera, Clinton, and
Fabian.
            The parties should present argument
on this request.
 
            No. 8:  all Daily Activity Report sheets turned in
daily at one of defendant’s construction sites named “The Pointe” by plaintiff
while he worked at The Pointe.
            Defendant’s objections lack
merit.  Plaintiff has shown good cause.
            The motion is GRANTED.
 
            No. 9:  entire transcript of the oral deposition of
plaintiff held by defendant on October 11, 2023.
            The court finds that none of defendant’s
objections have merit or are applicable. 
Plaintiff has not shown good cause though as plaintiff can obtain from
the reporter.
            The motion is DENIED.
            Sanctions
            The court denies plaintiff’s request
for sanctions in the amount of $4115 ($350/hr. x 9 hrs., filing fee) and
defendant’s request for sanctions as both parties acted with substantial
justification.  The court also denies
plaintiff’s request for an additional sanction in the amount of $1000 as there
is no authority for such.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED in part.  Defendant UBC is ordered to respond further
in compliance with CCP §2031.220, et seq. and to produce responsive documents
in response to Nos. 4 and 8, within 20 days. 
Defendant UBC is ordered to serve a privilege log within 20 days.
            The motion is DENIED as to Nos. 1,
2, 3, and 9.
            The parties shall argue Nos. 5, 6,
and 7.

            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.
 

Motion
to Dismiss and for Sanctions
Hearing Date:                          February
2, 2024
Moving Parties:                      Defendants United Building Company
and David Rivera
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Armando Santiago
            The
court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The
motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On October 25, 2021, plaintiff Armando Santiago
filed a complaint against Command Security Systems, Inc., Arjun Singh Gill,
Balbir Singh Gill, and Gautam Kumar for Labor Code violations, violation of
Bus. and Prof. Code, and PAGA.  Plaintiff
alleges that he worked for defendants from June 10, 2010 through March 31,
2021, as a Trailer Guard and sometimes as an Armed Guard.
            On
November 12, 2021, plaintiff filed amendments to the complaint designating
Deterrence Security System, Amarjeet Singh Gill, and Parminder K. Gill as Does
1, 2, and 3.
            On
March 7, 2023, plaintiff filed amendments adding Steven Inouye, United Building
Company, and David Rivera as defendants.
            On
July 26, 2023, defendants United Building Company and David Rivera filed a
cross-complaint against LA’s Best Security, Inc, Deterrence Security System,
and Arjun Singh Gill.
            On
December 18, 2023, plaintiff filed a request for dismissal as to defendant
David Rivera.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §128.7(b) states:  “By presenting to the court, whether by
signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is
certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information, and belief,
formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met: 
            (1)
It is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass
or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation. 
            (2)
The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by
existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law. 
(3) The allegations and other factual contentions
have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery. . . .” 
If the court finds that a pleading violates any of
these provisions, it may impose appropriate monetary and/or non-monetary
sanctions against the attorneys, law firm, or parties responsible (except that
a represented party may not be sanctioned for a violation of 128.7(b)(2)). CCP
§128.7(c)). 
            CCP
§128.7 should be utilized only in “the rare and exceptional case where the
action is clearly frivolous, legally unreasonable or without legal foundation,
or brought for an improper purpose.”  Operating
Engineers Pension Trust v. A-C Co. (9th Cir. 1988) 859 F.2d 1336, 1344; see
Hart v. Avetoom (2002) 95 Cal. App. 4th 410, 413. 
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant
to CCP §128.7, defendants United Building Company and David Rivera request an
order dismissing the action against them and imposing sanctions against
plaintiff and his counsel of record.
            The
court notes that the motion is moot as to David Rivera as he was dismissed on
December 18, 2023.
            Defendants
argue that plaintiff’s wage and hours claims against defendants UBC and David
Rivera are factually and legally frivolous and any reasonable inquiry should
have made well before they were named as defendants.  Defendants assert that at plaintiff’s
deposition, he was not aware that the UBC defendants had been added to the
lawsuit.  He also testified that he was
never subject to UBC’s supervision, that he never reported to any UBC
employees, and that his only interactions with David Rivera were social
pleasantries at the worksite.  Defendants
contend that UBC “simply hired LA’s Best to provide security for an apartment
building under construction.”  UBC has no
common ownership with any of the entities previously named as defendants.  Rivera is a project manager employed by UBC;
he is not an owner of UBC or any other defendant.  Further, defendants argue, the undisputed
facts rule out joint or special employer liability against the UBC defendants.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that his claims against UBC are not frivolous and
are warranted under existing law.  He
asserts that UBC is properly named a defendant under joint employment liability
theory based on UBC’s contract with LA Best and that UBC revised its contract
in February 2020 as to wages, hours, and working conditions of security
conditions at the construction site “The Pointe” where plaintiff worked.  Plaintiff contends that UBC required that an
armed guard work a minimum of 246 hours biweekly and for plaintiff to turn in
his Daily Activity Reports to UBC every day using UBC’s forms and that UBC is
not to be charged for overtime; and that UBC remains solely responsible for the
scope and adequacy of the security programs. 
Plaintiff also cites to Labor Code §2810, which states in part that an
entity shall not enter into a contact or agreement for labor services with a construction
or security guard contractor where the entity knows or should know that the
contract or agreement does not include funds sufficient to allow the contractor
to comply with all applicable labor laws. 
Plaintiff asserts that under the “revised contract” UBC and LA Best
retained 2/3 of plaintiff’s earned wages as savings and profits per pay period.
            The
court does not find that the complaint against UBC falls under any of the
prongs under CCP §128.7(1)-(3).  Although
plaintiff’s interrogatory responses do not appear to be entirely consistent
with plaintiff’s deposition testimony, whether UBC is a “joint employer” is a
factual and legal issue and discovery is ongoing.  Plaintiff’s deposition testimony does not necessarily
mean that plaintiff’s position that UBC is a joint employer cannot be supported
by existing law or have evidentiary support. 
As stated above, CCP §128.7 should be used only in “rare and exceptional
cases.”  Sanctions are not warranted.
            The
motion is thus DENIED.
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.