 Case Number:  23TRCV01843    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
THEODORE
  HALKIAS, et al., 


 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01843




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
RORY
  KUHN, et al.,


 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         February 2, 2024                     
Moving
Party:                         Defendants Rory Kuhn and Je’Nai Kuhn
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs
Theodore Halkias and Jill Halkias
Motion for Leave to
File Cross-Complaint and to Add Cross-Complainants
            The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Defendants are ordered to file the
cross-complaint within five days.
BACKGROUND
On June 8, 2023, plaintiffs
Theodore Halkias and Jill Halkias filed an unlawful detainer complaint against
Rory Kuhn and Je’Nai Kuhn based on a three-day notice to pay rent or quit,
based on monthly rent of $10,000, for property located at 1605 Magnolia Avenue,
Manhattan Beach.
On July 17, 2023, on the date set
for trial, the trial was continued to September 17, 2024, as possession was no
longer at issue as defendants had given up possession.  Therefore the case became a regular civil
action and the parties are entitled to plead all claims that they may have
against one another.  C.C.P. § 1952.3.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §426.30(a) provides, “if a
party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not
thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause
of action not pleaded.” 
CCP §426.50 states that, “A party
who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave. . . to file a cross-complaint, to
assert such cause at any time during the course of the action.  The court, after notice to the adverse party,
shall grant, upon terms as may be just to the parties, leave . . . to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.  This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”
CCP §428.10 states that, “A party
against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: . . . (b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be
liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if
the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property
or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”
CCP § 428.50 states, “(a) A party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) 
Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has
set a date for trial.
(c) 
A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except
one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the interest of
justice at any time during the course of the action.”
“If the proposed cross-complaint is
permissive . . ., leave of court may be granted ‘in the interest of justice’ at
any time during the course of the action (CCP §428.50(c)).  On the other hand, if the proposed cross-complaint
is compulsory . . ., leave must be
granted so long as defendant is acting in good faith (CCP §426.50 . . .).”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶6:555.
“The declarations of defendant’s
counsel should show that it would be ‘in the interest of justice’ to grant
leave to file; and some reasonable excuse why the cross-complaint was not filed
earlier (mistake, inadvertence, excusable neglect . . . or most commonly,
recent discovery of new facts).”  Id.,
¶6:562.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Rory Kuhn and Je’nai Kuhn request leave to file a cross-complaint against
plaintiffs and to add defendants’ children as cross-complainants for (1) breach
of implied warranty of habitability, (2) violation of Health & Safety Code §17920.3,
(3) negligence/premises liability/negligence per se, (4) nuisance, (5) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (6) breach of covenant of
quiet possession, and (7) breach of contract to allege toxic mold inside the
furnace and blowing throughout the residence.
Defendants
argue that the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction or
series of transactions or occurrences as the complaint but not pleaded
previously, and that allowing such filing is in the interest of justice and
will promote the efficient resolution of all claims between the parties.  Defendants assert that the complaint alleges
that defendants failed to pay rent in the amount of $60,000 and defendants
contend that rent was not due based on the above proposed causes of
action.  Defendants explain that the
motion was filed as soon as “reasonably practical” after defendants retained
counsel.  Also, defendants assert, as the
case was initially filed as an unlawful detainer, defendants were not permitted
to file a cross-complaint.
In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that defendants vacated the property on June 30,
2023 but fail to explain the delay in seeking leave to file a
cross-complaint.  Plaintiffs also contend
that defendants purportedly retained counsel before February 2023 (as to the
first unlawful detainer complaint).
The court rules as follows:  The court finds that the proposed
cross-complaint arises out of the same lease agreement and property that is at
issue in the complaint.  The proposed
cross-complaint is “compulsory” as it is against plaintiffs.  As such, “[f]actors such as oversight,
inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny
the motion, unless accompanied by bad faith.” 
Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 94, 99.  “Substantial evidence of bad faith will
obviously negate good faith, the latter being the sine qua non to the granting
of a section 426.50 motion.  It is
therefore necessary to examine the amorphous concept of bad faith.  ‘Bad faith’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of
“good faith,” generally implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or
a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some
duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . . ,
but by some interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or
negligence, but rather  . . . the
conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; . .
. it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design
or ill will.’”  Id. at 100
(citation omitted).  
There is no evidence that
defendants acted in bad faith, and plaintiffs do not argue such.  Further, cross-complaints are not allowed in
unlawful detainer actions.  As this case
is now a civil case, cross-complaints are permitted.  The court finds that it would be in the
interest of justice to allow defendants to file a cross-complaint.
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.
            Defendants
are ordered to file their cross-complaint within five days.
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.