  Case Number:  22TRCV00057    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
AMR
  MOHAMED HENIGAL, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00057




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GENERAL
  MOTORS LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 26,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant General Motors LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Amr Mohamed Henigal and Amr Henigal LLC
Motion
for Summary Judgment or, Alternatively, for Summary Adjudication
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.  The motion for summary
adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on the motion for summary judgment.
BACKGROUND
On January 26, 2022, plaintiffs Amr
Mohamed Henigal and Amr Henigal LLC filed a complaint against General Motors
LLC for violations of statutory obligations under Song Beverly Act and Magnuson
Moss Act. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  Id.  “’An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.’”  Lyons
v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 1001, 1014
(citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
Defendant General Motors LLC requests
that the court enter summary judgment in its favor and against plaintiffs
pursuant to CCP §437c as to each of the causes of action on the ground that
there is no triable issue of material fact and defendant is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.
The complaint alleges that on June
21, 2021, plaintiffs purchased a 2020 Cadillac Escalade from Penske Chevrolet
of Cerritos.  The vehicle was
manufactured and/or distributed and warranted by GM.  Complaint, ¶4.  In connection with the transaction, GM issued
to plaintiffs express warranties within the meaning of Civil Code §1791.2.  Id., ¶7. 
Subsequent to plaintiffs’ purchase, the vehicle exhibited numerous
defects and nonconformities covered by the warranties, which substantially
impair the use, value, and safety of the motor vehicle.  Plaintiffs visited the servicing GM
dealership on July 14, 2021 (47,916 miles), October 25, 2021 (48,273 miles),
and December 16, 2021 (48,715 miles). 
Id., ¶8.  GM’s authorized repair
facilities failed to properly inspect the vehicle and failed to properly
diagnose the severe issues plaguing the vehicle.  GM is well aware of the several chronic
issues with the engine, transmission, power steering, hitch, park assist,
mirrors, and windows that have plagued the vehicle.  Id., ¶9. 
The vehicle is a “new motor vehicle under Civil Code §1790 et seq.  Id., ¶13.
The parties do not dispute that the
subject vehicle is a 2020 Cadillac Escalade, VIN 1GYS4HKJ8LR103193.  Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts (DUMF) 1.  Plaintiffs
bought the Escalade used, with 47,718 miles, on June 30, 2021.  DUMF 2. 
The Escalade had a cash price of $68,882.  DUMF 4. 
With the Escalade, plaintiffs bought two non-GM products totaling
$5890:  (1) an optional service contract
from “PHD Productions” for $4995 and (2) a debt cancellation agreement for
$895.  DUMF 5.  Factoring in these two non-GM products, all
taxes and fees, including more than $12,600 in finance charges, the Total Sales
Price came to $95,457.92.  DUMF 6.  Plaintiffs were not the Escalade’s first
owners; the Escalade was delivered to its original owner as a daily rental in
Missouri on July 2, 2019, with nine miles on its odometer.  DUMF 7. 
In connection with the Escalade’s delivery to its original owner(s), GM
issued a New Vehicle Limited Warranty with bumper-to-bumper coverage for the
earlier of 48 months or 50,000 miles and powertrain coverage for the earlier of
72 months or 70,000 miles.  DUMF 8.
1st cause of action for
violation of Song Beverly Act – breach of express warranty
Civil Code §1793.2 states, in
part:  “(d)(2) If the manufacturer or its
representative in this state is unable to service or repair a new motor
vehicle, as that term is defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section
1793.22, to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable
number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either promptly replace the new
motor vehicle in accordance with subparagraph (A) or promptly make restitution
to the buyer in accordance with subparagraph (B). . . .”
Under Civil Code §1793.22, “(e) For
the purposes of subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2 . . . , the following terms
have the following meanings:  . . . . (2)
‘New motor vehicle’ means a new motor vehicle that is bought or used primarily
for personal, family, or household purposes. . .  . ‘New motor vehicle’ includes . . . a
dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty . . . .” 
Defendant argues that this claim
fails because plaintiffs did not buy a “new motor vehicle” or receive a “new
car warranty” from GM, citing to Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.
App. 5th 209, 215, review granted July 13, 2022 (the
Song-Beverly Act does not apply to “previously owned motor vehicles with some
balances remaining on the manufacturer’s express warranty . . . .”).  
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that the court should follow Jensen v. BMW of N. Am., Inc. (1995) 35
Cal. App. 4th 112, 123 (“We conclude the words of section 1793.22
are reasonably free from ambiguity and cars sold with a balance remaining on
the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty are included with its definition
of ‘new motor vehicle.’”) and the subsequent cases that followed Jensen.  See, e.g., R & R Auto Center,
Inc. v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2006) 140 Cal. App. 4th 327,
335.  Plaintiffs assert that Jensen
is consistent with legislative intent and furthers the goals of the Song
Beverly Act.  Plaintiff also contends
that the plain language of the Act supports used car coverage.  Plaintiffs further argue that Rodriguez
is distinguishable because plaintiffs’ vehicle was purchased from defendant
GM’s authorized retailer with its knowledge and its warranty, like in Jensen.
In reply, defendant reiterates that
the parties do not dispute that the vehicle was not purchased new in
California, and thus plaintiffs lack standing under Song Beverly Act.  As to the Rodriguez case, defendant
argues that the court of appeal’s holding is legally sound and directly on
point, and that several courts have cited to Rodriguez for its
persuasive value.  Defendant also asserts
that the “facts here look nothing like the facts in Jensen.”
The court rules as follows:  In exercising its discretion, (see Auto
Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal. 2d 450, 456), the court
follows Rodriguez as more persuasive than Jensen, and the Rodriguez
facts are more analogous to the alleged facts in the herein case—a used vehicle
with some balance remaining on the manufacturer’s express warranty.  The Rodriguez court, in distinguishing
itself from the Jensen case, explained that Jensen “must be read
in light of the facts then before the court and are limited in that respect”
and that the Jensen court “was not asked to decide whether a used car
with an unexpired warranty sold by a third party reseller qualifies as a ‘new
motor vehicle.’”  Rodriguez,
supra, at 224.  The Rodriguez
court concluded based on “the statutory provision, its place within
[Song-Beverly] as a whole, and its legislative history,” the phrase “other
motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” refers to cars sold
with a full warranty, not to previously sold cars accompanied by some balance
of the original warranty.  Rodriguez,
at 225.
 
2nd cause of action for
violation of Song Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty
“[E]very sale of consumer goods
that are sold at retail in the state shall be accompanied by the manufacture’s
and the retail seller’s implied warranty that the goods are merchantable.”  Civil Code §1792.  “Consumer goods” is defined as “any new
product or part thereof that is used, bought, or leased for use primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes . . . .” Civil Code §1791(a).  
Defendant argues that the implied
warranties under Song-Beverly do not apply to manufacturers with respect to the
sale of used goods, citing to Civil Code §1795.5 and Ruiz Nunez v. FCA US
LLC (2021) 61 Cal. App. 5th 385, 399 (“It is evident from these
provisions that only distributors or sellers of used goods—not
manufacturers of new goods—have implied warranty obligations in the sale
of used goods.”).  Thus, defendant
argues, because plaintiffs bought the Escalade used and defendant is a
manufacturer, this cause of action fails as a matter of law.
Plaintiff does not address in the
opposition.
The court finds that defendant has
met its burden of showing that plaintiff cannot establish the elements under
this cause of action as it is undisputed that the vehicle was purchased used
and defendant is a manufacturer.  See Nunez,
supra; Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal. App. 5th
334, 337 (Song-Beverly Act “generally binds only distributors and retail
sellers in the sale of used goods.”). 
Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that defendant was “a
distributor or retail seller of used consumer goods” or in any way acted as
such.
 
3rd cause of action for
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act – breach of express warranty and 4th
cause of action for Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act – breach of implied warranty
“Magnuson-Moss ‘calls for the
application of state written and implied warranty law, not the creation of
additional federal law,’ except in specific instances in which it expressly
prescribes a regulating rule.”  Daugherty
v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 824,
833 (citation omitted).  “[F]ailure to
state a warranty claim under state law necessarily constituted a failure to
state a claim under Magnuson-Moss.”  law
constitutes a failure to state a claim under Magnuson-Moss.  Id. 
See also Arana v. Tesla Motors, Inc. (C.D. Cal. Feb. 7, 2023)
2023 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 20847 (“[A]n MMWA claim typically succeeds or fails along
with a plaintiff’s state warranty claims.”).
Defendant argues that because
plaintiffs’ claims fail under the Song Beverly Act, they also fail under the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that Magnuson-Moss creates a federal claim for relief that has its own
elements   Plaintiffs also contend that
defendant failed to present sufficient evidence to establish that the vehicle
was not given a warranty when it was purchased by plaintiffs, noting a GM
warranty booklet.
In reply, defendant contends that
it showed that it did not provide new or additional warranty coverage with
plaintiffs’ purchase, and that plaintiffs have not presented admissible
evidence that GM did provide new coverage.
The court finds that defendant has
shown that plaintiff cannot establish the elements under Magnuson-Moss in that
the underlying state warranty claims fail. 

 
Request for continuance
Plaintiffs contend that they have
sought to depose defendant’s PMQ on matters pertaining to the warranties
applicable to the vehicle, the sale of the vehicle, the certified pre-owned
procedures and coverage, among other things, and that defendant has precluded
plaintiff from taking such deposition. 
Plaintiff also asserts that defendant failed to respond to plaintiffs’
discovery requests with substantive verified responses or a responsive document
production.
In the reply, defendant argues that
no additional testimony or documents would change the grounds upon which GM is
seeking summary judgment, and that no discovery will change the fact that
plaintiffs did not buy the vehicle “new.” 
Also, defendant points out, the discovery cut-off passed on July 17,
2023.
The court finds that a continuance
is not warranted.
            Accordingly, the motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED.  The motion for
summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on the motion for summary
judgment.
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.