 Case Number:  22TRCV01015    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JONATHAN
  CRUZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01015




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF HERMOSA BEACH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 20,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant City of Hermosa Beach
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jonathan Cruz
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to Set No. 1 of Defendant’s
Form Interrogatories (General and Employment Law)
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to Set No. 1 of Special
Interrogatories
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to Set No. 1 of Requests for
Production of Documents
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to compel further
responses form interrogatories is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff Jonathan Cruz is ordered to respond further without objections
to defendant City of Hermosa Beach’s Form Interrogatories – General (Set No. 1),
Nos. 6.1-6.3, 8.2-8.8, 11.1-11.2, 17.1 (as to RFA Nos. 1, 9, 11) and Form
Interrogatories – Employment Law (Set No.1), Nos. 202.1, 202.2, 207.2, 210.4,
212.1-212.7, 213.1, 213.2, and 217.2 within 20 days, in compliance with CCP
§2030.220. 
The motion to compel further
responses to special interrogatories is granted in part and denied in part. The
motion is GRANTED as to Nos. 1, 4, 5,
9, 11, 15, 17, 21, 23, 25, 27, 32, 34, 36, 37, 42, 46, 47, and 48 and plaintiff
is ordered to respond further within 20 days. 
The motion is DENIED as to Nos. 3, 29, 43, and 54.
The
motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents is
GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to produce
responsive documents to Nos. 1-44 within 20 days.
Given that the parties
concur that the information sought should appropriately be produced subject to
a  confidential protective order the
parties are to meet and confer forthwith and present a joint proposed protective
order to the court within 7 days for the court’s order.  All  responses and documents produced shall be
subject to the protective order.
 
BACKGROUND
On October 21, 2022, Jonathan Cruz filed
a complaint against City of Hermosa Beach and Hermosa Beach Police Department
for (1) violation of Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of Rights Act, (2)
declaratory relief, and (3) Labor Code §1102.5.
On March 29, 2023, the court
sustained defendants’ demurrer to the 2nd cause of action with leave
to amend.
On April 13, 2023, plaintiff filed
a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
City of Hermosa Beach requests that the court compel plaintiff Jonathan Cruz to
respond further to its first set of form interrogatories-general, form
interrogatories-employment, special interrogatories, and requests for
production of documents.
            The
FAC alleges that City Manager Suja Lowenthal, who also serves as the City
Manager and Personnel Officer for the City of Hermosa Beach, implemented a
mandatory vaccination policy for Covid-19 and denied all sworn officers’,
including plaintiff’s, request for accommodations under the policy.  FAC, ¶4. 
It is believed that the City of Hermosa Beach was the only city in the
South Bay to institute a mandatory Covid-19 vaccination policy; therefore,
officers from other agencies that routinely worked in Hermosa Beach and/or
worked with Hermosa Beach police officers to provide aid to various cities did
not have to be vaccinated.  Id., ¶5.  While plaintiff was employed, after
implementation of the vaccination policy, he was routinely tested to determine
if he had the Covid virus whereas other vaccinated employees that were
vaccinated were not tested and appeared at work in an infected and/or
contagious status.  It is believed that
there was no good cause for the mandatory vaccination policy.  Id., ¶6. 
City Manager Lowenthal dismissed plaintiff, terminating his employment
with the City of Hermosa Beach and the Hermosa Beach Police Department.  It is believed that Lowenthal acted in excess
of her authority when she terminated plaintiff’s employment.  Id., ¶7.
            The
FAC further alleges that pursuant to Gov. Code §3304, and his due process
rights, plaintiff requested an administrative appeal of his dismissal.  Id., ¶8. 
Plaintiff believed that he was discriminated against because of his
deeply held beliefs that prevented him from getting vaccinated.  Id., ¶9. 
Because plaintiff filed complaint with the DFEH and/or EEOC, defendants
refused and continue to refuse to afford him an administrative appeal hearing
from his dismissal in violation of his due process rights and his rights under
Gov. Code §3304.  Id., ¶10.
            Defendant
asserts that it served its form interrogatories on plaintiff by email on May 8,
2023 and responses were due by June 9, 2023. 
Defendant served its special interrogatories and requests for production
of documents on plaintiff by email on May 18, 2023 and responses were due by
June 19, 2023.
On June
14, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel requested, and defense counsel granted, a two-week
extension for discovery responses until July 3, 2023.  Defendant asserts that they were mailed on
July 3 (as indicated on the proofs of service), but because of the holiday on
July 4, they were not postmarked until July 5. 
Defense counsel received plaintiff’s responses by mail on July 7, 2023.  Verifications were provided on July 14,
2023.  After reviewing the responses and
finding them to be deficient, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter on
July 20, 2023, requesting that plaintiff provide amended responses.  On July 27, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel
responded declining to amend plaintiff’s responses until defendant stipulated
to a protective order.  Defendant
contends that plaintiff’s counsel conditioned the protective order as a waiver
of defendant’s Pitchess objections for privileged third-party officer personnel
and health records.  On August 16, 2023,
defense counsel sent another meet and confer letter “explaining that
Plaintiff’s objections lacked merit and that the responses provided were
evasive and incomplete” and that it would agree to a protective order but that
the protective order does not address the City’s separate Pitchess obligations
with regard to its maintenance of third-party records.  In an email August 25, 2023, plaintiff’s
counsel maintained that plaintiff had properly and fully responded to all
questions as posed and reiterated that he believed Pitchess procedures were
applicable to all discovery propounded to plaintiff.
            Defendant
argues that plaintiff waived his objections because the responses were served
after July 3, 2023.  Further, defendant
argues, in any event, plaintiff’s objections lack merit.  Defendant asserts that plaintiff objected
that the interrogatories were compound, vague, and ambiguous and that the
interrogatories purportedly call for information subject to Pitchess
protections and procedures.  Defendant
contends that it utilized the standard Judicial Council approved definition of
“incident” and that plaintiff and his counsel are presumed to understand the
factual basis for their legal contentions. 
Defendant further argues that plaintiff’s substantive responses are
evasive and incomplete.
As to
whether Pitchess procedure applies, defendant contends that Pitchess does not
apply to plaintiff, as an individual party, because the “general personnel
file” that is privileged from disclosure under Pitchess is “the file maintained
by the agency containing the primary records specific to each peace or
custodial officer’s employment, including evaluations, assignments, status
changes, and imposed discipline.”  Penal
Code §832.5(d)(1).  Defendant argues that
plaintiff is “taking the absurd position that the City must go through the
process of effectively noticing a motion against itself requesting information
it does not possess, for a hearing it can waive, as a prerequisite to engaging
in defensive discovery in this matter.” 
Defendant asserts that it does not seek to disclose plaintiff’s
personnel records but instead seeks documents not in its possession regarding
plaintiff’s allegations.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the motion is untimely.  Plaintiff also contends that his responses
were not untimely because they were served on July 3.  Plaintiff argues that a Pitchess motion is
required because defendant is seeking to conduct discovery and disclosure from
confidential personnel files and information contained in such files.
 
            Initially,
the court finds that the motions are timely, as plaintiff did not serve his
verifications until July 14, 2023, and the motions were filed on August 28,
2023, which is 45 days.  The court also
finds that plaintiff did not waive his objections as the proofs of service
indicate that he served his responses by the agreed upon date of July 3,
2023.  As to the Pitchess procedure for
the discovery sought by defendant from plaintiff, the court finds that it does
not apply.  Under Penal Code §832.8, “As
used in Section 832.7, the following words or phrases have the following
meanings:  (a) “Personnel records” means
any file maintained under that individual’s name by his or her employing agency
and containing records relating to any of the following:
(1)
Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and
employment history, home addresses, or similar information.
(2)
Medical history.
(3)
Election of employee benefits.
(4)
Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline.
(5)
Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction
in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining
to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties.
(6) Any
other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy.”
The
information sought below does not appear to be implicated in the definition of
“personnel records.”  Further, defendant
persuasively distinguished the cases cited by plaintiff.  Also, defendant is seeking information from
plaintiff, which would not be “maintained by the agency.”
 
                        Form
Interrogatories - General
            Nos.
6.1 (do you attribute any physical, mental, or emotional injuries to the
incident?), 6.2 (identify each injury you attribute to the incident and the
area of your body affected), 6.3 (do you still have complaints that you
attribute to the incident? If so, for each complaint state description, whether
it is subsiding, same, or worse, and frequency/duration) – Plaintiff
objected to the definition of “incident” and responded that he has suffered
“general emotional distress” and that it is “subsiding, regularly for short
durations.”  Defendant points out that
the FAC alleges that he sustained “physical, mental, and emotional injuries,
pain, distress, suffering, anguish, fright, nervousness, grief, anxiety, worry,
shame, mortification, injured feelings, shock, humiliation and indignity, as
well as other unpleasant physical, mental, and emotional reactions, damages to
reputation, and other non-economic damages.”
            Plaintiff’s
objections lack merit, and his responses are incomplete and evasive.  
 
            Nos.
8.2-8.8 – request information re nature of work, job title, date employment
began, compensation, lost income. 
Plaintiff responded, “confidential peace officer information; that
propounding party is in possession of.”
            The
court finds that plaintiff’s responses are deficient and such information
(titles, dates of employment, salary information, loss of income) is not
subject to Pitchess. 
 
            Nos.
11.1, 11.2 – request information as to whether plaintiff filed an action or
made a written claim or demand for compensation for his personal injuries.  Plaintiff responded that he has filed workers
compensation claims but declined to respond further claiming “confidential
peace officer personnel information.”
            The
court finds that plaintiff’s response is deficient and that such information is
not subject to Pitchess because it does not relate to the manner in which
plaintiff performed his duties.  See
Penal Code §§832.7 and 832.8.
 
No. 17.1 – requests
information as to any response that is not an unqualified admission. 
As to RFA
No. 1 (admit you do not have any sincerely held religious beliefs that prevent
you from receiving a Covid-19 vaccination), plaintiff did not provide facts as
to the subparts of 17.1.  Also,
plaintiff’s objections lack merit.
As to RFA
No. 9 (admit that during the March 1, 2022 conference you were afforded an
opportunity to contest the City’s decision to separate you from employment as
referenced in the February 22, 2022 notice of forfeiture of employment),
plaintiff responded that “Suja Lowenthal was going through the motions, and did
not provide plaintiff with a fair and real opportunity to contest the City’s
stated intention to separate plaintiff’s employment.  Plaintiff’s response is evasive and does not
provide facts to support the subparts of 17.1. 

As to RFA
No. 11 (admit you did not communicate to the City that you believed it had
engaged in any unlawful activity prior to it issuing its February 22, 2022
notice of forfeiture of employment). 
Plaintiff responded that he “raised issues regarding the violations of
law throughout his career, and challenged the City Manager’s Covid-19 policy on
multiple occasions prior to the notice of intent to separate.”  As defendant argues, plaintiff’s response is
evasive and incomplete.
                        
Form Interrogatories – Employment Law
            No.
202.1 – asks if plaintiff contends that an adverse employment actions
against him were discriminatory. 
Plaintiff responds that this lawsuit does not involve disciplinary or
punitive action, and that the Form Interrogatory is inapplicable but then
responds that to the extent it is applicable, “termination and denial of
administrative appeal.  Gender, race,
religious beliefs . . . .” and reiterates his allegations.
            Defendant
argues that plaintiff does not state all facts upon which he bases his allegations
of discrimination of gender, race, and religious discrimination.  In opposition, plaintiff contends that he is
not asserting a cause of action for discrimination.  In reply, defendant argues that plaintiff’s
allegations of religious discrimination are central to resolution of this case.  Although plaintiff claims that this is not a
discrimination case, plaintiff alleges that he believed he was discriminated
against.  See Complaint, ¶9. 
 
            No.
202.2 – requests all facts upon which plaintiff bases his contention that
he was qualified to perform any job which he contends was denied on account of
unlawful discrimination.  He responded
that he was discriminated due to his religious beliefs.  As defendant argues, plaintiff’s response
should explain the factual basis for his claim that he had a valid and
sincerely-held religious belief, the limitations and obligations imposed by that
belief, and explain how he could nonetheless perform the functions of his
job.  Thus, plaintiff’s response is
evasive and incomplete.
 
            No.
207.2 – asks if the employee complained to the employer about any of the
unlawful conduct alleged in the pleading. 
Plaintiff responded that he wrote a letter to the mayor twice and a
letter to the chief of police, but is not certain of the exact dates.  The court notes that there are ten subparts
to this request and that plaintiff failed to respond to each one.
 
            No.
210.4 – asks if plaintiff has attempted to minimize the amount of his lost
income.  If so, describe how; if not,
explain why not.  Plaintiff responded
that he should not be responsible for minimizing his potential earning from a
“career where I was illegally terminated from” and that “yes, have looked for
other work as a police officer.”  As
argued by defendant, plaintiff’s response is incomplete and evasive.
 
            Nos.
212.1 (do you attribute any physical, mental, or emotional injuries to the
adverse employment action), and 212.2 (identify each physical, mental, or emotional
injury that you attribute to the adverse employment action), 212.3 (do you
still have complaints that you attribute to the adverse employment action),
212.4 (receive any consultation or examination or treatment from a health care
provider for any injury you attribute to the adverse employment action), 212.5
(have you taken any medication, prescribed or not, as a result of injuries that
you attribute to the adverse employment action, 212.6 (are there any other
medical services not previously listed in response to No. 212.5), 212.7 (has
any health care provider advised that you may require future or additional
treatment for any injuries that you attribute to the adverse employment action)
– Plaintiff objected based on “asked and answered.”  The court finds that plaintiff’s objection
lacks merit.  Further, plaintiff’s
responses to the form interrogatories – general were deficient.
 
            Nos.
213.1 (any other damages that you attribute to the adverse employment action),
213.2 (do any documents support the existence or amount of any item of damages
claimed in 213.1) – Plaintiff responded, “I’m not sure.”  The court finds that this response is
deficient and not responsive and ambiguous and is not complete and
straightforward.  CCP §2030.220.
 
            No.
217.2 – same as No. 17.1.  Plaintiff
improperly objected with “asked and answered.” 

 
            The
court finds that plaintiff’s objections lack merit, and his substantive
responses are deficient as outlined in defendant’s separate statement.
            Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED.
 
                        Special
Interrogatories
            No.
1 – contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶4 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating his allegation.
No. 3 –
plaintiff responded sufficiently, and defendant does not make any argument for
a further response.
No. 4 –
plaintiff responded by referring to his response to No. 3, which identified
several individuals at police departments in other cities.  Defendant asserts that plaintiff’s response
is deficient because plaintiff did not provide contact information and thus the
response is incomplete.  
No. 5 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶5 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating his allegation.
No. 9 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶8 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating his allegation.
No. 11 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶9 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating his allegation.
No. 15 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶15 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating his allegation.
No. 17 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶24 (contention that City of HB
and/or HB Police Dept. has a history of denying police officers the opportunity
for administrative appeal when subjected to punitive action) – plaintiff
responded by naming several officers but provided no other information, and
thus, the response is incomplete.
No. 21 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶42 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint without providing any further, substantive
information or evidence.
No. 23 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶43 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint without providing any further, substantive
information or evidence.
No. 25 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶44 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint without providing any further, substantive
information or evidence.
No. 27 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶45 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint without providing any further, substantive
information or evidence.
No. 29 –
identify all healthcare providers plaintiff has seen for treatment,
consultation, or other healthcare services within the past five years.  Plaintiff objected that the interrogatory
seeks to invade plaintiff’s right to privacy and the confidential medical
information act/HIPPA.
Defendant
argues that plaintiff has put his vaccination status at issue, “so the
identification of healthcare providers will be necessary to determine the
merits of plaintiff’s claimed religious objections” and that plaintiff has put
his physical and mental health at issue by alleging that he suffered and
continues to suffer physical, mental, and emotional injuries.
The court
finds that the interrogatory is overly broad. 
Counsel are to meet and confer to narrow the interrogatory as to
plaintiff’s medical information.
No. 32 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶46 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint and did not provide any response to the other
“coveted positions in the City” or the benefits plaintiff would have received
but-for his separation from employment.
No. 34 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶47 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint and did not provide any response to the “other income
and/or opportunities to obtain employment and/or increase plaintiff’s earning
capacity” outside of the City.
No. 36 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶48 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint and did not provide any response as to incidental and
consequential damages except that he had to make up the loss of his salary and
benefits through “other measures” but does not identify such measures. 
No. 37 –
identify all person with knowledge supporting plaintiff’s contention that he
“suffered other incidental and consequential damages.”  
Plaintiff
responded only identifying himself. 
Defendant argues that the response is evasive and incomplete because he
had responded in No. 36 that he had to supplement the loss of his income and
benefits through other measures, which “implies that he has worked or
transacted with at least one person or entity, if not multiple.”
No. 42 –
contention interrogatory as to Complaint, ¶54 – plaintiff responded by
reiterating the complaint and added that he filed a tort claim and “he sent
communications” to the City and City Council but did not provide any other
details.  
No. 43 –
identify all persons with knowledge supporting plaintiff’s contention that
plaintiff complained to defendants about the inappropriate actions and/or
retaliation, but nothing was done to investigate and/or stop the retaliation.  Plaintiff responded “Suja Lowenthal, City
Clerk, Vanessa Godinez, Paul LeBaron, Hermosa Beach City Council, Plaintiff.”
The court
finds that the response is sufficient.
No. 46 –
state each communication plaintiff contends constitutes a request for an
administrative appeal of plaintiff’s dismissal, as alleged in Complaint, ¶8.
Plaintiff
responded “March 16, 2022, Appeal Letter. 
Verbal and email conversations between Jennifer Misetich and Plaintiff’s
counsel.”  Defendant argues that the
response is vague because it fails to specify the exact communications that
plaintiff claims constituted requests for an appeal.
No. 47 –
state each communication plaintiff contends constitutes a disclosure to a
person with authority over plaintiff, and/or to another employee who had
authority to investigate, discover and/or correct violations of
law/statutes/regulations, as alleged in Complaint, ¶42.
Plaintiff
responded, “verbal conversation with Suja Lowenthal, Jennifer Misetich, and
Dorothy Scheid; email communications to City of HB City Council, Tort Claim,
Appeal Letter.”  Defendant argues that
the response is vague because it fails to specify the exact communications that
plaintiff claims constituted protected disclosures or complaints.
No. 48 –
state each communication plaintiff contends constitutes a “complaint to
defendants about the inappropriate actions and/or retaliation,” as alleged in
Complaint, ¶54.  Plaintiff responded the
same as No. 47.  
No. 54 –
identify all persons with knowledge of the facts that support the 3rd
cause of action for violation of Labor Code §1102.5.
Plaintiff
responded, “City Council, the City Clerk (via Tort Claim), verbally to Suja
Lowenthal, Jennifer Misetich, Vanessa Godinez, Dorothy Scheid.”
The court
finds the response sufficient.
Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED as to Nos. 1, 4, 5, 9, 11, 15, 17, 21, 23, 25, 27, 32,
34, 36, 37, 42, 46, 47, and 48 and DENIED as to Nos. 3, 29, 43, and 54.
 
 
 
 
 
                        Requests
for Production of Documents
            As
to each of the 44 requests, plaintiff asserted objections and responded,
“Plaintiff, to the extent he understands the Request, will produce all
non-privileged documents upon the issuance of a protective order as provided
for under Evidence Code §1045(e).” 
Plaintiff has not produced any documents.
            As
stated above, Pitchess does not apply to the documents sought by defendant from
plaintiff.
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 
            Sanctions
            The
court declines to award sanctions against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of
record finding that they acted with substantial justification. 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.