  Case Number:  21STCV42065    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion for Reconsideration
Alberto Camacho Nuno, et al. vs. American Honda Motor
Co., Inc., 21STCV42065
Moving Parties: Plaintiffs Alberto Camacho Nuno, Itzel Nuno,
and Concepcion Nuno

Responding Party: Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.

Background
            This is a
lemon law case filed by Plaintiffs Alberto Camacho Nuno, Itzel Nuno, and
Concepcion Nuno (Plaintiffs). On June 20, 2022, this Court granted Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s (Defendant) motion to compel arbitration. The
Court granted the motion pursuant to the Third District’s Felisilda v. FCA
US, LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, which held that arbitration clauses in
the purchase agreements with car dealerships may apply to the third party car
manufacturers in certain circumstances. In that case, the dealership had
originally been a party to the lawsuit, so the Court of Appeal held that the
arbitration clause would apply to the manufacturer as well.
            On April 4,
2023, 10 months after this Court ruled on Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration, the Second District ruled in In Ford Motor Warranty Cases
(Ochoa, et al.) (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, that the express language of
the standard-form RISC arbitration clause permits only the signatories and
named parties to the contract to enforce the arbitration clause and choose to
have disputes between them compelled to arbitration. There have been a couple
of other cases that have been decided with similar holdings to Ochoa.
            Plaintiffs’
motion for reconsideration is based on Ochoa. Plaintiffs argue that Ochoa
represents a change in the law that allows for the reconsideration of this
Court’s granting of Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
            Defendant
makes several arguments in opposition. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ motion
is untimely, and that this Court does not have jurisdiction to hear the motion
because the parties are currently in the arbitration process. Defendant also
argues that Felisilda is still good law because Ochoa did not
overrule Felisilda.
            Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that the Court may reconsider its decisions at any time.
Plaintiffs also argue that the Court retains jurisdiction involving the same
agreement to arbitrate. Finally, Plaintiffs argue that Ochoa should be
the controlling law because it is distinguishable from Felisilda’s
holding, and Plaintiffs’ case more closely aligns with the circumstances in Ochoa
than with those in Felisilda. The dealership was never involved in
Plaintiffs’ case, as Plaintiff only sued Defendant as the manufacturer.
In the Meantime…
The parties had been ordered to
arbitrate this matter on June 20, 2022. 
On December 19, 2022 this Court conducted a Status Conference re:
Arbitration and was told by the parties that they had selected a neutral, were
awaiting a status conference and expected a fall 2023 arbitration hearing.  Its fall 2023.  Based on that representation the Court set a
status conference re: Arbitration for November 29, 2023, anticipating that the
parties would have concluded the arbitration.
On May 18, 2023, following the Ochoa
decision the Plaintiff came to to court on an ex parte application titled
Plaintiffs’ Notice and Ex Parte Motion for Reconsideration of Prior Court
Order, or Alternatively, To Specially Set a Date for a Motion for
Reconsideration.  The grounds were noted
in the supporting declation.
“7. Plaintiffs will be greatly
prejudiced and harmed should they be denied a jury trial and instead be forced
to continue with binding arbitration. Further, the parties will incur
significant expense should arbitration continue while this matter remains
unresolved. Finally, in light of the time limitations imposed by California
Code of Civil Procedure, section 583.310, Plaintiff has only five years to
bring this case to trial as the deadline is not tolled or extended during the
period that the case is in arbitration.”
The Court on May 19, 2023 ruled
that it would hear the matter on shortened time, set the matter for hearing on
May 19, 2023 and DENIED the Motion for Reconsideration in light of Ochoa.
On October 2, 2023 Plaintiff filed
the motion before this Court today.  It
is seeking the same reconsideration relief, but points to additional decisions
that reach the same conclusion as Ochoa. 
This is a repeat of the prior reconsideration motion, with more
citations to show that other courts are agreeing with Ochoa.
CCP § 1008 governs reconsideration.
It reads as follows:
“(a) When an application for an
order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part,
or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the
order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order…
(b) A party who originally made an
application for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted
conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law…
(c) If a court at any time
determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a
prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and enter a
different order.”
The issue before this Court is not
simply whether there is authority, or even increasing authority, supporting the
Ochoa line of cases.  The Court
agrees with that line of cases as having been better reasoned than Felisida.  But what is before this Court is not a Motion
to Compel Arbitration.  What is before
this Court is what is proper given the Court’s prior order to arbitrate, given
the Court’s prior rejection of this Reconsideration Motion on this topic, and
that fact that this arbitration should be nearly completed.
The Court shall not grant a
reconsideration, now requested for the second time.  The Motion is DENIED (again) with the Court
choosing not to reconsider the June 20, 2022 ruling.

ORDER
Motion
for Reconsideration is DENIED with the Court not Reconsidering the prior
rulings.
