  Case Number:  21STCV17747    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



LAKHBIR KAUR DHATT, an Individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
UNIVERSAL STUDIOS, INC., a business entity of unknown form; OTIS
  ELEVATOR COMPANY, a business entity of unknown form; and DOES 1 through 50,
  Inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
UNIVERSAL STUDIOS, INC., a business entity of unknown form,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY., a business entity of unknown form, and
  ROES 1 through 50 inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV17747
 Hearing Date:   10/25/23
 Trial Date:        5/14/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
  Universal Studios LLC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Lakhbir Kaur Dhatt’s
  Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Lakhbir Kaur Datt sues
Defendants Universal City Studios LLC (sued as Universal Studios, Inc.;
hereafter Universal City), Otis Elevator Company (Otis Elevator), and Does 1 through
50 pursuant to an April 4, 2023 First Amended Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Common Carrier Liability against Universal City and Does, (2) Negligence
against Universal City, Otis, and Does, and (3) Strict Products Liability, (4)
Negligent Products Liability, and (5) Breach of Express and Implied Warranties
against Otis and Does.
The claims arise from allegations
that on or about May 19, 2019, Plaintiff was lawfully on the premises located
at 100 Universal City Plaza, Universal City, CA 91608 and that Plaintiff was
riding an escalator on the premises that was negligently, carelessly,
recklessly trained, operated, controlled, entrusted, managed, maintained,
repaired, or tested, such that the escalator was caused to and did suddenly and
without warning malfunction and shake with plaintiff standing on it, causing
him to fall down, and proximately causing injuries and damages to Plaintiff
Dhatt.
In turn, Universal City sues Otis
Elevator pursuant to a July 14, 2023 Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Express Contractual Indemnity, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Implied Contractual
Indemnity, (4) Contribution, (5) Appointment, and (6) Declaratory Relief.
Motion Before the Court
On December 28, 2022, Universal
City served on Plaintiff Dhatt Special Interrogatories (SROGs), Set One.
On March 15, 2023, Plaintiff Dhatt
served objections to SROGs, Set One.
On April 27, 2023, Plaintiff Dhatt
served objections and responses to SROGs, Set One.
On April 28, 2023, Universal City
served Plaintiff’s counsel with a meet and confer letter regarding supplemental
responses to SROGs, Set One.
On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff Dhatt
served supplemental responses to SROGs, Set One, including responses to Request
No. 22 but not to Request Nos. 23-26.
On May 24, 2023, Universal City
served Plaintiff’s counsel with a second meet and confer letter regarding
supplemental responses to SROGs, Set One.
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel represented that Plaintiff would not supplement responses to SROGs, Set
One, Request Nos. 23-26. Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to extend Universal City’s
deadline to compel further interrogatory responses until two weeks after an
informal discovery conference (IDC) between the parties and the Court took
place, with the IDC to be calendared by University City shortly thereafter. 
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel again represented that Plaintiff would not be supplementing responses
to SROGs, Set One, Nos. 23-26.
On September 18, 2023, the Court
held an IDC between the parties, at which time the parties reached some
stipulations regarding outstanding discovery.
On September 25, 2023, Universal
City filed a stipulation and proposed order regarding the agreements reached at
the September 18, 2023 IDC. Specifically as to special interrogatories, the
stipulation agreed that Plaintiff would provide further responses to SROGs, Set
One, No. 10 within ten days of receiving certain documents.
On September 27, 2023, the Court
signed the stipulation and proposed order.
On October 3, 2023, Universal City
filed a separate statement and declaration in support of a motion to compel
further responses from Plaintiff Dhatt relating to Universal City’s SROGs, Set
One, Request Nos. 22-26.
On October 4, 2023, Universal City
filed points and authorities, a notice, and a proposed order in support of its
motion to compel further interrogatory responses. The points and authorities do
not seek monetary sanctions.
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff
Dhatt opposed the motion.
On October 18, 2023, Universal City
replied to the opposition.
Universal City’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses, Special Interrogatories

Timeliness
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be filed and served within 45 days after the initial
verified response or supplemental verified response was personally served or by
any specific later date that the discovering party agreed to in writing. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd. (c) [Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants, supra,
at p. 403].) Extra time is added to the 45 days if the response was served by a
method other than personal delivery. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1010.6, subd.
(a)(3)(B), 1013, subds. (a), (c), (e), 2016.050.)
Though not raised by the parties, the
Court initially notes that the motion is timely.
Universal City’s motion provides
that “Defendant’s deadline to file any necessary motion to compel [wa]s October
2, 2023.” (Mot., p. 4.) This deadline was based on the parties’ agreement that
any motion to compel further SROGs was due two weeks after the parties IDC,
which took place on September 18, 2023. (Mot., Nizam Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. F; see
9/18/23 IDC Minutes.)
This motion was ultimately filed
with the Court on October 3 and 4, 2023.
Nevertheless, the motion is timely.
The 45-day timeline set out in Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300,
subdivision (c), is only applicable to a motion seeking to compel further
responses to an initial verified response or supplemental verified response. A
review of Plaintiff Dhatt’s responses to SROGs, Set One, Request Nos. 22-26
show that the responses were unverified. (See Mot., Nizam Decl., Exs. B
[initial substantive responses, no verification], D [supplemental substantive response
to Request No. 22, also unverified].)
To the extent the parties agreed to
an October 2, 2023 deadline, such an agreement was made in the spirit of Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (c), which is inapplicable.
Consequently, the Code did not
impose a deadline to make this motion.
Order Compelling Further
Interrogatory Responses: GRANTED, in Part.
I. SROGs, Set One,
No. 22
SROGs, Set One, No. 22 states: “IDENTIFY
all HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS that YOU have received MEDICAL TREATMENT from since
May 19, 2015.” (Mot., Separate Statement.)
Plaintiff’s initial response to
this interrogatory was made up of objections alone, while Plaintiff’s
supplemental response consisted of objections plus a short statement indicating
that “Plaintiff is unable to recall” this information. (Mot., Nizam Decl., Exs.
B, D; Mot., Separate Statement.)
After review, the Court finds that
a further response to this SROG is merited to a degree.
The request is overbroad as to
time. The injury alleged in the FAC is alleged to have taken place on May 19,
2019. (FAC, ¶ 12.) It is unclear why Universal City needs medical information
dating from four years prior to the alleged injury up through the present date.
Neither does Universal City provide that information in the motion, reply
brief, or separate statement.
Similarly, the request is overbroad
as to scope. Universal City did not qualify its discovery request to health
care providers that treated Plaintiff for the injuries alleged in the FAC.
Rather, Universal City’s interrogatory seeks information for all health care
providers that Plaintiff has consulted since May 19, 2015. As with the
timeframe for this request, nowhere in its motion, reply brief, or separate
statement does Universal City provide the reasons that this overbroad
information is needed.
However, the Court finds that there
is nothing burdensome, vague, or ambiguous about this request. It simply
requires identification of health care providers from which Plaintiff Dhatt has
received medical treatment. Nor does this request ask for “expert opinion” or a
“legal conclusion.” Plaintiff is simply asked to provide information related to
health care providers that have treated Plaintiff within a specific timeframe.
Such a request is relevant to Plaintiff’s physical and mental condition, both
of which were put at issue in the FAC. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶ 16.) The Court also
notes that Plaintiff Dhatt advances no grounds whatsoever to support objections
to this interrogatory based on the attorney-client and attorney work product
privileges.
To the extent that Plaintiff argues
that this response “is … straightforward and clear,” the Court disagrees.  Indeed, Plaintiff Dhatt makes contradictory
statements in opposing a further response to this interrogatory, such as that
she “is not withholding information” as to this interrogatory while
simultaneously asserting that, during her deposition, she “identified that her
primary care physician in 2019 was Dr. Morris and Dr. Amanda Lee” and
“identified Dr. Lynch as her current primary care physician.” (Mot., Separate
Statement, p. 4.) None of these three doctors were identified in response to
this interrogatory, but Plaintiff admits she had this information at her
deposition, undercutting Plaintiff’s credibility. Plaintiff can, at a minimum,
provide those health care providers, as well as indicate any other information she
has about her medical providers, and what efforts she has made to identify them.
Last, the Court notes that
Plaintiff’s references in her opposition to the separate statement to the
September 18, 2023 IDC are not persuasive. The Court’s function at an IDC is to
attempt to facilitate an agreement as to discovery with limited information at
hand, not to make a determination on the merits informed by full briefing and
supporting evidence.
Universal City’s motion is
therefore GRANTED, in Part, as to compelling a further response to SROGs, Set
One, No. 22, with the following modifications: the interrogatory is limited to
May 19, 2019 to the present; and the interrogatory is limited to medical
treatment—physical, mental, or otherwise—arising from the injuries alleged in
the Complaint.
II. SROGs, Set One,
Nos. 23-25
SROGs, Set One, No. 23 states: “State
all facts supporting YOUR claim that the subject escalator was defective.”
(Mot., Separate Statement.)
SROGs, Set One, No. 24 states: “State
all facts supporting YOUR claim that the subject escalator was defective in
design.” (Mot., Separate Statement.)
SROGs, Set One, No. 25 states: “State
all facts supporting YOUR claim that the subject escalator was defective in
manufacture.” (Mot., Separate Statement.)
In response to these interrogatory
requests, Plaintiff provided identical objections, as well as nearly identical
substantive responses lifted almost verbatim from the FAC.
After review, the Court determines
that further responses are merited to these interrogatories.
Plaintiff Dhatt’s FAC alleges
defects in the subject escalator, as well as defects in design and
manufacturing. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 38-39.) These interrogatory requests are
thus clearly not irrelevant, nor are they overly broad, burdensome, vague, or
ambiguous. While the Court can understand why Plaintiff objects to this
interrogatory based on calling for an expert opinion or on calling for a legal
conclusion, Plaintiff has nevertheless advanced these defects in her FAC.
Plaintiff could have alleged that a simple malfunction took place, shaking the
subject escalator, thus causing her to fall and suffer injuries. Instead,
Plaintiff Dhatt alleged defects based on design and manufacturing. She must
have had a basis for including such allegations in the FAC, for which reason she
cannot now turn around and hide from discovery requesting that she explain the
grounds for those allegations. As for Plaintiff’s objections based on the attorney-client
and attorney work product privileges, the Court finds no basis for these
objections. Interrogatories, by their nature, are responded to with the
assistance of counsel. (Field v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2022) 79
Cal.App.5th 703, 708.)
To the extent that Plaintiff argues
that her responses are “clear and straightforward,” the Court disagrees. The
responses to these interrogatories essentially repeat the allegations in the
FAC without elaborating the actual factual grounds, even if based on
information and belief, for alleging that the subject escalator was defective,
let alone defective in design or manufacturing.
Universal City’s motion is
therefore GRANTED as to compelling a further response to SROGs, Set One, Nos.
23-25, with no modifications by the Court.
III. SROGs, Set One,
No. 26
SROGs, Set One, No. 26 states: “State
all facts supporting YOUR claim that the defect in the subject escalator
proximately caused the harm alleged in the Complaint.”
Plaintiff responded to this
interrogatory with the same objections raised to the above interrogatory
requests and with a substantive response largely reading like the FAC’s
allegations.
After review, the Court finds that a
further response is merited to this interrogatory.
Plaintiff’s objections are without
merit. This interrogatory is clearly relevant as to causation and is in no way
overly broad, burdensome, vague, or ambiguous. Moreover, no expert opinion or
legal conclusion is called for. Plaintiff is simply being asked why she
attributes her physical and mental injuries to the alleged malfunction on the
subject escalator. As for Plaintiff’s objections based on the attorney-client
and attorney work product privileges, the Court finds no basis for these
objections.
To the extent that Plaintiff argues
that she has made a “clear and straightforward response, the Court disagrees. The
interrogatory response provides that “said escalator malfunctioned causing
plaintiff to fall down the SUBJECT ESCALATOR proximately inflicting serious,
severe, and permanent injuries to said plaintiff's person.” Plaintiff’s
response also provides that as a result of the malfunction, she “sustain[ed] injuries
to her body, and shock and injury to her nervous system and person, all of
which said injuries have caused and continue to cause the plaintiff great
physical, mental and nervous pain and suffering.” (Mot., Separate Statement, p.
18.)
While these statements are somewhat
responsive, they could be clearer as to the type of injuries sustained and how
the subject elevator malfunctioning caused that harm. Indeed, Plaintiff’s
response is rather vague as to the causal link between the alleged malfunction
and Plaintiff’s mental injuries. Though Plaintiff admits that she has served
discovery responses providing that she sustained a hip fracture as a result of
the May 19, 2019 incident, this information is not included in this
interrogatory response. Moreover, even if Universal City has a video of the
alleged incident, Plaintiff is under an obligation to provide responses to
relevant discovery, such as the interrogatory posed here, unless Plaintiff
raises a proper objection, which Plaintiff fails to do.
Universal City’s motion is
therefore GRANTED as to compelling a further response to SROGs, Set One, No.
26, with no modifications by the Court. 
Conclusion
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Universal Studios LLC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Lakhbir Kaur Dhatt’s Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED, in Part, as
explained above.
Plaintiff Lakhbir Kaur Dhatt is
ORDERED to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos.
22-26—with request No. 22 modified above—within 20 calendar days of this
ruling.