  Case Number:  20SMC00909    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Nohaile et. al. v.
HLI Holdings, LLC et al., Case No. 20SMC00909
Hearing Date
October 26, 2023 
Defendant
Itzhaki’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint 
 
Plaintiffs sued defendants
Titan Contracting Services, which built plaintiffs’ home, and its CEO/President
Itzhaki, alleging defects and failure to conform to construction plans.
Defendant Itzhaki demurs and moves to strike portions of the second amended
complaint (SAC).  
 
Demurrer
Itzhaki argues the
SAC does not allege specific conduct by Itzhaki that could give rise to liability
and fails to allege sufficient facts to establish his alter ego status. 
 
Alter ego
liability applies when there is “such unity of interest and ownership that the
separate personalities of the corporation and the individual no longer exist
and (2) if the acts are treated as those of the corporation alone, an
inequitable result will follow.” Las Palmas Assoc. v. Las Palmas Center
Assoc. (1992) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1249. 
 
As to the first
prong, plaintiffs allege “comingling of funds, lack of adequate capitalization,
failure to maintain proper books and records[.]” SAC ¶8. These allegations of
ultimate fact are sufficient at the pleading stage to show a unity of interest
and ownership and fulfill the first prong.
 
As to the second
prong, plaintiffs allege “adherence to the fiction of a separate existence
between Titan, Itzhaki, and Does 1 through 20 would under the circumstances of
this case, promote and constitute an injustice of sanction fraud [SIC].” Id.
Plaintiffs do not identify any injustice that would result if alter ego
liability is not applied, nor allege how failing to pierce the corporate veil
would sanction fraud.
 
Plaintiffs argue
Itzhaki can be held personally liable because the SAC alleges he “personally
participated in and directed the construction work on plaintiffs’ new
single-family residence[.]” SAC ¶6. Merely participating in or directing
construction work does not give rise to liability; plaintiffs must allege
specific tortious conduct, which the SAC does not. SUSTAINED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
Itzhaki’s motion
to strike is duplicative of the demurrer. Given the demurrer ruling, the motion
to strike is MOOT. 