  Case Number:  24LBCV01613    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundOn August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants American Honda Motor Company and Does 1 to 10, alleging violations of the Song-Beverely Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”), the breach of implied warranty of merchantability and fraudulent inducement – concealment. Plaintiff alleges that on or about February 17, 2021, a warranty contract was entered into with Defendant regarding a 2021 Honda Pilot, vehicle identification number 5FNYF5H28MB009590. (Compl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff asserts that despite this warranty, Defendant did not offer to repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle when the defects and nonconformities manifested during the warranty window for the Subject Vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-15.)Legal StandardsDemurrerA demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be. A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50, subd. (a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. Per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (a), a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. Furthermore, a demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Motion to StrikeA party may move to strike matters from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false or improper. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436, subd. (a).) Motion to strike may also target all or any part of pleadings not filed or drawn in conformity with the applicable laws, rules or orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) A Motion to Strike is the proper procedure for testing the adequacy of a punitive damages allegation because punitive damages are not a cause of action. (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) To obtain punitive damages in an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, a plaintiff must demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that the defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) The clear and convincing evidence standard “requires a finding of high probability . . . ‘so clear as to leave no substantial doubt’; sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1211.)“Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) "[D]espicable” connotes conduct that is ". . . so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Lackner, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 1210.) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) “Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Not only must there by circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166.)Meet and ConferThe requirements are satisfied. (Park Decl. ISO Demurrer, ¶ 1; Park Decl. ISO Motion to Strike; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2), and § 435.5, subd. (a)(2) & (3).)DiscussionDefendant demurs to the 5th cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is time-barred by the statute of limitations.Failure to State a Cause of Action“The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)The elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment are: (1) concealment of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose; (3) the defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it known the fact; and (5) damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)A concealment cause of action has a more relaxed specificity requirement as compared to affirmative misrepresentations because a concealment claim does not assert that Defendant actively or affirmatively defrauded the public in general of Plaintiff in particular. The rule of specifically pleading how, when, where, to whom and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356 at 1384.)Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action fails as Plaintiff has (1) failed to allege a duty to disclose; (2) failed to plead the defect Defendant allegedly concealed; and (3) failed to plead fraud with the requisite specificity.Failure to Allege a Duty to DiscloseThe duty to disclose arises in four ways: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff, (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of materialfacts not known to the plaintiff, (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.)Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s fraud claim fails because Plaintiff does not allege a transactional relationship between Defendant and Plaintiff or other circumstances that would give rise to a duty to disclose. Defendant relies on Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276 (“Bigler-Engler”), as the basis for its argument that Plaintiff cannot establish the requisite transaction or relationship with Defendant to support a claim of fraud. The Bigler-Engler Court explained that a duty to disclose facts “arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as ‘“seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement[]”’” and, in the absence of a fiduciary relationship, a fraudulent omission case may be grounded on one party's exclusive knowledge of material facts, active concealment of material facts or suppression of material facts in the context of a partial disclosure, but only where the parties share some sort of relationship in which a duty to disclose may arise. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311 [citing to Shin v. Kong (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 498, 509].) The Bigler-Engler Court goes further to state that “Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.” (Id. at 312.)In support of its positions, Plaintiff relies on Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844. However, Plaintiff’s reliance on Dhital presents two separate issues. First, the California Supreme Court granted the petition to review Dhital, and Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(e)(1), provides: “Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court’s opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion of a Court of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited for potentially persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal opinion must also note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the Supreme Court.” Further, Dhital found allegations that the manufacturer’s dealership was its agent for purposes of the sale were sufficient to support a duty to disclose. Plaintiff’s reliance on Dhital is unavailing as Plaintiff does not point to such an allegation in the FAC.Because the complaint in this case fails to contain allegations concerning the existence of either a fiduciary duty or a transactional relationship between the parties — which in turn may support the existence of a duty to disclose — a fraudulent concealment claim has not been adequately alleged. The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED. This may be a defect that can be corrected by amendment, however, and therefore LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED.Motion to Strike DiscussionDefendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages in the Prayer for Relief (Compl., at 16:24) on the grounds that punitive damages are unavailable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. The Court agrees. Defendant's Motion to Strike is granted and item “e” in the Prayer for Relief, line 24, p. 16, is ordered stricken.Tentative RulingThe demurrer to the 5th cause of action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.Defendant's Motion to Strike is also granted. Item “e” in the Prayer for Relief, line 24, p. 16, is ordered stricken