 Case Number:  23TRCV02149    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendant City of Los AngelesResponding Party: Plaitniff Kristine Lopez ParksMotion for Order for Undertaking Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1030The court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.RULINGThe motion for undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1030 is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDOn July 3, 2023, plaintiff Kristine Lopez Parks (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against defendants Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), State of California, and California Department of Transportation, arising from an incident where Plaintiff fell while riding an escalator when it malfunctioned. The Complaint alleges the sole cause of action premises liability – dangerous condition of public property.On November 6, 2023, City filed its answer to the Complaint.On December 1, 2023, the People of the Statement of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation (erroneously sued as “State of California” and “California Department of Transportation”) filed its answer to the Complaint.On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the People of the Statement of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation from this action.On April 9, 2024, City filed the instant motion for order for undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1030. On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. Thereafter, on May 7, 2024, City filed its reply.LEGAL STANDARD“When the plaintiff in an action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a foreign corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (a).) The plaintiff is not required to file an undertaking unless “there is a reasonable possibility that the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).) The defendant is not required to show that there is no possibility that the plaintiff can prevail at trial, but rather must demonstrate only that it is reasonably possible that the defendant will prevail. (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432-1433.) The defendant must also submit an affidavit stating the nature and amount of costs and attorney’s fees the defendant has incurred, and expects to incur throughout the remainder of the proceedings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).)If the court grants the motion and the plaintiff fails to file the undertaking within the time allowed, the court must dismiss the plaintiff’s action or special proceeding as to the defendant in whose favor the order requiring the undertaking was made. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (d).)DISCUSSIONCity moves for the order requiring Plaintiff to post an undertaking in the amount of $72,500 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1030.Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiff is a resident of New Mexico. (Rosenthal Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B, Plaintiff’s Response to Form Interrogatories, No. 2.5.Plaintiff’s complaint states that Plaintiff was injured because “a defective, cracked, broken and/or deteriorated escalator was allowed to exist and be left in disrepair” and that as “plaintiff was ascending on the escalator, suddenly and without warning, the escalator malfunctioned [which] caused Plaintiff to lose his (sic) balance and fall and sustain injuries and damages.” (Compl. p. 7.)In its motion, Defendant provides evidence that the escalator was regularly maintained and inspected and that there were no reports of “malfunctions, mechanical issues, or erratic behavior” of the escalator in question prior to the incident. (Andrade Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant also provides evidence of Plaintiff’s contemporary statement to the police, wherein she stated that she “arrived on a Southwest flight, grabbed her two bags and proceeded to the up escalator from baggage…she walked onto the escalator while pulling her luggage behind her; at about the halfway point, her luggage seemed to get stuck [and] pulled her causing her to loose (sic) her balance and (illegible).” (Sanatana Decl., Exh. A, p.2.) Defendant’s attorney expects to incur various recoverable expenses, including: 1) Appearance Fees ($500); 2) Transcription Services: ($5,000); 3) Expert Fees ($50,000); 4) Independent Medical Exam ($5,000); 5) Subpoena Service Fees ($3,500); 6) Court Reporter Fees ($4,000); 7) Witness Fees ($2500); and, 8) Jury Fees ($1,000). Therefore, Defendant is seeking an undertaking by plaintiff in the amount of $72,500.In her opposition, Plaintiff asserts that she was handicapped at the time of the incident and was directed to the escalator by an airport employee when an elevator was available. The court finds that this assertion is contrary to the assertions in the complaint and in the various discovery responses provided to the Defendant. Therefore, the court disregards Plaintiff’s declaration as to her being handicapped and seeking wheelchair assistance.Given the evidence presented by the parties, the court finds that Defendant has shown “it is reasonably possible it will prevail at trial.” The court also finds that the requested undertaking is reasonable considering the technical expertise required at trial to provide evidence as to escalator maintenance as well as medical expertise required at trial to refute Plaintiff’s assertion of damages. Therefore, Defendant’s demand for an undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1030 is well taken.Next the court addresses Plaintiff’s assertion that she is indigent and unable to post a bond for the undertaking. In support of this assertion, Plaintiff states: “I am in a dire financialsituation at this time and not only am I unemployed and my sole income source is from the government (Social Security Benefits), but my bank account balance is in negative. Attached hereto as Exhibit “A” is a true and correct copy of my receipt evidencing a $-157.92 balance in the account.” (Parks Decl. ¶ 12.) Exhibit “A” is a photograph of a printed receipt with the words “Total,” “Cash,” and “Change Due” on separate lines each followed by: “0.00.” Below those entries is the typed text: “Cancel Account – Withdraw failed: Transaction Canceled.” Below that typed text is a handwritten entry: “(-157.92)”. Under that handwritten entry is the typed text: “We offer more than check cashing” with a variety of services described. Notably, a checking or savings account is not one of the services listed.The court notes that no fee waiver was requested by plaintiff. The court finds the affidavit submitted by Plaintiff to be insufficient to determine that Plaintiff is indigent and unable to obtain a bond. Therefore, the court declines to exercise its discretion under Section 995.240 to waive an otherwise valid request for undertaking.Accordingly, the motion for order for undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1030 is granted.Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.