  Case Number:  22STCV20977    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Previous proceedings 
On
June 28, 2022, Plaintiff Marie Benson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Two Eleven Spalding Condominium Association (“Defendant”) and Does
1-100 for premises liability and general negligence. 
On
December 22, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
December 3, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel Lyfe Law, LLP’s motion
to be relieved as counsel. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 6, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On
September 30, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint.  The motion was set for
hearing on December 4, 2024.  Plaintiff
did not file an opposition.  The Court
continued the hearing to January 16, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendant
asks the Court to dismiss the complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may in its discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant
to this article on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so
appears to the court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.410, subd. (a).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.420 provides in part: 
“(a) The court may not dismiss an action pursuant to
this article for delay in prosecution except after one of the following
conditions has occurred: 
                                   * * *
 “(2) The action is not brought to trial within the
following times: 
* * *
“(B) Two years after the action is commenced against
the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule adopted pursuant to Section
583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the condition of the court
calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of litigation or the
administration of justice.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.420,
subd. (a)(2)(B).) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1340(a), provides: 
“The court on its own motion or on motion of the
defendant may dismiss an action under Code of Civil Procedure sections
583.410-583.430 for delay in prosecution if the action has not been brought to
trial or conditionally settled within two years after the action was commenced
against the defendant.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1340(a).) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1342, provides in part: 
“(a) A party seeking dismissal of a case under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 583.410-583.430 must serve and file a notice of motion
at least 45 days before the date set for hearing of the motion. The party may,
with the memorandum, serve and file a declaration stating facts in support of
the motion. The filing of the notice of motion must not preclude the opposing
party from further prosecution of the case to bring it to trial. 
                           * * *
 “(e) In ruling on the motion, the court must consider
all matters relevant to a proper determination of the motion, including: 
“(1)  The
court's file in the case and the declarations and supporting data submitted by
the parties and, where applicable, the availability of the moving party and
other essential parties for service of process; 
“(2)  The
diligence in seeking to effect service of process; 
“(3)  The extent
to which the parties engaged in any settlement negotiations or discussions; 
“(4)  The
diligence of the parties in pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceedings,
including any extraordinary relief sought by either party; 
“(5)  The nature
and complexity of the case; 
“(6)  The law
applicable to the case, including the pendency of other litigation under a
common set of facts or determinative of the legal or factual issues in the
case; 
“(7)  The nature
of any extensions of time or other delay attributable to either party; 
“(8)  The
condition of the court's calendar and the availability of an earlier trial date
if the matter was ready for trial; 
“(9)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by dismissal or trial of the case; and 
“(10)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to a fair determination of the issue. 
“The court must be guided by the policies set forth in
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.130.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1342(a),
(e).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.130 provides: 
“It is the policy of the state that a plaintiff shall
proceed with reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an action but that all
parties shall cooperate in bringing the action to trial or other disposition.
Except as otherwise provided by statute or by rule of court adopted pursuant to
statute, the policy favoring the right of parties to make stipulations in their
own interests and the policy favoring trial or other disposition of an action
on the merits are generally to be preferred over the policy that requires
dismissal for failure to proceed with reasonable diligence in the prosecution
of an action in construing the provisions of this chapter.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.130.) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
asks the Court to dismiss the action because Plaintiff passed away on January 1,
2024 and Plaintiff’s previous counsel reported that they could not find a
personal representative to litigate the case.  Defendant asserts two legal grounds for
dismissal: (1) the court’s inherent authority and (2) discretionary dismissal
for delay in prosecution. 
1.    Inherent authority 
“[T]rial
courts possess only a narrow inherent authority to dismiss claims based on
limited circumstances . . . (e.g., cases involving a failure to prosecute,
frivolous claims, or egregious misconduct).” 
(Estrada v. Royalty Carpet Mills, Inc. (2024) 15 Cal.5th 582, 602.)  “Exercise of this power has generally been
confined to ‘sham’ actions, or cases involving prejudicial delay in prosecution
for less than the statutory periods, or for egregious conduct.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 11:49, p. 11-43 (Cal. Practice
Guide).)  “Two significant factors in
exercising this discretionary power are: (a) whether the plaintiff’s conduct
was ‘severe and deliberate’; and (b) whether alternatives less severe than
dismissal are available to remedy the situation.”  (Id., ¶ 11:280.9,
p. 11-109.)  
Defendant
concedes that Plaintiff did not engage in severe or deliberate misconduct or
file a frivolous lawsuit.  Nonetheless,
Defendant asserts that, in the absence of a personal representative, Plaintiff
and her estate cannot prosecute the case or obtain a judgment against Defendant.  While this appears to be true, Defendant has
not shown how the lack of a successor-in-interest or personal representative
for the deceased Plaintiff provides a legal basis for dismissing the case under
the Court’s inherent authority. 
2.    Discretionary dismissal for delay in prosecution 
Defendant
also asks the Court to dismiss the complaint based on delay in prosecution,
arguing that “[t]he discretionary power to dismiss has been affirmed on a
showing of prejudicial delay in prosecution for less than the statutory periods
for dismissal.”  (Motion p. 6.) The Court has considered the factors listed
in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1342 (e), and the policies set forth in
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.130. 
Based on these considerations, the Court exercises its discretion to
dismiss the complaint without prejudice for delay in prosecution under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 583.410-583.430.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 11:190.2, p. 11-84 [discretionary dismissal
for delay in prosecution is without prejudice].)  
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Two Eleven Spalding Condominium Association’s motion to dismiss
Plaintiff Marie Benson’s complaint.  The
Court dismisses the complaint under Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410-583.430
without prejudice. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
Moving party is ordered to file the proof of
service of this ruling with the Court within five days.