  Case Number:  20SMCV00739    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Tizabgar, et
al., v. Abrahams, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00739
MOTION:                  Motion
to Bifurcate
HEARING DATE:   1/17/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby [. . .] make an order [. . .]
that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any
other issue or any part thereof in the case [. . .]¿ The court, on its own
motion, may make such an order at any time. [. . .]”¿ (CCP § 598.) “The court,
in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials
will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any
cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or
of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues,
preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute
of this state or of the United States.”¿ (CCP § 1048(b).)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Keith and Stacey Abrahams, individually and
trustees of the Abrahams Living Trust, move to bifurcate the equitable issues
from the legal issues at trial and try the equitable issues first. Plaintiffs
do not oppose this motion.
 
Defendants claim that judicial economy and the interest
of justice warrant severing/bifurcating and trying the equitable issues in this
case first. They argue that the case presents two equitable issues: whether the
express easement in Defendants’ deed allows the Spa and Planter to remain, or
if an equitable easement should be granted. Defendants argue that the
resolution of these equitable issues may obviate the need for a jury
determination on Tizabgars’ trespass, nuisance, or ejectment causes of action.
 
Indeed, the quiet title and equitable easement
issues are issues for the Court to determine. (Caira v. Offner (2005) 126
Cal. App. 4th 12, 25.) When equitable and legal issues are joined in the same
action, the parties are entitled to a jury trial on the legal issues. (Hoopes
v Dolan (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 146, 156.) In such a case, the Court may bifurcate
the action to try the equitable issues first without a jury. If the judge's
determination of those issues also resolves the legal issues, nothing further
remains to be tried by a jury. (Id. at 157–158 [it may be better
practice for judge to determine equitable issues before submitting legal issues
to jury, to promote judicial economy, and is common practice in California
courts].) Conversely, if the legal issues are tried before the equitable
issues, the jury's determination of the legal issues may foreclose a trial of
the equitable issues. (Id. at 157.)
 
The title/equitable easement issues are central to the
dispute herein. Resolving the quiet title or equitable easement causes of
action in favor of Defendants would likely resolve legal questions in the
trespass, nuisance and ejectment causes of action. For instance, if the Court
agrees that Defendants’ hardscape and planter surrounding their spa are
allowable under the express or equitable easement, then there would be no need
to empanel a jury on the trespass claims, as there could be no trespass from
those encroachments. Considering this, it would be logical to resolve the title/easement
issues first, since the trespass claims flow from the property rights
determined by the Court. Additionally, the specific facts relevant to the
equitable and legal issues are not so-intertwined that bifurcating would risk extensive
duplication of the presentation of evidence to the jury. Of course, there would
be some duplication since the nature of the encroachment would be relevant to
both determinations. That said, the Court’s determination of these issues
before the jury is empaneled may expedite the trial and avoid the unnecessary
presentation of evidence.
 
Accordingly, the motion to bifurcate is GRANTED.