 Case Number:  21STCV37589    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Approve Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim and Disposition of
Proceeds for a Person with Disability
 
Moving Party: Petitioner
Jung Hee Choi (deceased)
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Request to
Substitute Elissa Choi for Jung Hee Choi (deceased) as Petitioner for Approval
of Disposition of Proceeds for Sharon Choi into a Pooled Special Needs Trust
 
Moving Party: Petitioner
Elissa Choi 
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
 
The Request to Substitute is DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
The Motion for Approval of Compromise is
DENIED without prejudice. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October
13, 2021, Plaintiff Sharon Choi filed her Complaint against Defendant Normandie
Wilshire Retirement Hotel, Inc. on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s
ongoing rehabilitative care with Defendant. The Complaint was filed on behalf
of Plaintiff by Jung Hee Choi, who had durable power of attorney for Plaintiff.

 
On December
8, 2021, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (FAC). The FAC was filed
on behalf of Plaintiff by Jung Hee Choi, who had durable power of attorney for
Plaintiff.
 
On January
13, 2022, pursuant to the Parties’ Stipulation, the Court ordered that this
case be stayed pending the completion of binding arbitration and that this case
be dismissed after the binding arbitration has been completed. 
 
On January
22, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Motion to Approve Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim and Disposition of Proceeds for a Person with Disability
(“Motion for Approval of Compromise”). The Motion was filed on behalf of
Plaintiff by Jung Hee Choi, who had durable power of attorney for Plaintiff. 
 
On February
7, 2024, Elissa Choi filed Request to Substitute Elissa Choi for Jung Hee Choi
(deceased) as Petitioner for Approval of Disposition of Proceeds for Sharon
Choi into a Pooled Special Needs Trust (“Request to Substitute”). Elissa Choi
concurrently filed Declaration of Elissa Choi in support of the Request to
Substitute. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Request to Substitute
 
A. 
    Legal Standard
 
“The person who seeks to commence an
action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the
decedent’s successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an
affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this
state stating all of the following:
 
“(1) The decedent’s name.
 
“(2) The date and place of the decedent’s death.
 
“(3) ‘No proceeding is now pending in California for administration
of the decedent’s estate.’
 
“(4) If the decedent’s estate was administered, a
copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of
action to the successor in interest.
 
“(5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with
facts in support thereof:
 
“(A) ‘The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.’
 
“(B) ‘The affiant or declarant is authorized to act
on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11
of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s
interest in the action or proceeding.’
 
“(6) ‘No other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding.’
 
“(7) ‘The affiant or declarant affirms or declares
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.’
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)
 
“Where more than one person executes the
affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements required by
subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (b).)
 
“A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Elissa Choi requests to be substituted for
Jung Hee Choi as the petitioner for approval of disposition of Plaintiff’s
proceeds into a pooled special needs trust. (Request to Substitute, p. 2:6–13.)
The reason for this request is that Jung Hee Choi, who filed the FAC on behalf
of Plaintiff with a durable power of attorney for her, allegedly passed away on
February 5, 2024 from an apparent heart attack. (Id. at p. 2:3–5.)
 
The legal authority for this request is
allegedly based on Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32. (Request to
Substitute, p. 2:13–15.)
 
There appear to be two issues with the
Request to Substitute. 
 
First, the declaration does not seem to
comply with certain portions of Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32,
subdivision (a), that require specific items be declared. 
 
Second, Elissa Choi declares that no death
certificate has yet been issued. (Decl. Choi, ¶ 13.) But Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.32 requires that “[a] certified copy of the decedent’s
death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).) 
 
        Without the specific
requirements of the statute being met, the Court lacks jurisdiction at this
time to grant the relief requested. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Request to Substitute is DENIED without
prejudice. 
 
II.      
Motion for Approval of Compromise
 
A. 
    Legal Standard
 
“The guardian or
conservator of the estate or guardian ad litem so appearing for any minor,
person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or person for whom a
conservator has been appointed shall have power, with the approval of the court
in which the action or proceeding is pending, to compromise the same, to agree
to the order or judgment to be entered therein for or against the ward or
conservatee, and to satisfy any judgment or order in favor of the ward or
conservatee or release or discharge any claim of the ward or conservatee
pursuant to that compromise. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(3).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise or covenant not to sue
under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must comply with rules 7.950 or
7.950.5, 7.951, and 7.952.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384(a).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a
covenant not to sue or enforce judgment on, a minor's disputed claim; a
compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to which a minor or
person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a
judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate Code sections 3500
and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be verified by the
petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that has any
bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or
disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the petition must be submitted
on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form
MC-350).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)
 
“In all cases under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 or
Probate Code sections 3600-3601, unless the court has approved the fee
agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(1).)
 
“The court must give consideration to the terms of any
representation agreement made between the attorney and the representative of
the minor or person with a disability and must evaluate the agreement based on
the facts and circumstances existing at the time the agreement was made, except
where the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability contemplated that the attorney's fee would be affected by later
events.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(2).)
 
“A petition requesting court approval and allowance of an
attorney's fee under (a) must include a declaration from the attorney that
addresses the factors listed in (b) that are applicable to the matter before
the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(c).)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Jung Hee Choi, who had durable power of
attorney for Plaintiff, moved on behalf of Plaintiff for approval of a
compromise in this matter. 
 
However, it appears that Jung Hee Choi has
since passed away. The Court has not yet been presented with sufficient
evidence regarding who, if anyone, may step into his shoes for his Motion for
Approval of Compromise. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion for Approval of Compromise is
DENIED without prejudice. 
 