 Case Number:  23STCV21000    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Enter Default of Defendant and
to Strike Answer to the Complaint
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
George W. Angel
Resp. Party:    Defendant Genevieve Angel Dial
 
 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against
Defendant Genevieve Angel Dial on causes of action of malicious prosecution,
abuse of process, slander, intentional infliction of emotional distress,
negligence per se, and negligence. 
 
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed Judicial Council
Form CIV-100, Request for Entry of Default. The Clerk’s Office did not enter
default, reasoning that proof of service of statement of damages was required. 
 
On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Judicial Council
Form CIV-050, Statement of Damages. 
 
On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed another Judicial
Council Form CIV-100, Request for Entry of Default. The Clerk’s Office did not
enter default, reasoning that the request was premature because the proof of
service for the statement of damages was filed on December 5, 2023 and thus the
first date default could be entered was January 4, 2024. 
 
On December 21, 2023, Defendant filed her Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
On December 22, 2023, the Court found related cases
23STCV20996, 23STCV20997, 23STCV20999, and 23STCV21000. The Court designated
23STCV20996 as the lead case. 
 
On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Motion to Enter
Default of Defendant and to Strike Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed her Opposition to
the Motion. 
 
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Reply in support
of the Motion. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“Judgment may be had, if the defendant fails
to answer the complaint, as follows: (a) In an action arising upon contract or
judgment for the recovery of money or damages only, if the defendant has, or if
more than one defendant, if any of the defendants have, been served, other than
by publication, and no answer, demurrer, notice of motion to strike of the
character specified in subdivision (f), notice of motion to transfer pursuant
to Section 396b, notice of motion to dismiss pursuant to Article 2 (commencing
with Section 583.210) of Chapter 1.5 of Title 8, notice of motion to quash
service of summons or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant to Section 418.10,
or notice of the filing of a petition for writ of mandate as provided in
Section 418.10 has been filed with the clerk of the court within the time
specified in the summons, or within further time as may be allowed, the clerk,
upon written application of the plaintiff, and proof of the service of summons,
shall enter the default of the defendant or defendants, so served, and
immediately thereafter enter judgment for the principal amount demanded in the
complaint, in the statement required by Section 425.11, or in the statement
provided for in Section 425.115, or a lesser amount if credit has been
acknowledged, together with interest allowed by law or in accordance with the
terms of the contract, and the costs against the defendant, or defendants, or
against one or more of the defendants. If, by rule of court, a schedule of
attorneys’ fees to be allowed has been adopted, the clerk may include in the
judgment attorneys’ fees in accordance with the schedule (1) if the contract
provides that attorneys’ fees shall be allowed in the event of an action
thereon, or (2) if the action is one in which the plaintiff is entitled by
statute to recover attorneys’ fees in addition to money or damages. The
plaintiff shall file a written request at the time of application for entry of
the default of the defendant or defendants, to have attorneys’ fees fixed by
the court, whereupon, after the entry of the default, the court shall hear the
application for determination of the attorneys’ fees and shall render judgment
for the attorneys’ fees and for the other relief demanded in the complaint, in
the statement required by Section 425.11, or in the statement provided for in
Section 425.115, or a lesser amount if credit has been acknowledged, and the
costs against the defendant, or defendants, or against one or more of the
defendants.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 585, subd. (a).)
 
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant
to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to enter default on Defendant, citing a
variety of sections of the Code of the Civil Procedure and appellate opinions.
(For example, Code Civ. Proc., §§ 116.725; 412.20, subd. (a)(3); 473; 585,
subd. (a); 1167, subd. (a).) Plaintiff further moves the Court to strike
Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint. 
 
The Court declines to either enter default of strike Defendant’s
answer.
 
First and foremost, the Court is unaware of any mistake made by the
Clerk’s Office that should led to their rejecting Plaintiff’s request to enter default
on Defendant on December 5, 2023.
 
“When a complaint
is filed in an action to recover damages for personal injury or wrongful death,
the defendant may at any time request a statement setting forth the nature and
amount of damages being sought. The request shall be served upon the plaintiff,
who shall serve a responsive statement as to the damages within 15 days. In the
event that a response is not served, the defendant, on notice to the plaintiff,
may petition the court in which the action is pending to order the plaintiff to
serve a responsive statement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.11, subd. (b).)
 
“The statement referred to in subdivision
(b) shall be served in the following manner: (1) If a party has not appeared in
the action, the statement shall be served in the same manner as a summons.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.11, subd. (d)(1).)
 
“Except as otherwise required by statute,
a summons shall be directed to the defendant, signed by the clerk and issued
under the seal of the court in which the action is pending, and it shall
contain: . . . (6) The following introductory legend at the top of the summons
above all other matter, in boldface type, in English and Spanish: ‘Notice! You
have been sued. The court may decide against you without your being heard
unless you respond within 30 days. Read information below.’” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 412.20, subd. (a)(6).)
 
In order to obtain damages on a default
judgment, plaintiffs must first list a specific amount of damages in their
pleading. When no specific amount of damages is listed in the pleading, the
pleading must be amended or a statement of damages must be filed. 
 
Here, Plaintiff did not list any specific
amount of damages in his pleading. Thus, the Clerk’s Office correctly rejected
his request for entry of default on November 27, 2023. When Plaintiff attempted
to enter default again on the same day that he filed his Statement of Damages,
the Clerk’s Office correctly rejected his request for entry of default. By
requirement of statute, when the opposing party has not appeared in the action,
a statement of damages must be served in the same way as a summons — i.e., with
thirty days of notice before default can be entered. 
 
“We cannot allow a default judgment to be
entered against defendants without proper notice to them of the amount of
damages sought. A defendant is entitled to actual notice of the liability to
which he or she may be subjected, a reasonable period of time before default
may be entered.” (Schwab v. Rondel Homes, Inc. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 428,
435; accord Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861, 870 [“As is relevant
here, the plaintiff must serve such a statement of damages ‘before a default
may be taken.’”].)
 
Even if less than thirty days of notice were
allowed, it would not be reasonable to find that there had been sufficient
notice in this situation. Had the Clerk’s Office entered default, the
simultaneous filing of the statement of damages and the request for entry of
default would have resulted in no notice to Defendant whatsoever of the amount
of liability she faced. 
 
Second, even if the Clerk’s Office had
entered default, Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint and Opposition to this
Motion indicate to the Court that such a default might well be vacated and/or
set aside. 
 
Given that there is no default and that
it would be inappropriate to enter default on Defendant, it would also be
inappropriate to strike Defendant’s Answer without the entry of default. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 
 