..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV03816
Plaintiff's Name: Hamza Aouad, Akram Dahba
Defendant's Name: Christopher Adam Roundtree
People/Names: Hamza Aouad, Akram Dahba, Christopher Adam Roundtree
Company/Names: None
Places: Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205, National Blvd.
Dates: October 18, 2024, October 21, 2024
Events: Motor vehicle v. motorcycle accident, deposition
Money: None
Intentions: Defendant seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Aouad
Facts: Plaintiff Aouad and Akram Dahba allegedly made an "unprotected left turn" in front of Defendant, causing the accident
Disputes: Defendant claims that the facts giving rise to the cross-complaint were only recently uncovered during Plaintiffs' depositions
Acts: Defendant filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
Agreements: None
Laws: Code Civ. Proc. ยง428.50, Code Civ. Proc. ยง426.30, Code Civ. Proc. ยง426.10, Code Civ. Proc. ยง426.50
Case Citations: Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald, AL Holding Co. v. O'Brien & Hicks, Inc., Sidney v. Sup. Ct., Gherman v. Colburn, Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure
Roles: Judge Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Significant Statements: The Court grants Defendant's motion for leave to file a cross-complaint, finding that the cross-complaint is compulsory and that there is no evidence of bad faith.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge is considering a motion by the defendant, Christopher Adam Roundtree, to file a cross-complaint against plaintiff Hamza Aouad. The cross-complaint alleges negligence, indemnification, and declaratory relief. The judge finds that the cross-complaint is compulsory because it relates to the same accident that is the subject of the original complaint. The judge grants the motion, finding that there is no evidence of bad faith by the defendant. The defendant claims that the facts giving rise to the cross-complaint were only recently uncovered during the plaintiffs' depositions, and the judge accepts this as a sufficient reason to grant the motion. The judge notes that the requirement of "good faith" gives courts some discretion to deny a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-claim, but in this case, there is no evidence of bad faith. The judge concludes that the cross-complaint should be allowed to proceed.
