 Case Number:  23STCV19255    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV19255




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
  Set One
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
  One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Perfect Parking, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Perfect Parking, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel
Plaintiff Andres Aguilar-Maldonado to provide further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One. No opposition
has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
 
Here, after several extensions, Plaintiff served objections
only to Form and Special Interrogatories, Set One, on April 23, 2024. (Donavan
Decl. ¶ 5.) The parties met and conferred and agreed to additional extensions,
including an extension of time to file motions to compel further responses. (Id.
¶ 8.) The parties participated in an informal discovery conference, wherein
counsel for Plaintiff notified Defendant that substantive responses were not
served due to the inability to confer with Plaintiff. The following day,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed and served a motion to be relieved. No opposition has
been filed to the motions to compel further responses and therefore no argument
is presented regarding the objections. Accordingly, the Court grants the
motions to compel further responses to the interrogatories.
 
Defendant seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,698.50,
representing 4.9 hours for each motion. Although Defendant requests additional
monetary sanctions for the anticipated time to file a reply and attend a
hearing, no opposition has been filed. Moreover, the amount requested is
excessive given the nature of the motions. Accordingly, the Court awards
monetary sanctions in the amount of $430 for each motion (2 hours of attorney
time at $215 per hour).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motions to compel further responses.
Said responses are due within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff shall pay $860 in monetary sanctions to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 