 Case Number:  22STCV23955    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


August 15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV23955




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant City of Monrovia




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Raquel
  Boyadjian  



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.     Declaration of April M. Mitchell 
4.     Request for Judicial Notice
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition; Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts; Plaintiff’s Objections; Declaration of George
Chapjian, Declaration of Chris Kasian; Plaintiff's Request for Judicial Notice
2.     Declaration of George Chapjian in Response to
Defendant City of Monrovia’s Objections
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.     Reply
2.     Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Facts 
3.     Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
November 16, 2022, Plaintiff Raquel
Boyadjian (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants City of Monrovia and Does 1 to 10. Against Moving Defendant City of Monrovia
(“Defendant”), Plaintiff asserts a cause of action for dangerous condition of
public property under Government Code section 835. Plaintiff alleges that on
November 18, 2020, she was jogging on a walking path in a park at 620 S
Shamrock Ave, Monrovia, when he tripped on a pothole and fell. (FAC ¶ 8-9.) 
 
            Defendant
now moves for summary judgment, arguing the trail immunity under Government
Code section 831.4, applies. 
 
            Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies. 
            
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The Court grants Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint, the first amended
complaint, and Monrovia Municipal Code sections 12.32.010 and 12.32.020.
 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of the google earth view of the Recreation Park and
the “Citywide Park Master Plan” but considers it as evidence filed in support
and relied upon by George Chapjian.  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff filed one document in
opposition; on page 15 of the pdf is a document entitled Plaintiff’s
“Objections to the Defendant City of Monrovia’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Facts”, which the Court notes are not objections filed separately,
nor are otherwise in compliance with California Rule of Court 3.1354(b), in
particular by not stating the grounds for each objection. Accordingly, the
Court declines to rule on the “objections.”
 
The Court declines to rule on
Defendant's objections as they have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he party moving
for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is
then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action,
the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion
must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
            “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 831.4 provides immunity to public
entities for injuries caused by the condition of walkways if they constitute a
“trail” within the meaning of the statute.¿ Section 831.4 provides, in relevant
part, as follows:¿ 
 
“A public entity . . . is not liable for an injury caused
by a condition of:¿ 
¿ 
(a) Any unpaved road which
provides access to fishing, hunting, camping, hiking, riding, including animal
and all types of vehicular riding, water sports, recreational or scenic areas
and which is not a (1) city street or highway or (2) county, state or federal
highway or (3) public street or highway of a joint highway district, boulevard
district, bridge and highway district or similar district formed for the
improvement or building of public streets or highways.
 
(b) Any trail used for the above
purposes.
 
(c) Any paved trail, walkway,
path, or sidewalk on an easement of way which has been granted to a public
entity, which easement provides access to any unimproved property, so long as
such public entity shall reasonably attempt to provide adequate warnings of the
existence of any condition of the paved trail, walkway, path, or sidewalk which
constitutes a hazard to health or safety. . . .”
¿ 
Trail immunity “extends to trails that are used for the
activities listed in subdivision (a), and to trails that are used solely for
access to such activities . . . whether or not the trail is paved.”¿ (Amberger-Warren
v. City of Piedmont (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1074, 1078.)¿ In considering
whether trail immunity applies, the Court must consider (1) whether the alleged
accident occurred on a trail under the accepted definitions of a trail and (2)
whether the injury was caused by conditions of the trail.¿ (See id. at
1078, 1083.)¿ 
 
“Whether property qualifies for immunity ‘depends on a
number of considerations, including accepted definitions of [the word trail],
the purpose for which the property is designed and used, and the purpose of the
immunity statute.”¿(Garcia v. American Golf Corp. (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
532, 540 [citing Amberger-Warren].)¿ “The plainly
stated purpose of immunity for recreational activities on public land is to
encourage public entities to open their property for public recreational use,
because ‘the burden and expense of putting such property in a safe condition
and the expense of defending claims for injuries would probably cause many
public entities to close such areas to public use.’ [Citations]” (Armenio v.
County of San Mateo (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 413, 417.) 
 
“[I]t is well established that trail immunity covers
negligent maintenance of a trail, so the defendant could not be liable for the
debris on the trail.”¿ (Arvizu v. City of Pasadena (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th
760, 768; see also Leyva v. Crockett & Co, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
1105, 1110-1111 [holding that trail immunity must extend to claims arising from
the design of the trail, as well as its maintenance, and that location, no less
than design must be immunized for the same reasons].) ¿¿¿ 
 
“The purpose for which a trail is used is ordinarily viewed
as a factual issue, but it becomes a question of a law if only one conclusion
is possible.”¿ (Armenio v. County of San Mateo (1994) 28 Cal. App. 4th
413, 418.) 
 
Here, Defendant sets forth the following facts:
 
-       
On November 18, 2020, Plaintiff took her son to
Recreation Park to play. (UMF 1.) 
-       
While Plaintiff’s son was playing, Plaintiff went for a
jog on the path within Recreation Park. (UMF 2.) 
-       
While jogging on the path in Recreational Park, the
conditions of the trail caused Plaintiff to trip and fall. (UMF 3.) 
-       
Recreation Park was designed for recreational purposes.
(UMF 6.) 
-       
Recreation Park was used for recreational purposes.
(UMF 7.) 
 
Defendant
meets its burden to show that Plaintiff’s injury took place on a trail at the
subject park, which is a recreational area, and the injury was caused by a
condition of the trail. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish
a triable issue of fact. 
 
Plaintiff
offers the following facts: 
 
-       
Park is open to the general public. (PAMF 2.) 
-       
Park contains recreational activity spaces, pathways,
trails, walkways, roads, passageways, and streets. (PAMF 3.) 
-       
The asphalt pedestrian path/walkway connects specific
parts of the park to different streets. (PAMF 4.) 
-       
The surface of the pedestrian path/walkway is different
than other paths that lead to the recreational activities in the park. (PAMF
5.) 
-       
The specific path in question is constructed of asphalt
to allow automobiles, A TV's and other vehicles to travel through. (PAMF 7.)[1] 
-       
The entrance of the specific path in question, is
sloped similar to a driveway/curb ramp and is wide enough for vehicles to fit
and drive over. (PAMF 8.) 
-       
The paths that lead to the picnic areas are leveled
dirt paths, the path that leads to the tennis and basketball courts are smooth
and leveled concrete path, and the paths that leads to the basketball courts is
a smooth and leveled brick path. (PAMF 9.) 
 
First,
Plaintiff argues trail immunity does not apply because Defendant’s Master Plan
of the park does not specifically characterize the route as a “trail.” (Opp.,
7.) However, as discussed above, courts rely on a multi-factor analysis to
determine whether a path qualifies as a “trail”, regardless of the actual name
it is given.[2] Plaintiff’s
evidence, including that the walkway connects specific parts of the park to
different streets, demonstrates that it is a trail. (Amberger-Warren, supra,
143 Cal.App.4th at 1079 [“a paved pathway through a park, and a ‘path,’ .
. . is synonymous with a ‘trail.’”].) 
 
Second,
Plaintiff argues the purpose was not recreational. However, Plaintiff does not
dispute that the path is used by pedestrians to access parts of the park and
even has a sloped entrance for ADA access. (Opp., 3.) Plaintiff provides no
evidence disputing that the park itself is an area for recreational use. Instead,
Plaintiff sets forth evidence that paths leading to other areas of the park are
made of different materials and that the subject path can accommodate vehicles.[3]
However, Plaintiff sets forth no evidence establishing that it is not used
concurrently for recreational purposes or to provide access to recreational
activity. (Montenegro v. City of Bradbury (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 924,
932 [“[t]he fact that a trail has a dual use—recreational and
non-recreational—does not undermine section 831.4, subdivision (b) immunity.”].)
 
 
Third,
Plaintiff argues the purpose of the immunity was not to provide blanket
liability for all injuries in a park walkway. However, the explicit purpose of
the statute is to encourage public entities to open their property for public
use since the cost of litigation could cause it to be closed. (See Montenegro,
supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at 932.)  
 
            Therefore, considering
all evidence and reasonable inferences in the light most favorable to
Plaintiff, the Court finds the absence of a triable issue of fact. As a result,
the motion for summary judgment is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant City of Monrovia’s motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file and serve a proposed judgment within
10 days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of
service of such.
 


