  Case Number:  23STCV04381    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  39 Yesenia Lisseth
Franco Escalante v. Culichitown Pico Rivera, Inc., et al. 
Case No.
23STCV04381
Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            Plaintiff
Yesenia Lisseth Franco Escalante (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment discrimination
action against her employer, Culichitown Pirco Rivera, Inc. and related
entities (collectively, “Defendants”). 
Defendants move to compel arbitration. 

 
The moving party on a petition to
compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)  
 
Defendant relies on an arbitration
agreement, which has both English and Spanish versions.  (Declaration of Beverly Castro, Exhs. A &
B.)  Plaintiff signed the version in
Spanish.  (Id., Exh. A.)  The parties agreed to arbitrate “[a]ny and
all claims, controversies or disputes . . . relating to any aspect of [Plaintiff]’s
employment with [Culichitown Pico Rivera] (pre-hire through post-termination),
which [Culichitown Pico Rivera] may have against [Plaintiff], or which [Plaintiff]
may have against [Culichitown Pico Rivera] or any related entity, owner,
partner, officer, director, shareholder, employee, contractor, representative
or agent, shall be resolved through final and binding arbitration.”  (Id., Exh. B, ¶ 1.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that her claims predicated
upon allegations of sexual harassment cannot be arbitrated under the Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the “Act”).  Plaintiff also argues that the agreement is
unconscionable.  The parties delegated
these issues to the arbitrator: “[I]n the event of a dispute related to the
validity, enforceability, formation or interpretation of this Agreement . .
.  the arbitrator shall have the sole and
exclusive authority to consider and resolve the dispute.”  (Id., Exh. B.) 
Regardless, the arguments have no merit. 
The Act does not apply because Plaintiff’s claims are predicated upon allegations
before March 3, 2022.  (Complaint, ¶ 32.)  The arbitration agreement is not unconscionable.  
 
Plaintiff argues that the other Culichitown
corporate entities are not signatories to the agreement.  However, Plaintiff alleges in her complaint
that all such entities were her employers. 
Therefore, they are covered by the arbitration agreement.  The Court need not determine whether Dependable
Personnel, Inc. and Daniel Resendez are subject to the arbitration agreement because
they have not appeared in this case, and they did not seek to compel
arbitration in the motion.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
orders as follows:
 
1.         The
Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and orders that Plaintiff’s
claims against the three Culichitown corporate entities shall be resolved by
binding arbitration.  This case is stayed
only with respect to those Defendants. 
 
2.         The
Court orders Plaintiff to seek entry of default against Defendants Dependable
Personnel, Inc. and Daniel Resendez forthwith. 
The Order to Show Cause re: Dismissal for failure to seek entry of
default is advanced from July 16, 2024, to April 24, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  
 
3.         The
Court advances and vacates the post-mediation status conference, the final
status conference, and the trial dates.   
 
4.         Defendants’
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 