 Case Number:  23STCV05192    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  39 Full
Count, Inc., et al. v. LucasFilm Entertainment Company, Ltd., et al.
Case
No. 23STCV05192
 
Order
#1 of 2
Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
            Plaintiffs
Full Count, Inc. and Karyn McCarthy (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action against Defendants LucasFilm Entertainment Company Ltd., LLC (“LucasFilm”)
and Blue Stockings, Inc. (“Blue Stockings”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
asserting causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppel, and failure to pay wages
under Labor Code section 201.  Plaintiffs
allege as follows:
 
            Karyn
McCarthy is a well-known and two-time Emmy nominated producer of television
programs and motions pictures.  (First Complaint,
¶ 11.)  In February and March 2022,
Plaintiff’s agent solicited three opportunities for her to serve as executive
producer of a new television series. 
(Id., ¶ 3.)  At the end of March
2022, McCarthy declined one offer, leaving an offer from LucasFilm and an offer
from Apple TV.  (Id., ¶¶ 13-14.)  On April 5, 2022, LucasFilm confirmed to
McCarthy’s agent that it wanted her to serve as executive producer.  (Id., ¶ 16.) 
On April 7, 2022, the showrunner/director offered McCarthy the position,
and she accepted.  (Id., ¶ 17.)  The next day, on April 8, 2022, Apple TV
offered McCarthy the executive producer position on the other television show,
which she declined.  (Id., ¶¶
20-22.)  On April 11, 2022, McCarthy
reconfirmed her acceptance of the material terms of the agreement with
LucasFilm and officially commenced work. 
(Id., ¶ 23.)  About two weeks
later, on April 22, 2022, LucasFilm terminated the arrangement before the
memorandum of agreement was signed.  (Id.,
¶ 27.)  Plaintiffs allege in the pending
motion that McCarthy was replaced by Jeff King.   
 
            Plaintiffs
move to compel further responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One (“RPD”).  Specifically, Plaintiffs
seek responses from Blue Stockings to RPD Numbers 3-4, 7, 9, 14, and 21 through
28.  Plaintiffs seek responses from
Lucasfilm to RPD Numbers 3-4, 7, 9, 14, and 21 through 27.  Plaintiffs also request attorneys’ fees in
the amount of $48,720.
 
            Defendants
served verified supplemental responses on December 18, 2023.  (See Declaration of Corey G. Singers, Exhs. G
& H.)  The issues are the same for
both sets of RPDs.  The Court rules as
follows:
 
            RPD
#3 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents and communications related to the hiring process for any executive
producer position on Acolyte.”  Blue
Stockings agreed to produce all non-privileged documents and communications relating
to Plaintiff Karyn McCarthy and Jeff King’s candidacy and hiring for the time
period of January 1, 2022, to March 8, 2023. 
However, Blue Stockings will not produce certain documents until the
information is designated as “Highly Confidential” pursuant to an amended
stipulated protective order.  The time
period is sufficient.  The limitation to
Karyn McCarthy and her alleged replacement, Jeff King, is appropriate.  The “Highly Confidential—Attorneys’ Eyes
Only” designation is appropriate; Karyn McCarthy is not entitled to review Jeff
King’s information.  The Court will consider
removing this designation for any trial exhibit, which the parties may address
at the final status conference.  
 
RPD #4 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all documents and
communications by and between you and any person related to the hiring process
for any executive produced position on Acolyte.”  See RPD #3. 

 
            RPD
#7 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents and communications related to King’s candidacy or hiring for the
executive producer position on Acolyte.” 
See RPD #3.  
 
            RPD
#9 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents and communications by and between you and any person related to
King’s candidacy or hiring for the executive producer position on Acolyte.”  See RPD #3. 
 
 
            RPD
#14 – GRANTED.  Plaintiffs seek “a copy
of acolyte materials provided to McCarthy.” 
Plaintiffs define “materials” as the series overview and the season one
bible.  Blue Stockings agreed to “produce
all non-privileged communications in its possession, custody or control
relating to Blue Stockings allowing Plaintiff Karyn McCarthy to view a series
overview and a season one bible for The Acolyte on a secure, password-protected
website, for the time period of January 1, 2022 to March 8, 2023.  The motion is granted with respect to RPD #14
insofar as Defendants shall produce a copy of the series overview and season
one bible.  These documents need not be
subject to a “Highly Confidential—Attorneys’ Eyes Only” designation because it
appears Plaintiff has seen them before this litigation.  However, these documents shall be subject to
a protective order.   
 
            RPD
#21 – GRANTED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents and communications related to any payment by you to King for services
on Acolyte.”  Defendants object to this
RPD.  The Court overrules the objections
and orders Defendants to produce these documents.  However, these documents shall be subject to
a “Highly Confidential—Attorneys’ Eyes Only” designation. The Court will
consider removing this designation for any trial exhibit, which the parties may
address at the final status conference.  
 
            RPD
#22 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART.  Plaintiffs
seek “all documents and communications related to any payment by you to any
person providing executive producer services on Acolyte.”  Defendants object to this RPD.  Defendants object.  The Court sustains the objections and orders
that these documents need not be produced because the Court granted RPD #21
with one exception: Defendants shall produce all documents and communications
relating to any payment by you to Karyn McCarthy.     
 
            RPD
#23 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART.  Plaintiffs
seek “all documents related to the organizational structure of the production
of Acolyte.”  Defendants object to this
RPD.  The Court orders Defendants to
produce documents sufficient to identify the organizational structure of the
production of Acolyte between January 1, 2022, and March 8, 2023.  These documents need not be subject to a
“Highly Confidential—Attorneys’ Eyes Only” designation because it appears
Plaintiff has seen them before this litigation. 
However, these documents shall be subject to a protective order.   
 

            RPD
#24 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents related to the duties and responsibilities of the executive producer
of Acolyte.”  Blue Stockings will produce
all non-privileged communications relating to the duties and responsibilities
that were communicated to Plaintiff Karyn McCarthy about the position,
including the decision to no longer consider her for the position, for the time
period of January 1, 2022, to March 8, 2023. 
Blue Stockings will produce all documents and communications sufficient
to show the duties and responsibilities that were communicated to Jeff King
about the position for the time period of January 1, 2022, to March 8, 2023.  This response is sufficient.  
 
            RPD
#25 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART.  Plaintiffs
seek “all documents and communications related to the budget for any episodes,
seasons, or cycles of Acolyte.”  Defendants
object to this RPD.  Defendants shall
produce all documents that specifically identify Karyn McCarthy serving as an
executive producer on Acolyte.  This
shall include any documents and communications concerning the budget that
specifically identify Karyn McCarthy. 
The motion is otherwise denied.  
 
            RPD
#26 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents and communications related to revenues earned or expected to be
earned through the licensing and/or distribution of Acolyte.”  Defendants object to this RPD.  Plaintiff does not allege that her
compensation was tied to revenue, i.e., profit-sharing.  Therefore, the motion is denied.    
 
            RPD
#27 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents related to the relationship between [Blue Stockings] and Lucasfilm,
including, without limitation, all organizational charts.”  Blue Stockings will produce documents
sufficient to show the corporate relationship between Blue Stockings and
Lucasfilm for the time period of January 1, 2022, to March 8, 2023.  This is sufficient.    
 
            RPD
#28 – DENIED.  Plaintiffs seek “all
documents related to the relationship between [Blue Stockings] and any other
entity related to Lucasfilm.”  See the
supplemental response to RPD #28.  This
is sufficient.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is granted in part and denied in part.
 
            2.         Defendants shall serve supplemental
responses within thirty (30) days.  
 
            3.         The Court denies Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions (which is excessive anyway). 

 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 


 
Order
#2 of 2
Motion
for Protective Order
 
            Defendant
Blue Stockings, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed a motion for a protective order to
exclude Leslie Lindeman from Plaintiff Karyn McCarthy’s deposition.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that
Leslie Lindeman is an officer of Plaintiff Full Count, Inc. (“Full
Count”).   Defendant argues that this is not true, and
that Leslie Lindeman—who is Karyn McCarthy’s husband—should be excluded because
he is a percipient witness in this case. 
            
            On
August 10, 2023, the parties agreed to schedule Plaintiff’s deposition for
September 29, 2023.  (Declaration of
Corey G. Singer, ¶ 6.)  The night before
the deposition—September 28, 2023, at 5:00 p.m.—Plaintiff’s counsel asked that
Lindeman should be added to the list for building security.  (Id., ¶ 8.) 
Defendants’ counsel stated that Lindeman would not be permitted to
attend the deposition.  (Ibid.)  In response, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that
Lindeman is an officer of Full Count and would attend in that capacity.
 
            The
Court agrees with Plaintiffs’ counsel that the “Statement of Information” filed
with the State of California, Secretary of State did not require Full Count to
list Lindeman as an officer.  It required
Full Count to identify the Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, Chief Financial
Officer and all directors.  
 
            Nevertheless,
the Court is troubled that the only documentation of Lindeman’s purported
status as an officer is a “Written Consent of the Sole Director of Full Count,
Inc.,” dated September 29, 2023—the same date as the deposition—“confirm[ing]
Leslie Lindeman’s appointment as the Company’s Vice President since June 29,
2009.”  (Id., Exh. #1, p. 47.)  The Court is troubled that there are no prior
documents reflecting Lindeman’s status as an officer or any corporate action he
took in his capacity as an officer.
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court has no tentative order on this motion.  