 Case Number:  22STCV03228    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 26, 2022, Plaintiff Rina Ester Tolentino
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Vallarta Food Enterprises,
Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1-30 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
April 27, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
June 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
July 18, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel second sessions of the
depositions of Defendant’s employees Reyna Sillas (“Sillas”) and Mariela Reyes
(“Reyes”), to be heard on October 27, 2023. The Court continued the hearings to
January 24, 2024.  On December 6, 2023,
Defendant filed oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court compel Defendant’s employees Sillas and Reyes to appear
for second depositions and for Defendant to provide the documents requested in
the deposition notices.  Plaintiff also
requests that the Court impose sanctions on Defendant. 
Defendant
requests that the Court deny the motions and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * * 
  “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.610 provides in part: 
“(a) Once any party has taken the deposition of any
natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party who
gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant
to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent. 
“(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good cause
shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the
parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate
that a subsequent deposition be taken. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610,
subds. (a), (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Motion to
compel Sillas’s second deposition 
On January 27, 2023, Plaintiff served a deposition
notice on Defendant for the deposition of Defendant’s employee Sillas and for
production of documents.  Defendant
served objections to the request for production of documents.  Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet and confer
letter but Defendant did not respond. 
On February 27, 2023, Plaintiff deposed Sillas.
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant did not produce the incident report that Defendant’s
employee Cesia Ribera prepared after Plaintiff’s alleged fall in Defendant’s
store.  According to Plaintiff, Defendant’s
failure to produce the incident report prevented Plaintiff from conducting a
meaningful deposition because the report would have refreshed Sillas’s memory
of the incident. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff did not request the
incident report that Cesia prepared after the incident. Plaintiff’s deposition
notice requested “Any and all DOCUMENTS, records, memoranda or writings germane
to the INSPECTIONS of the SUBJECT PREMISES after the INCIDENT.” (Request no.
1.)  Plaintiff defined “INSPECTION(S)” to
mean “the act of viewing, examining, checking, and/or testing a certain item,
thing, and/or article against certain established standards for the purpose of
determining whether or not that certain item, thing, and/or article’s state at
the time the inspection is made conforms to those established standards.” The
request cannot reasonably be read to include the incident report which Cesia
prepared after the incident. Therefore, Defendant was not required to produce
the incident report. 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request to
order a second session of Sillas’s deposition. 
Defendant requests sanctions of $1,680.00 based on 9
hours of attorney time at a billing rate of $180.00 per hour and one $60.00
filing fee.  Counsel spent two hours
meeting and conferring on this motion, two hours preparing for and attending
the Informal Discovery Conference, four hours preparing the opposition papers,
and one hour to appear at the hearing. 
The Court grants Defendant sanctions of $600.00 based
on three hours of attorney time and one filing fee. 
B.       Motion to compel Reyes’s second
deposition 
On
January 27, 2023, Plaintiff served a deposition notice on Defendant for the
deposition of Defendant’s employee Reyes and for production of documents.  Defendant served objections to the request
for production of documents.  Plaintiff
sent Defendant a meet and confer letter but Defendant did not respond. 
On
February 28, 2023, Plaintiff deposed Reyes. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant
did not produce the incident report that Defendant’s employee Cesia Ribera
prepared after Plaintiff’s alleged fall in Defendant’s store.  According to Plaintiff, Defendant’s failure
to produce the incident report prevented Plaintiff from conducting a meaningful
deposition because the report would have refreshed Reyes’s memory of the
incident. 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff did not request the incident report that Cesia
prepared after the incident. Plaintiff’s deposition notice requested “Any and
all DOCUMENTS, records, memoranda or writings germane to the INSPECTIONS of the
SUBJECT PREMISES after the INCIDENT.” (Request no. 1.)  Plaintiff defined “INSPECTION(S)” to mean
“the act of viewing, examining, checking, and/or testing a certain item, thing,
and/or article against certain established standards for the purpose of
determining whether or not that certain item, thing, and/or article’s state at
the time the inspection is made conforms to those established standards.” The
request cannot reasonably be read to include the incident report which Cesia
prepared after the incident. Therefore, Defendant was not required to produce
the incident report. 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request to order a second session of Reyes’s
deposition. 
Defendant
requests sanctions of $1,680.00 based on 9 hours of attorney time at a billing
rate of $180.00 per hour and one $60.00 filing fee.  Counsel spent two hours meeting and
conferring on this motion, two hours preparing for and attending the Informal
Discovery Conference, four hours preparing the opposition papers, and one hour
to appear at the hearing. 
The
Court grants Defendant sanctions of $600.00 based on three hours of attorney
time and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Rina Ester Tolentino’s
motion to compel a second deposition of Defendant
Vallarta Food Enterprises, Inc.’s employee Reyna
Sillas. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Rina Ester Tolentino’s motion to compel a second
deposition of Defendant Vallarta Food Enterprises, Inc.’s employee Mariela
Reyes. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Rina Ester Tolentino’s requests for sanctions. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Vallarta Food Enterprises, Inc.’s requests for sanctions
and orders Plaintiff Rina Ester Tolentino
and her counsel to pay Defendant Vallarta
Food Enterprises, Inc. $1,200.00 ($600.00 for each motion) by February 23, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.