 Case Number:  22STCV15959    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Kaveh Kavian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Paul Moseley (“Paul Moseley”), Joseph Moseley (“Joseph Moseley”),
Ralphs Grocery Company, Coreland Company (“Coreland”), Pacific Development Group
(“Pacific Development Group”), Universal Protection Services LP dba Allied Universal
Security Services (“Universal”), Future Motion, Inc. (“Future Motion”), and Does
1-100 for negligence, premises liability, strict liability, failure to warn,
and negligent design. 
On
June 21, 2022, Universal filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Paul Moseley, Joseph Moseley, Future Motion, and Moes 1-20 for
implied indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On July 27, 2023, Paul Moseley and Joseph
Moseley filed an answer to Universal’s cross-complaint.  On August 3, 2023, the Court dismissed Future
Motion from Universal’s cross-complaint without prejudice at Universal’s request. 
On
June 24, 2022, Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba
Ralphs (incorrectly named and served as Ralphs Grocery Company) (“Ralphs”)
filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Coreland, Pacific
Development Group, Future Motion, Universal, Paul Moseley, Joseph Moseley, and
Roes 1-10 for breach of contract, express indemnity, equitable indemnity,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  On June 16, 2023, Paul Moseley and Joseph
Moseley filed an answer to Ralphs’s cross-complaint.  On July 20, 2023, Future Motion filed an
answer to Ralphs’s cross-complaint.  On
July 26, 2023, Defendant Foothills Pacific Venture I
(erroneously sued and served as Pacific Development Group) (“Foothills Pacific
Venture”) filed an answer to Ralphs’s cross-complaint. 
On
July 1, 2022, Paul Moseley and Joseph Moseley filed an answer to the complaint.
On February 14, 2023, Future Motion filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
February 1, 2023, the Court dismissed Coreland from the complaint without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
July 5, 2023, the clerk entered Pacific Development Group’s default on
Plaintiff’s complaint.  On July 26, 2023, Foothills Pacific Venture (erroneously
sued and served as Pacific Development Group) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
September 28, 2023, Ralphs and Foothills Pacific Venture filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition, to be heard on January 19, 2024. The Court continued
the hearing to January 24, 2024.  On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 8, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Ralphs
and Foothills Pacific Venture request that the Court compel Plaintiff to appear
for a deposition and impose $1,490.00 in sanctions on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion and impose $2,610.00 in sanctions on Ralphs
and Foothills Pacific Venture. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid
objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.  * * *  “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subds. (a), (b), (g).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Status of Foothills Pacific Venture 
Ralphs
and Foothills Pacific Venture filed this motion to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition.  However, on July 5, 2023, the
clerk entered Pacific Development Group’s default on Plaintiff’s
complaint.  Foothills Pacific Venture has
stated that it was erroneously sued and served as Pacific Development Group.  Therefore, Foothills Pacific Venture also appears
to be in default and to have “no right to participate in the proceedings until
either (a) its default is set aside (in which event, it may respond to the
complaint), or (b) a default judgment is entered (in which event, it may
appeal).”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow,
Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 5:6, p. 5-2.) 
Even
if Foothills Pacific Venture is in default, the Court may consider the motion
to compel Plaintiff’s deposition because Ralphs also filed the motion. 
B.   Motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition 
On
April 10, 2023, Ralphs noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for June 13, 2023.  (Beverly Dec. exh. A.)  On June 6, 2023, Plaintiff served an
objection asserting that Ralphs had unilaterally noticed the deposition and
Plaintiff’s counsel was not available on June 13, 2023. (Beverly Dec. exh. B.) 
On
August 1, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that Plaintiff and Plaintiff's counsel were available for a
deposition on September 19, 2023.  (Beverly
Dec. ¶ 4 & exh. C.)  Foothills Pacific
Venture accordingly noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for September 19, 2023. (Beverly Dec. ¶ 4 & exh. D.) 
On
September 15, 2023, Plaintiff objected to the deposition notice, stating that Foothills
Pacific Ventura had unilaterally noticed the deposition and Plaintiff’s counsel
was not available for a September 19 deposition.  (Beverly Dec. ¶ 5 & exh. E.)  
On
September 18, 2023, counsel for Ralphs and Foothills Pacific Venture sent an
email to Plaintiff’s counsel stating: 
“We received your notice of objection to the
deposition of plaintiff for tomorrow claiming we unilaterally set it and you
are unavailable. However, on Aug 1, 2023, we received the following email from
your associate. Therefore, we did not unilaterally set it. We set it based on
your availability. So we expect the deposition to go froward [sic] tomorrow and will be sending the
link out shortly.”  (Beverly Dec. exh. C.)  The email included a copy of the August 1, 2023 email from Plaintiff’s counsel confirming that Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel were available for a deposition on September 19, 2023.  (Beverly Dec. exh. C.)  Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond.  (Beverly Dec. exh. F.) Believing
they had properly noticed and discussed the deposition, Ralphs and Foothills
Pacific Venture proceeded with the deposition on September 19, 2023.  Counsel for Ralphs and Foothills Pacific
Venture sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email at 9:03 a.m. asking if Plaintiff and his
counsel were going to appear but evidently did not receive a response.  (Beverly Dec. exh. C.)  Plaintiff did not appear.  (Beverly Dec. ¶ 6 & exh. F.) 
On
September 20, 2023, counsel for Ralphs and Foothills Pacific Venture sent an
email to Plaintiff’s counsel which stated: 
“Please take this email as my request to meet and
confer regarding taking of plaintiff’s deposition on the above case. When you
and your client failed to appear yesterday despite the properly noticed
deposition, we took a non-appearance. Please see attached. 
“Please respond to this email with dates your client
is available for deposition. If we do not hear from you, we will be forced to
file a Motion to Compel your client’s deposition.” 
(Beverly Dec. ¶ 7 & exh. C.)  Plaintiff’s counsel had not responded to the
email by the time Ralphs filed this motion.  (Beverly Dec. ¶
8.) 
In
opposition to the motion, Plaintiff asserts that (1) Plaintiff properly
objected to the notice of the September 19, 2023 deposition but Ralphs ignored the objection,
(2) Ralphs did not meet and confer about Plaintiff’s September 15, 2023
objection before proceeding with the September 19, 2023 deposition, (3) Ralphs
did not call Plaintiff’s counsel before the September 19, 2023 deposition to
confirm that it was going forward, and (4) aside from the September 20, 2023
email from counsel for Ralphs, “[n]o other effort was made to call Plaintiff
counsel or send a second last attempt meet and confer to Plaintiff counsel.”  (Opposition p. 2.) 
Plaintiff's September 15, 2023 objection to the deposition notice erroneously asserted that the
deposition date was unilaterally set.  As
Ralphs has shown, on August 1, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed that Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel were available for a deposition on September 19,
2023.  Counsel for Foothills Pacific
Venture reasonably relied on Plaintiff’s counsel’s statement in scheduling the
deposition.  Therefore, the objection was not valid for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a). 
Ralphs
did not ignore Plaintiff’s September 15, 2023 objection to the deposition notice.  Instead, counsel for Ralphs sent Plaintiff’s counsel the September 18, 2023 email set forth above in which Ralphs's counsel (1) met and conferred
about the objection and (2) advised Plaintiff’s counsel that the September 19,
2023 deposition was going forward. 
Plaintiff does not argue or show that his counsel had asked Ralphs’s
counsel to communicate by methods other than email. 
Counsel
for Ralphs and Foothills Pacific Venture reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel on
September 18 and 20, 2023, without receiving any response.  The Court finds that Ralphs and Foothills
Pacific Venture have satisfied their meet and confer obligations. 
Ralphs
asks the Court to impose $1,490.00 in sanctions on Plaintiff and his counsel
based on four hours of attorney time at a rate of $220 per hour, one $60 filing
fee, and a $550 certificate of non-appearance.  Counsel spent two hours to prepare the motion
and anticipated spending one hour to review the opposition and prepare a reply
and one hour to attend the hearing. 
The
Court awards Ralphs sanctions of $1,050.00 based on two hours of attorney
time, one filing fee, and the $550 non-appearance fee.  The Court finds that Plaintiff did not act with substantial justification and imposition of sanctions would not be unjust. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION           The Court GRANTS
Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs’s motion to compel Plaintiff Kaveh Kavian to attend his
deposition and orders Plaintiff to attend his deposition within 45 days of the hearing on this motion.  Defendant is to make all necessary arrangements to
take Plaintiff's deposition by this deadline. 
          The
Court GRANTS Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs’s request for
sanctions and orders Plaintiff Kaveh Kavian and his counsel to pay Defendant
Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs $1,050.00 within 30 days of the hearing on
this motion. 
          The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Kaveh Kavian’s request for sanctions. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.