  Case Number:  20STCV26659    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 15, 2020, Plaintiff Corentin Villemeur (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Elvis Orlando Guevara and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle
negligence, negligence entrustment of vehicle, and intentional infliction of
emotional distress, hit and run, with punitive damages. 
On
April 19, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Elvis
Guevara Vasquez, aka Elvis Orlando Guevara, aka Elvis Orlando Guevara Vasquez (“Defendant”),
and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle negligence, negligence entrustment of vehicle, and intentional infliction of emotional distress, hit and run, with punitive damages. 
On
January 25, 2022, the clerk entered Defendant’s default. 
On
March 1, 2023, the Court dismissed the action without prejudice. 
On
March 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate the dismissal to be heard on
June 7, 2023. The Court continued the hearing to January 24, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court vacate the dismissal. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides
in part: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. However, this
section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall be brought to
trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff’s
counsel has submitted a declaration stating that counsel inadvertently failed
to appear on March 1, 2023 because counsel miscalendared the hearing.   
The
dismissal was the result of attorney mistake. 
The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Corentin Villemeur’s motion to vacate the
dismissal.  The Court vacates the
dismissal entered on March 1, 2023. 
The
Court sets a OSC Re: Dismissal for Failure to Enter Default Judgment for
February 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 28 of the Spring Street
Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.