 Case Number:  21STCV41907    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   MARGARET MEDINA,    Plaintiff, v.  CITY OF CULVER CITY,  et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  21STCV41907     Hearing Date:  September 25, 2023      [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL    FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS    FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,    SET ONE   BACKGROUND  This is a trip and fall case.  Plaintiff Margaret Medina tripped and fell on a parkway that was uneven and contained jagged bricks.  She was being transported in a van driven by Defendant Spencer Wray (“Wray”), an employee of Defendant the City of Culver City (“City”).  Wray placed Plaintiff’s walker on the raised and uneven brick parkway.  Once Plaintiff got to her walker, she released the brake and attempted to walk forward only to fall backward after snagging on the edge of one of the raised bricks.     Plaintiff served document requests, set one, on the City.  One of the requests (Request No. 14) sought an incident report written by Wray after the accident.  The City identified an incident report in its discovery responses to form interrogatories, but refused to produce copies of the report, claiming attorney-client privilege and work product.  The parties participated in an informal discovery conference which failed to resolve the dispute.    This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to compel the City to produce the incident report pursuant to Request No. 14.  Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions.   DISCUSSION The City contends the incident report (the “Report”) qualifies as an attorney-client privileged communication and is therefore protected from disclosure.  The Court agrees.   The Report was prepared only after Plaintiff filed a claim.  Plaintiff filed a claim with the City on June 16, 2021.  (Tran Decl. ¶4.)  Approximately one month later, after the City received the Claim, Wray prepared the Report on July 7, 2021.  (Id. ¶5.)  The Report was prepared at the direction of the City attorney.  (Vidra Decl. ¶4.)  At the bottom of the Report, it is noted “This incident report has been prepared at the direction of the City Attorney and is subject to the attorney client privilege.”  (Id. ¶5.)  The only recipients of the Report are the City Attorney’s office and outside counsel, McCune & Harber LLP.  (Ex. C to Tran Decl.)   The dominant purpose of incident reports is for the ultimate transmission to the City Attorney’s Office and retained outside counsel if and when litigation commences.  (Id. ¶4.)  Incident reports are confidential and not kept in a public file.  (Vidra Decl. ¶5.)  Upon completion of the report by the City employee, it is maintained in a secure location and a copy is forwarded to the City Attorney’s Office.  Once the City receives a claim of damages regarding the incident document in the report, the reports are then forwarded to outside counsel to assist them in their investigation and evaluation of the incident at issue.  (Id.)   On these facts, the Court concludes the City has met its burden of showing the Report is privileged.  (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 (A party invoking the attorney client privilege “has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the course of an attorney-client relationship.”).) Heffron v. Los Angeles Transit Lines (1959) 170 Cal.App.2d 709, is instructive.  There, a bus company was sued for the wrongful death of a child struck by one of its buses.  An accident report was prepared by the driver.  Plaintiffs sought a copy of the report, and defendants claimed attorney-client privilege.  The trial court found that the privilege applied, and its ruling was upheld on appeal because the “dominant purpose in obtaining and preserving the driver’s statement was that it might be transmitted as a communication to the attorneys … in defending respondent against a potential claim.”  (Id. at 717-718.) In Soltani-Rustegar v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 424, 428, the plaintiff sought to compel disclosure of statements made by witnesses to a car accident to an insurance claims representative.  The defendant argued the statements are covered by the attorney client privilege because they were made in anticipation of litigation and were directed to an agent of the attorney even though no lawsuit had yet been filed and no attorney had yet been assigned to the case.  (Id. at 425.)  The Soltani court held that the witness statements given to the defendant’s agent after the accident, which were given “for the sole purpose of defending against claims, are protected by the attorney client privilege.”  (Id. at 428.)  “The fact that litigation was only a threat on the horizon and that attorneys had not yet been selected to try to avert or meet the threat does not convert the purpose of the transmission.”  (Id.)   In Scripps Health v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 532, the plaintiff sought to compel occurrence reports made by a self-insured hospital about the decedent’s treatment.  The occurrence reports were prepared by employees under the hospital’s risk management plan and pursuant to the directive of its legal department.  (Id. at 534-535.)  The court noted that the dominant purpose of the reports was for transmittal to an attorney under circumstances in which the hospital expected confidentiality.  (Id. at 534.)  The privilege applied because the reports were used by the risk managers as de facto insurance claims handlers and were “primarily created for the purpose of attorney review whether or not litigation is actually threatened at the time a report is made.”  (Id. at 535.)  Here, as in Heffron, Soltani and Scripps, the dominant purpose of the Report was for transmission to counsel.  (Vidra Decl. ¶4.)  Indeed, the only recipients of the report were attorneys.  (Ex. C to Tran Decl.)  And the report itself states: “This incident report has been prepared at the direction of the City Attorney and is subject to the attorney client privilege.”  (Vidra Decl. ¶5.)   Plaintiff cites to the City’s Operator’s Manual, arguing that “the incident reports are standard practice designed to catalogue incidents that occur, are not facilitated or prescribed by any attorney or insurance representative, and its primary purpose falls within the scope of business.”  But the same manual instructs employees to “[t]ake time to think through the sequences of events and recall as much as you can.  Your report can help Culver City minimize the cost of settling legitimate claims and protect assets against the financial burden of fraudulent or excessive claims.”  (Plaintiff’s Ex. 7 at p. 63.)  Clearly, the reporting and documenting of accidents are motivated by legal reasons, namely, for the City to defend against claims and lawsuits or to help the City settle legitimate claims.   Given the Court has ruled in the City’s favor, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  The City had substantial justification for its claim of privilege, which the Court ultimately upheld.      CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to her requests for production of documents, set one, Request No. 14.  The Court also DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.     IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: September 25, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 