 Case Number:  23STCV21423    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DERRICK
  LAMONT BEVERLY,  
  
         vs.
 
FOX NORMANDIE
  APARTMENTS LP, et al.
  


 Case No.: 23STCV07707
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 7, 2023



 
Defendants
Fox Normandie LP’s, Jeffrey Mitchell’s, and Belinda Hatcher’s unopposed
special motion to strike the complaint of pro per Plaintiff Derrick
Lamont Beverly is granted.  Defendants may
separately move for an award of attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
Defendants Fox
Normandie LP (“Fox Normandie”), Jeffrey Mitchell (“Mitchell”), and Belinda
Hatcher (“Hatcher”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move unopposed to
strike portions of the complaint (“Complaint”) of pro per Plaintiff Derrick
Lamont Beverly (“Beverly”) (“Plaintiff”) on the grounds that Plaintiff’s
Complaint contains at least one allegation or more arising out of protected
activity and Plaintiff cannot show a probability of prevailing on the merits.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §425.16.)  Defendants move to strike the following
portions of the Complaint: (1) Complaint page 2, lines 27-28, where Plaintiff
refers to the eviction as “self-appointed and/or in agreement to carrying out
the pre-meditated gang stalking agenda” of having him removed from the property;
and (2) the entire first cause for damages (or other unspecified tort), since
once the SLAPP paragraphs are stricken from the factual allegations, any cause
of action fails.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendants’ 10/18/23 request
for judicial notice of (1) the unlawful detainer (eviction) file for Fox
Normandie Apartments LP v. Beverly, LASC Case No. 22STUD06657 (D-RJN, Exh.
A); (2) restraining order hearing file for Beverly v. Singfield, Case No.
23STRO00528 (D-RJN, Exh. B); (3) Sheriff’s Returned Writ on
Attachment/Execution in LASC Case No. 22STUD06657, filed on February 24, 2023
(D-RJN, Exh. C); (4) Beverly v. Fox Normandie et al., LASC Case No. 23STCV07492,
filed April 5, 2023, dismissed by the Court, Department 38, on August 23, 2023;
(5) Beverly v. Fox Normandie et al., LASC Case No. 23STCV07609, filed
April 6, 2023; (6) Beverly v. Mitchell, LASC Case No. 23STCV08227, filed
April 13, 2023, anti-SLAPP motion to be heard January 22, 2024; and (7) Beverly
v. Law Offices of Ada R. Cordero-Sacks, et al., LASC Case No. 23STCV08356,
filed April 14, 2023, anti-SLAPP motion to be heard April 16, 2024, is granted.
 
Background 
          This matter involves Plaintiff’s former tenancy at a
property owned by Fox Normandie, located at 849 Normandie Avenue, Unit #101,
Los Angeles, California 90005 (“Subject Property”), which resulted in Defendant
Fox Normandie filing an unlawful detainer action against him.  (D-RJN, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint
against Defendants on April 7, 2023, alleging a single unspecified cause of
action.  (See Complaint.) 
On October 18, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion.  As of the date
of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
Special Motion to Strike
          “Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step
process. First, ‘the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged.’ [Citation.] Second, for each claim that does arise from
protected activity, the plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal
merit.’ [Citation.]”  (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009, citations omitted.)  As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff
seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its
complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent
admissible evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High School District v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940, citations omitted.)
A defendant opposing a
special motion to strike has the burden to “state [] and substantiate [] a
legally sufficient claim.”  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 & 93.)  “‘Put another way, the defendant “must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the defendant is credited.”’ [Citations.]”  (Id. at pgs. 88-89.)  To that end, the defendant must present
competent evidence, “that would be admissible at trial.”  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.)  “[D]eclarations
may not be based upon ‘information and belief’ [citation]” and documents
submitted without the proper foundation will not be considered.  (Id.) 
The complaint, even if verified, is insufficient to carry the plaintiff’s
shifted burden.  (Roberts v. Los
Angeles County Bar Association (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; Karnazes
v. Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 [“pleadings do not constitute
evidence”]; see also Burke, Anti-SLAPP Litigation (The Rutter Group,
Civil Litigation Series 2018 § 5:13) [“To satisfy prong two, the plaintiff must
submit admissible evidence that if credited is sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment against the legal theories asserted by the defendant.”].)
 
Prong One: Arising from
Protected Activity
“A cause of action is subject
to a special motion to strike if the defendant shows that the cause of action
arises from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue and the plaintiff
fails to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. [Citations.]”  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,
883.) 
“An ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined by statute to
include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.’  [Citation.]
If the defendant shows that the cause of action arises from a statement
described in clause (1) or (2) of section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not
required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made in connection
with a ‘public issue.’ [Citation.]”  (Id.)
“A cause of action is one
‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) only if the defendant’s act on which the cause of action is
based was an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue. [Citation.] In
deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied, ‘the court shall
consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ [(C.C.P. §425.16(b)(2).)]
Whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied depends on the ‘gravamen or
principal thrust’ of the claim. [Citations.] A cause of action does not arise
from protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute if the protected
activity is merely incidental to the cause of action. [Citations.]”  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC, 194
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 883-884,
citations omitted.)  To show that a claim
arises from protected activity under §425.16(b)(1), it is not sufficient to
show that the claim “was filed after, or because of, protected activity, or
when protected activity merely provides evidentiary support or context for the
claim.” (Rand Resources, LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621.)
 “Rather, the protected activity must
‘supply elements of the challenged claim.’ [Citation.]”  (Id., citations omitted.)
“At the first step, the
moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them. When relief is sought
based on allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the
unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.  If the court determines that relief is sought
based on allegations arising from activity protected by the statute, the second
step is reached. There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that
each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally sufficient and
factually substantiated. The court, without resolving evidentiary conflicts,
must determine whether the plaintiff’s showing, if accepted by the trier of
fact, would be sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. If not, the claim is
stricken. Allegations of protected activity supporting the stricken claim are
eliminated from the plaintiff, unless they also support a distinct claim on
which the plaintiff has shown a probability of prevailing.”  (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396, emphasis added.)
The burden is on the plaintiff
to produce evidence that would be admissible at trial—i.e., to proffer a prima
facie showing of facts supporting a judgment in plaintiff’s favor.  (Chavez v. Mendoza (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
1083, 1087.)
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s
allegation in on page 2:27-28 of the Complaint, referring to his eviction from
the Subject Property as “self-appointed and/or in agreement to carrying out the
pre-meditated gang stalking agenda” of having Plaintiff removed from the
Subject Property, refers to Plaintiff’s eviction which is protected activity
under the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Motion,
pg. 7; Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19
Cal.4th 1106, 1115.)
 
Statements or Writing Made in Connection
with an Issue Under Consideration or Review by a Judicial Body (C.C.P.
§425.16(e)(2))
Defendants met their burden to
show the single cause of action against them in Plaintiff’s Complaint arises
from an “act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public issue.”  (C.C.P. §§425.16(b), (e).)  Plaintiff’s single unspecified cause of action
against Defendants is based on the following allegation: Complaint page
2, lines 27-28, where Plaintiff refers to the eviction as “self appointed
and/or in agreement to carry out the pre-meditated gangstalking [sic] agenda
participatory by in/the allid [sic] ‘Illuminated’ . . . ? (Illuminati),” for
having Plaintiff removed from the Subject Property.  (Complaint, pg.
2:27-28.)  
“The constitutional right to
petition, as we have seen, includes the basic act of filing litigation or
otherwise seeking administrative action.”  (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 8, 19.)  The right of
petition includes access to the courts.  (Briggs, 19 Cal.4th at pg. 1115 [“[j]ust
as communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an
action or other official proceeding are within the protection of the litigation
privilege of Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) . . . such statements are
equally entitled to the benefits of section 425.16.”].)  Defendants argue the filing of an unlawful
detainer and the notices leading up to Plaintiff’s eviction from the Subject
Property are protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute as well as protected
under the litigation privilege.  (Motion,
pgs. 7-8; Briggs, 19 Cal.4th at pg. 1115.)  However, the issue of litigation privilege is
not relevant to the first prong of an anti-SLAPP, but rather the second
prong.  Defendant’s alleged wrongful act filing
and prosecuting an unlawful detainer is indisputably protected activity under
the anti-SLAPP statute.  Therefore, Defendants
met their burden of demonstrating Plaintiff’s Complaint for damages against
them arises from protected activity.  
The burden shifts to Plaintiff
to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the cause of action against Defendants.  Plaintiff has not met his burden.
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
A.   Malicious Prosecution
“To establish a cause of
action for the malicious prosecution of a civil proceeding, a plaintiff must
plead and prove that the prior action (1) was commenced by or at the direction
of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination in his, plaintiff’s,
favor; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was initiated with
malice.”  (Bertero v. National General
Corp. (1974) 13 Cal.3d 43, 50, internal citations omitted.)     
Plaintiff failed to establish
a probability of prevailing on his unspecified claim against Defendants by
failing to submit sufficient evidence to support a prima facie cause of action for what
appears in substance to be a cause of action for malicious prosecution.
Assuming,
arguendo, Plaintiff met his burden on prong 2, his allegation pertaining
to Defendants’ prosecution of their unlawful detainer claim falls within the
litigation privilege, which is absolute and applies regardless of malice.  (See Civ. Code §47(b) [defining
“privileged publication” as a communication made “in any (1) legislative
proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding
authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized
by law”]; Bergstein v. Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 793, 814  [“the litigation
privilege is absolute and applies regardless of malice and has been given broad
application”], internal quotations and citations omitted.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff failed
to establish a probability of prevailing on his cause of action against Defendants.
 
Conclusion
          Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ unopposed
special motion to strike Plaintiff’s cause of action against them is granted.  Defendants may separately move for an award
of attorneys’ fees and costs.  
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2023
                                                                             





  