 Case Number:  23STCP01914    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DR. PAUL C. BROUN, et al.,  
  
        
  vs.
 
STATE OF GEORGIA.


 Case
  No.:  23STCP01914
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 7, 2023



 
Non-Party
Konnech Inc.’s unopposed application to permit Constantine Z. Pamphilis
to appear pro hac vice is denied without prejudice.

Non-Party
Konnech Inc.’s motion for leave to intervene as a matter of right is granted pursuant
to C.C.P. §387(d)(1)(B).
Non-Party
Konnech Inc.’s motion for reconsideration is granted.  The Court will reconsider Petitioners’
petition to enforce subpoena duces tecum. 
Konnech is ordered to file its opposition to the petition by December
21, 2023.  Petitioners are ordered to
file their reply by January 11, 2024. 
The Court will hear the petition on Wednesday, January 17, 2024, at 8:30
am.
 
Non-Party Konnech Inc. (“Konnech”)
applies unopposed to permit Constantine Z. Pamphilis (“Pamphilis”) to
appear pro hac vice.  (Notice Pro Hac
Vice, pg. 2; CRC, Rule 9.40.) 
Konnech moves for leave to intervene as a
matter of right in the instant matter on the basis it has an interest relating
to the property that is the subject of this action, specifically, approximately
350 Terabytes of confidential, sensitive and proprietary business data
belonging to Konnech and entrusted to it by cities and counties across the U.S.
relating to every facet of Konnech’s business and finances—specifically
including, among many other things, source code for Konnech’s proprietary
software products that form the foundation of its business operations—that was
previously seized by Respondent Los Angeles County District Attorneys’ Office
(“LADA”) (“Respondent”), and which the Court has now ordered to be produced to
Petitioners.  (Notice Intervene, pg. 3; C.C.P.
§387(d)(1)(B).)  Konnech moves on the
basis it is so situated that the disposition of the subpoena at issue will
undoubtedly impair or impede Konnech’s ability to protect its confidential,
sensitive, and proprietary business data, as well as personal identifying
information for current and former Konnech employees and employees of cities
and counties across the U.S., and Konnech’s interests are not adequately
represented by the original parties to this action.  (Notice Intervene, pg. 3.)
Konnech moves, in the alternative, for permissive
intervention on the basis Konnech has a direct interest in this action, Konnech’s
intervention will not enlarge the issues in this action, and the reasons for
Konnech’s intervention outweigh any opposition by the original parties.  (Notice Intervene, pg. 3; C.C.P. §387(d)(2); People
v. ex rel. Rominger v. County of Trinity (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 655, 660-661.)
Konnech moves for this Court to reconsider
its September 25, 2023, Ruling on Petitioners Dr. Paul C. Broun’s (“Broun”),
Sheri Gilligan’s (“Gilligan”), and Voter GA’s (“Voter GA”) (collectively, “Petitioners”)
Motion for Protective Order, Motion for In Camera Inspection and Objections to
Subpoena.  (Memorandum Intervene, Exh. A;
C.C.P. §1008(a).)
 
Background
On September 25, 2023, Petitioners moved
for an order compelling Non-party LADA’s Office Custodian of Records and
Evidence to comply with Petitioners’ second subpoena duces tecum, served on
LADA on March 14, 2023.  The subpoena requested the production of
materials seized by the LADA on October 4, 2022, from Konnech in connection
with its investigation into Konnech and the arrest of its Chief Executive
Officer, Eugene Yu.[1]  
The subpoena requested LADA to produce and
permit inspection and copying of:
A copy of all forensically sound evidence drives imaged from a)
computer/electronic hardware obtained from any Konnech, Inc. location or b) any
and all cloud-based services used by Konnech, including the following: 
 
1)    From
the Konnech, Inc. corporate network: a. All PCAP traffic at the network
perimeter b. All images identifying ingress and egress TCP/IP source and c.
Destination IP addresses for all known ports or protocols in use in such
communications. 
 
2)    From
the Konnech, Inc. network mapping atoll, like NMAP a. Enumerated topology of
the network b. Enumerated topology of network infrastructure, and c. Enumerated
topology hosts (servers, workstations) existing on the network, including all
generated NMAP files and PDFs 
 
3)    From
Konnech, Inc. data captured from all third party cloud services company sites
like Jira, Microsoft Teams, or any similar services, including corporate
administrative services. 
 
In regards to a search warrant executed in the State of Michigan, or
otherwise gathered in relation to Case No. BA 509784, People of the State of
California v. Eugene Wei Yu (DOB: 11/01/1957).
 
The LA District Attorney had objected:
OBJECTION TO REQUEST NO. 1: Objection. Responding Praty objects to this
request to the extent it seeks documents and materials already previously
requested and/or covered by Propounding Party’s prior Subpoena Duces Tecum and
already responded to on December 23, 2022. Responding Party further objects to
this request on the grounds that the request is vague, ambiguous, overly broad
and burdensome and to the extent it seeks documents which are either equally
available and/or from third parties and/or are not subject to disclosure
without a court order or pursuant to statute and/or case law. Responding Party
further objects to the extent it seeks documents which are not relevant to the
issues in the case and not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Responding Party also objects to the extent it invades the privacy rights of
third parties protected by State Constitution and/or specific protective orders
issued by the Court. Responding Party further objects to the extent the request
seeks documents not subject to disclosure including but not limited to those
protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or Attorney Work product
doctrine (CCP 2018.020 and 2018.030); the Official Information privilege (Evid.
Code 1040); documents exempt from disclosure (including but not limited to GC
6254, PC 851.8, PC 1203.45, Evid. Code 1017, 1560(d), PC 1534(a), 11105, and Central
Valley Ch.7th Step Foundation v. Younger (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 145 and Loder
vs. Municipal Court (1976) 17 Cal.3d 859); Court transcripts (GC 69954);
Criminal history documents (PC 11140 et seq. and 13300 et seq.); Probation
Reports (PC 1203.05); Grand Jury documents (PC 891 and 924 et seq.); Computer
information (AG Op.#06-203); Charge Evaluation Worksheets (AG Op.#06-203);
Medical records (HIPPA and PC 1543 and WIC 5328); Juvenile court records (WIC
827 et seq); and/or Items for which Responding Party is not the custodian of
records (Cooley vs. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1041)
etc. Lastly, Responding Party objects to this request on the grounds that the
underlying criminal matter and related criminal matters are currently pending
and/or still under investigation and therefore the need for maintaining the
confidentiality of certain records and information outweighs the benefits of
disclosure at this time.  (See
Cal. Evid. Code §1040(b)(2) and County of Orange v. Superior Court
(2000) 79 Cal. App.4th 759.
 
After review of the motion to enforce
compliance with the subpoena, LADA’s opposition, and Petitioner’s reply, the
Court overruled LADA’s objections and ordered it to comply with the
subpoena.  
On October 5, 2023, Konnech, Inc. applied
ex parte for an order shortening time for hearing on its motion to intervene
and for hearing on an application to admit Constantine Pamphilis pro hac
vice.  The Court granted the application and set the hearing on the
motions to intervene and on the application to admit Constantine Pamphilis pro
hac vice on December 7, 2023.  The Court also stayed its order of
September 25, 2023, until December 15, 2023.  
 
A.   Motion to be Admitted Pro Hac
Vice
C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following:
(1)   The applicant’s residence and
office address;
(2)   The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)   That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)   That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)   The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro
hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)   The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides
as follows, “[a]n applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice
under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.”
The instant application
provides the information required by C.R.C., Rule 9.40(d).  However, Pamphilis failed to submit proof the
$50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California because he failed to file
the Declaration of Daniel A. Saunders with his application, which the Court
assumes was intended to demonstrate payment to the State Bar.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); see Decl. of Pamphilis
¶11.)  The Declaration of
Matthew Manacek alleges on information and belief that the required application
fees and been paid without evidence to support such payment.  (Decl. of Manacek ¶3.)  Further, Pamphilis and Manacek failed to
submit proof of service by mail on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office the of verified application and notice of the hearing in
accordance with C.C.P. §1013a.  (C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(c)(1); see Decl. of Manacek ¶2 and pg. 3 (Proof of
Service); Decl. of Pamphilis ¶11 and pg. 5 (Proof of Service).)
Pamphilis has provided this
Court with his Texas bar number (Bar. No. 00794419). While this requirement is
not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule 9.40, the Court would need this number to enter Pamphilis’
application into the Court’s system.
Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed
motion for an order admitting Constatine Z. Pamphilis to appear pro hac vice is
denied without prejudice.
 
B.    Motion for Leave to Intervene
Request for Judicial Notice
Petitioners’ 11/22/23 request
for judicial notice is denied as to (1) the factual allegations and statements
made by and on behalf of Real Party in Interest Konnech, Inc. by its CEO Eugene
Yu contained within the following newspaper article: Stuart A. Thompson,
Election Firm Knew Data Had Been Sent to China, Prosecutors Say, NY Times
(October 13, 2023), <https://www.nytimes.com/2022/10/13/technology/konnech-eugene-yu-election-data.html>,
(last accessed November 21, 2023).
Petitioners’ 11/22/23 request
for judicial notice is granted as to (2) Konnech, Inc. v. True the Vote,
Inc., et al., S.D. Tex. Case No. 4:22-cv-03096: Parties’ Stipulation and
Dismissal filed on April 19, 2023 (P-RJN, Exh. B); (3) Konnech, Inc. v. True
the Vote, Inc., et al., S.D. Tex. Case No. 4:22-cv-03096: Defendant True the
Vote’s Opposed Motion for Appointment of Special Master, and Exhibit B to that
Motion (P-RJN, Exh. C); and (4) Georgia Code Annotated §9-11-26 (P-RJN, Exh.
D).  However, the Court does not consider
the truth of the matters asserted.
Konnech’s 11/30/23 request
for judicial notice of the statements made by Executive Director Keisha Smith,
and various board members of the DeKalb County Board of Registration &
Elections, during an October 10, 2022 special meeting concerning changes to its
contract with Konnech and scope of same, available on the DeKalb County
government website, at https://www.dekalbcountyga.gov/news/dekalb-bre-votes-terminate-access-poll-worker-data-konnech-inc, is granted.  (K-RJN, Exh. A.)  However, the Court does not consider the
truth of the matters asserted.
 
          Legal Standard
Pursuant to C.C.P. §387(b),
“an intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a
party to an action or proceeding between other persons by doing any of the
following: (1) Joining a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint
[;] (2) Uniting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff [; or] (3)
Demanding anything adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant.”  (C.C.P. §387(b).)
Pursuant to C.C.P. §387(d),
(d)(1) The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty
to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions
is satisfied:
 
(A)      A provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene.
 
(B)      The person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that
interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.
 
(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both.
 
(C.C.P. §387(d).)
 
          Discussion
The Court grants Konnech’s
motion for leave to intervene pursuant to C.C.P. §387(d)(1)(B).  Konnech has an interest in the data at issue in
this matter and its ability to protect that data has been impaired or impeded
by this Court’s September 25, 2023 Ruling. 
Therefore, Konnech is entitled to mandatory intervention so long as its
rights are not adequately protected by existing parties.
As a preliminary matter, the
instant motion is timely.  (Noya v.
A.W. Coulter Trucking (2006)143 Cal. App. 4th 838, 842 [stating there is no
statutory time limit for filing a motion to intervene].)  The general rule is that “a right to intervene
should be asserted within a reasonable time and that the intervenor must not be
guilty of an unreasonable delay after knowledge of the suit.”  (Allen v. California Water & Telephone
Co. (1947) 31 Cal.2d 104, 108.)  Intervention
is timely unless any party opposing intervention can show prejudice from any
delay attributable to the filing of the motion to intervene.  (Truck Insurance Exchange v. Superior Court
(1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 351 [stating motion to intervene filed in lawsuit
that had been pending for four years was timely because parties to that action
had shown no prejudice other than being required to prove their case].)  Here, Konnech did not learn of this Court’s September
25, 2023 Ruling until October 2, 2023, and was not provided notice of the
Ruling by Petitioners or the Respondent, the Los Angeles District Attorneys’
Office (“LADA”) (“Respondent”).  (Decl.
of Yu ¶¶7-8.)  Konnech filed the instant
motion within three days of learning of the existence of this action, which was
asserted within a reasonable time and without unreasonable delay.  (Allen, 31 Cal.2d at pg. 108.)
Konnech demonstrates an interest
relating to the property that is the subject of this action. The Subpoena at
issue in the Court’s September 25, 2023 Ruling seeks production of “a copy of
all forensically sound evidence imaged from a) computer/electronic hardware
obtained from any Konnech, Inc. location or b) any and all cloud-based services
used by Konnech.”  (Petitioners Subpoena
SS, pg. 2.)  Because the LADA seized all
Konnech computer and electronic equipment—including 12 computer servers, 14
hard drives, laptops, desktops, workstations, and firewall equipment—the
forensic copies made from this equipment necessarily encompasses 350 Terabytes
of data comprising every facet of Konnech’s business operations.  (Decl. of Yu ¶¶5, 14.)  This includes sensitive source code for
Konnech’s proprietary software products, highly sensitive financial information
about the company, indisputably privileged communications between Konnech and
its attorneys, confidential data entrusted to Konnech by its non-party clients
and confidential personal identifiable information (“PII”) for thousands of
non-party poll workers across the country. 
(Decl. of Yu ¶¶5, 14-17.)  This
Court’s September 25, 2023 Ruling compels production of all of this data to
Petitioners.  (9/23/23 Minute Order, pg.
4.)
The data ordered produced in
the Subpoena belongs to Konnech, which creates an interest in the property that
is the subject of this action.  Konnech
has a clear and substantial interest in preventing its highly confidential and
sensitive source code, business and financial information from being disclosed
to third parties and potential competitors without its knowledge or consent.
This Court’s September 25,
2023, Ruling compelling production of that data
necessarily impairs Konnech’s
ability to protect its interests in preventing disclosure of that data to third
parties, including Petitioners.  The LADA
has not adequately protected Konnech’s rights in this matter.  This is demonstrated by the fact the LADA
never notified Konnech that its data was the subject of a subpoena, let alone
that this action had been filed, that the parties briefed a motion to compel
production, or that this Court issued its September 25, 2023, Ruling compelling
production.  (See Decl. of Yu
¶8.)  In opposing Petitioners’ petition,
the LADA made no attempt to meet its burden to demonstrate the items in
Petitioners’ Subpoena were acquired in confidence and that disclosure of such
information would be “against the public interest.”  (9/25/23 Minute Order, pg. 4.)  Further, LADA made no attempt to narrowly
tailor the requested production or request this Court issue a protective order
to govern the production of Konnech’s data.
          Accordingly, Konnech is entitled to mandatory intervention
pursuant to C.C.P. §387(d)(1)(B).
 
Conclusion
Konnech’s motion for leave to intervene is
granted.  Konnech is granted leave to
intervene as a matter of right pursuant to C.C.P. §387(d)(1)(B).
Moving Party to give notice.
 
C.    Motion for Reconsideration
Legal Standard
C.C.P. §1008(a) “requires that a motion for
reconsideration be based on new or different facts, circumstances, or law. A
party seeking reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory explanation for
the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time.”  (See C.C.P. §1008(a); New York Times
Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)
 
Discussion
Konnech met its burden to demonstrate the
instant motion is based on new or different circumstances, and a satisfactory
explanation of its failure to produce the evidence supporting this motion at an
earlier time.  Specifically, Konnech
demonstrated that it was not provided any notice of this action, and as a
result, neither Konnech nor any of its customers—whose data Konnech maintains
in confidence and which was included within the 350 Terabytes of data contained
on the Konnech Property that the LADA seized—were ever provided with any
opportunity to object to the subpoena or offer any evidence to oppose Petitioners’
Petition, which this Court granted on September 25, 2023.  (Decl. of Yu ¶8.)  
Further, Konnech presents the following
facts not previously before the Court:
(1) Konnech
had no contract in Georgia prior to September 9, 2022, and that contract (with
DeKalb County) was delayed and Konnech did not handle any DeKalb County poll
worker data until 2023, meaning that no Georgia-related data was on any Konnech
server seized by the LA DA in October 2022.  (Decl. of Yu ¶11).
(2)  Konnech has never received or stored any voter
registration identification information from any customer whatsoever.  (Decl. of Yu ¶12).
(3) Konnech
has never had software for a pollbook, and has never been affiliated with
KnowInk or Votem’s registration business.  (Decl. of Yu ¶13).
(4)  The Order requires the production of 350
Terabytes of highly sensitive confidential, proprietary, and privileged
information, including (1) the source code and proprietary information about
Konnech’s software products; (2) highly sensitive financial information about
the company; (3) confidential data entrusted to Konnech by cities and counties
across the country, the disclosure of which would cause competitive harm to
Konnech and could be used to illegally access the files that cities and
counties have created using Konnech software; and (4) literally every aspect of
Konnech’s business dating back to its inception in 2006.  (Decl. of Yu ¶¶5, 14).
(5) The Order
requires the production of personal identifying information of poll workers
unrelated to Georgia (including LA County poll workers) that Konnech maintains
as confidential, as well as the personal identifying information of Mr. Yu and
current and former Konnech employees.  (Decl.
of Yu ¶15).
(6) The Order
requires the production of attorney-client and work product privileged
communications between Konnech and its attorneys, including communications
related to Konnech’s lawsuit against the Election Deniers, as well as various
other business matters that Konnech’s lawyers routinely handle—none of which
Konnech has waived privilege to.  (Decl.
of Yu ¶16).
Accordingly, this Court grants Konnech’s
motion for reconsideration.
 
Conclusion
Konnech’s motion for reconsideration of
this Court’s September 25, 2023 Ruling on Petitioners’ petition to enforce
subpoena duces tecum is granted.  
Konnech is ordered to file its opposition
to the petition by December 21, 2023. 
Petitioners are ordered to file their reply by January 11, 2024.  The Court will hear the petition on Wednesday,
January 17, 2024, at 8:30 am.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  December
_____, 2023
                                                                             





  