  Case Number:  23SMCV03967    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           1239 23rd St.
Homeowners Association, v. Kurtzer
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03967
MOTION:                  Motion
for Order (Mootness, Prevailing Party, Att. Fees)
HEARING DATE:   10/23/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
With respect to attorney fees
and costs, unless they are specifically provided for by statute (e.g., CCP §§
1032, et seq.), the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties.¿(CCP
§ 1021.) The prevailing party on a contract, which specifically provides for
attorney fees and costs incurred to enforce the agreement, is entitled to
reasonable attorney fees in addition to other costs.¿(Civ. Code § 1717(a); CCP
§§ 1032, 1033.5(a)(10)(A).)¿The court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine the prevailing party and shall fix, as an element of the costs of
suit, the reasonable attorney fees.¿(Civ. Code § 1717(a), (b).)¿Any notice of
motion to claim attorney fees as an element of costs under shall be served and
filed before or at the same time the memorandum of costs is served and filed;
if only attorney fees are claimed as costs, the notice of motion shall be
served and filed within the time specified in CRC 3.1700 for filing a
memorandum of costs.¿(CRC 3.1702; Gunlock Corp. v. Walk on Water, Inc.
(1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1303, fn. 1.) 
 
“It is well established that
the determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to
the discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the
absence of an abuse of discretion. [Citation.]” (Melnyk v. Robledo
(1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623 624.) The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily “begins with the ‘lodestar’ [method], i.e., the number of hours
reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (Graciano v.
Robinson Ford Sales, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 154.) “[A]
computation of time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is
fundamental to a determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee award.” (Margolin
v. Reg’l Planning Comm’n (1982) 134 Cal.App.3d 999, 1004.) The lodestar
figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the
case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided. (See Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49 [discussing
factors relevant to proper attorneys’ fees award].) Such an approach anchors
the trial court’s analysis to an objective determination of the value of the
attorney’s services, ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary. (Id.
at 48, fn. 23.) The factors considered in determining the modification of the
lodestar include “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2)
the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of
the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent
nature of the fee award.” (Mountjoy v. Bank of Am. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 266, 271.) 
 
In challenging attorney fees as
excessive because too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the
challenging party to point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient
argument and citations to the evidence.¿(Premier Medical Management Systems,
Inc. v. California Ins. Guaranty Assoc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550,
564.)¿General arguments that fees claimed are excessive, duplicative, or
unrelated do not suffice. (Ibid.) 

 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff 1239 23rd Street Homeowners
Association and Cross Defendants 1239 23'd Street Homeowners Association and Camila
Arnold (collectively, the "HOA") move for an order:
 
1. Determining that this action is
moot because the relief demanded by the Complaint has been obtained through
this Court's preliminary injunction and the performance of the termite
eradication at the subject property; 
2. Determining that plaintiff and
cross-defendants be deemed the prevailing party in that plaintiff obtained the
relief demanded in the Complaint; and
3. Awarding attorneys fees and
costs to plaintiff and cross defendants as the prevailing
parties in the action in the amount of $13,376.23.
 
Civil Code section 5975 provides in
pertinent part: “(c) In an action to enforce the governing documents, the
prevailing party shall be awarded reasonable attorney's fees and costs.” A prevailing party means a party which “prevailed
on a practical level by achieving its main litigation objectives.” (Almanor
Lakeside Villas Owners Assn. v. Carson (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.)
A court must “compare the relief awarded on the… claims with the parties’
demands on those same claims and their litigation objectives as disclosed by
the pleadings, trial briefs, opening statements, and similar sources.” (Hsu
v. Abbarra (1995) 9 Cal.4th 863, 876.)  
 
The HOA sought to enforce its
governing documents against Kurtzer in order to perform necessary termite
eradication at the Property. (Compl., ¶¶ 5, 11-12.) Despite her obligations
under the governing documents, Kurtzer refused to allow any home inspector in
her unit or to allow plaintiff the ability to enter her unit or take any other reasonably
necessary actions to complete the remediation. (Compl., ¶¶ 7-8, 12.) The
complaint prayed for relief under Civil Code sections 4780 and 4785, which
provide that an association is responsible for repair and maintenance of the
condo project occasioned by the presence of termites, and that the court may
cause the "summary removal" of any occupant as may be necessary for
prompt, effective treatment of wood-destroying pests or organisms. Further, Plaintiff
requested the temporary, summary removal of Kurtzer from her unit for the
purpose of "prompt, effective treatment of wood-destroying pests or
organisms." (Compl., ¶ 13.) 
 
Kurtzer, on the other hand, filed a
cross-complaint (CC) against the HOA and Arnold for failing to first make
attempts to resolve this dispute in alternative dispute resolution. (CC ¶¶
9-14.) Further, the CC requested an injunction to prevent certain proposed
“heat treatment” for eradication. (¶¶ 16-19) The CC also requested an
injunction to move HOA board meetings from Wednesday evenings so that Kurtzer
may attend. (¶ 33.) The CC has been voluntarily dismissed. 
 
The parties litigated and resolved
the central termite eradication issue. On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff applied
ex parte pursuant to Civil Code section 4785 for an order compelling Kurtzer to
allow the termite eradication. On January 11, 2024, plaintiff filed another ex
parte application to enforce the Court's prior Order. The Court found that Kurtzer
was willfully undermining the Court's prior order by intimidating and
threatening the exterminators during the pre-treatment inspection. The Court restrained
Kurtzer from interfering with the termite treatment. On February 7, 2024,
Kurtzer filed an ex parte application for an order prohibiting Plaintiff from
proceeding with any heat treatment in her condo unit. The Court denied the
application. Finally, on February 9, 2024, the termite eradication was
completed, albeit without the heat treatment in Kurtzer’s unit. (Arnold Decl.,
¶¶10-12.) Instead, a less efficient method was chosen, which caused the
exterminator to decline to provide a standard 5-year warranty against termites
and only offer a 1-year warranty. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff claims to have prevailed
because it obtained injunctive orders that secured the main relief it sought –
termite eradication. Notably, Defendant had to be repeatedly restrained from
interfering with the eradication team and the eradication eventually went
forward. Strictly speaking, this was what the complaint requested. Further, Defendant
dismissed her own cross-complaint in response to an anti-SLAPP motion. These
facts suggest Plaintiff prevailed.
 
Defendant argues that, practically
speaking, this dispute did not concern termite eradication itself but the method
of termite eradication. Notably, Arnold explains the three other members of the
HOA wanted heat treatment for the extermination, while Kurtzer wanted
fumigation only. (Arnold Decl., ¶ 5.) The parties ultimately did not have all
the units treated at once with the heat treatment, and instead had to
separately fumigate Defendant’s unit. (Id., ¶12.) Defendant reasons that in a
practical sense Plaintiff did not achieve its litigation goal against Defendant
of obtaining heat treatment for Unit 4.  
 
Plaintiff’s primary litigation goal
was not to secure heat treatment for Defendant’s unit, but to secure any
termite extermination for Defendant’s unit. Notably, the complaint does not
request any specific method of extermination. The injunction likewise did not
seek any particular method. Defendant did not oppose any of the injunctions on
the grounds that only heat treatment should be considered. Defendant argues
that this was her own litigation objective. Indeed, Defendant’s cross-complaint
and February 7, 2024, ex parte application requested such relief. However, Defendant’s
litigation goal of preventing heat treatment does not mean Plaintiff’s
litigation goal was to secure heat treatment. The record only reveals
Plaintiff’s more general goal, to secure termite eradication. 
 
Since Plaintiff’s primary
litigation goal was to secure termite eradication for Defendant’s unit, and
Defendant’s unit underwent termite eradication, Plaintiff has achieved its
litigation goals on a practical level. Therefore, Plaintiff is entitled to
attorneys’ fees and costs. Plaintiff demonstrates that it incurred fees of
$13,376.23 and costs of $703.90, aside from previously awarded fees. Plaintiff
provides verified billing records in support of the fee. (Shapero Decl., ¶¶ 6-8,
Ex. C.) Using the lodestar method, and examining the totality of the record, Plaintiff’s
fee request is reasonable.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is determined to be the prevailing party for recovering non-monetary
relief. Plaintiff is awarded fees and costs in the noticed total amount of $14,080.13.
 
The matter is deemed completed by
the Court.