 This is a habitability matter.  On July 31, 2023, Plaintiffs Flavius Vamos, David Vamos, Rebeca Vamos, and Raluca Vamos filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Park Sierra Properties II and GHP Management Corporation. Defendants answered on November 7, 2023.   Plaintiffs now seek a trial preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b).Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b) states, “A civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject to this subdivision.”Here, the minor children, David and Rebeca, are under the age of fourteen and have a substantial interest as a whole in this matter as tenants of the subject premises, who have allegedly been exposed to “toxic mold exposure, water intrusion, water leaks, water damage and excessive moisture, roach feces, insect infestations, including but not limited to cockroach infestations and lack of insect control, pollution from roach feces, damaged or deteriorated carpeting, holes in ceilings and/or interior walls, and other habitability deficiencies.”  There is some evidence that they suffer from breathing issues, congestion, allergies, coughing, sneezing, runny nose, watery eyes, and emotional distress.  Therefore, Plaintiffs are entitled to a trial preference in this matter under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b).Defendants argue that their due process rights will be violated because they answered the Complaint “two-and-a-half months ago and only retained their present counsel three-and-a-half months ago.”  Defendants contend that they need time for discovery and to file a summary judgment motion.  The language of Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b), however, is mandatory, and the Court doesn’t see why counsel need so much time to prepare for a run-of-the-mill habitability matter with three causes of action.  Either the property was defective or it wasn’t.    Defendants’ argument that the minor children do not have a substantial interest in this matter because they don’t pay rent is not substantiated by logic or authority.Defendants also request “a shortened notice period, and that hearings on motions may be scheduled up to the first day of trial.”  The Court will not make any broad proclamations at this time.The Motion for Trial Preference is granted.  The trial date is set for May 29, 2024.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 