 Case Number:  23STCV07444    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 24, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Nicole Management, LLC v. B-Side Group,
LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV07444            
 
DEMURRER
TO CROSS-COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendants Nicole Management, LLC, Masoud
Omrany, and Ramin Omrany
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Cross-Complainants
B-Side Group, LLC, Gerald Aschoff, and Todd Hughes
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/03/23: Complaint filed.
·        
10/17/23: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of a rental contract. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to pay rent on a commercial lease agreement. 
 
Cross-Defendants Nicole Management,
LLC, Masoud Omrany, and Ramin Omrany demur and move to strike the
cross-complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            This
ruling is without prejudice to a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
 
            Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is MOOT. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint
 
            Cross-Defendants
move to strike the Cross-Complaint in its entirety. As the motion asserts
serious procedural defects with the Cross-Complaint, the Court addresses the
Motion to Strike first. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.§ 437.) “When the
defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court
should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) This provision may be used for "the
striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in the
procedures pursuant to which it was filed."  (Ferraro v.
Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).)
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process
is not grounds to grant or deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(4).)
 
            The
Declaration of Cross-Defendant’s counsel asserts that he met with
Cross-Complainants’ counsel at an unspecified date and time via telephone to
resolve the issues, but that the issues were not resolved. This vague
declaration does not satisfy Cross-Defendants’ meet-and-confer obligations.
Nevertheless, the Court will consider the motion on its merits. 
 
Analysis
 
            Cross-Defendants
move to strike the Cross-Complaint on the grounds that it is untimely filed
without leave of Court.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 428.50 states that “[a] party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(a).) Cross-Complainants
Aschoff and Hughes filed their answer on June 29, 2023. Cross-Complainant
B-Side Group, LLC never responded to the Complaint and defaulted on August 1,
2023, and the Cross-Complaint was filed on October 17, 2023. 
 
            Cross-Complainants
contend that the Cross-Complaint is timely because it also names Masoud and
Ramin Omrany, who were not parties to the original Complaint, as
Cross-Defendants, citing subdivision (b) of the same statute. This provision
states that “[a]ny other cross-complaint” besides one against a party to the
action “may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(b).) Case law is silent on the construction of these
two provisions where a cross-complaint names both a Plaintiff and third parties
as cross-defendants. However, statutory construction requires that a more
particular provision controls over a general provision. (Civ. Code § 1859.) Since
subdivision (a) places more stringent requirements on when a cross-complaint
may be filed and specifically applies to cross-complaints where a plaintiff is
named as a cross-defendant, the Court finds that subdivision (a) controls in
this instance. Thus, the Court finds that this Cross-Complaint could not be
filed without leave after the answer was filed. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(c).) Since
leave to file this pleading was never sought, the Cross-Complaint is improper. 
 
            More
gravely, Cross-Defendants argue with considerable force that the
Cross-Complaint is improper because it is filed on behalf of B-Side Group, LLC,
a party who defaulted on August 1, 2023. Cross-Complainants contend that the
Cross-Complaint is nevertheless proper notwithstanding B-Side Group’s default
because the claims in the Cross-Complaint are derivative claims by the
individual Cross-Complainants. Even so, as the Cross-Complaint is untimely and
filed without leave of Court, the Cross-Complaint must be stricken. 
 
            As
the Cross-Complaint was filed without leave of Court and one of the parties
purporting to bring the cross-complaint is in default, the Cross-Complaint must
be stricken as improper and untimely. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
 
            Because the
Court has stricken the Cross-Complaint as improperly filed, the Court does not
reach the arguments raised in Cross-Defendants’ demurrer, as the Demurrer is
MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            This
ruling is without prejudice to a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
 
            Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is MOOT. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 24, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 