  Case Number:  22STCV13087    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 24, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Albert Santa v. Sky Asset Management
Group, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV13087            
 
MOTION
TO RESCIND SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Albert Santa
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Sky
Asset Management, Inc. and Sky Remodeling, Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/19/22: Complaint filed.
·        
12/20/23: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is an employment
discrimination action. Plaintiff alleges that his employer discriminated
against him based on his religion and retaliated against him for complaining
about being assaulted by a co-worker.
 
Plaintiff moves to rescind a
settlement agreement purportedly reached by the parties. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Rescind
Settlement Agreement is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to rescind a
settlement agreement purportedly entered into by the parties. 
 
The relevant facts are these: on
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff and his spouse attended a hearing for an unlawful
detainer action regarding their eviction from the property at which he worked
and resided. (Declaration of Albert Santa ISO Ex Parte App. filed March 12,
2024 ¶ 3; Declaration of Janneth Ortega ISO Ex Parte App. filed March 12, 2024
¶ 2.) On February 27, 2024, following a recommendation from the Judge in the
unlawful detainer matter, Plaintiff and his spouse met with Reza Haghshenas,
Defendant’s principal, in public without counsel present. (Santa Decl. ¶ 5,
Ortega Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff states that Haghshenas asserted that he never
intended to file the unlawful detainer, that he was forced to do so by counsel,
that Defendant had no assets and were going to file for bankruptcy, and that
Plaintiff’s counsel would not be able to receive anything. (Santa Decl. ¶ 5.) Hagshenas
also stated that Tzivika Diner, president of Sky Remodeling, would “go after
[Plaintiff’s] entire family and get his money one way or another.” (Id.)
Haghshenas also represented that Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to convey
multiple settlement offers to Plaintiff. (Id.) On February 29, 2024,
Haghshenas and Plaintiff met again at Haghshenas’s office, where he told
Plaintiff that Plaintiff’s counsel had been offered $50,000 to settle the case
and had not informed Plaintiff. (Santa Decl. ¶ 6.) Haghshenas told Plaintiff to
fire his attorneys so they could settle the case themselves. (Id.) On
March 5, 2024, while in court waiting for a hearing on the unlawful detainer
action, Haghshenas offered Plaintiff $25,000 if he would fire his counsel and
settle both cases then and there. (Id. ¶ 7.) The parties then entered,
during the unlawful detainer hearing, a global settlement of both cases whereby
Defendants would pay Plaintiff $25,000, forgo outstanding rent, and seal the
unlawful detainer action in exchange for Plaintiff moving out of the property
by March 6, 2024, and a mutual release of claims. (Santa Decl. Exh. 3.) 
 
Plaintiff’s attorneys state categorically
that they had no knowledge of any of these events until they learned from
Defendant’s counsel that the parties had apparently reached a settlement.
(Declaration of Kristina Unanyan ISO Mot. ¶ 12, Exh. 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel
also expressly state that they presented every settlement offer from Defendants
to Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 2 [second].) 
 
Plaintiff seeks to rescind the
settlement agreement on the basis that it was improperly procured by duress,
menace, and undue influence.
 
A party to a contract may rescind
the contract “[i]f the consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly
contracting with him, was given by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace,
fraud, or undue influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as
to whom he rescinds, or of any other party to the contract jointly interested
with such party.” (Civ. Code § 1689(b).) “Duress” consists of, inter alia, unlawful
confinement of the person of the party, or of their spouse or family, or unlawful
detention of their property. (Civ. Code § 1569.) “Menace” is a threat of
duress, of unlawful and violent injury to person or property, or of injury to character.
(Civ. Code § 1570.) 
 
Here, there are no facts that
disclose actual duress insofar as Plaintiff, his family and their property were
not unlawfully confined. Plaintiff states, however, that Haghshenas threatened that
Defendant Sky Asset would target Plaintiff and his family if the parties did
not reach a settlement. In opposition, Defendants assert without specifics that
Haghshenas never threatened Plaintiff. However, Mr. Haghshenas’s declaration only
describes the discussions between the parties in general terms and without specific
dates. (Haghshenas Decl. ¶¶ 6-9.) The Court concludes there was actual duress,
finding Haghshenas’s general denials to be less credible than Plaintiff’s detailed
testimony of the discussions which took place. 
 
Moreover, although neither
Plaintiff nor Defendants directly address the issue, Plaintiff’s testimony also
shows fraudulent inducement into the agreement through Haghshenas’s
misrepresentation that Plaintiff’s counsel had not conveyed prior settlement
offers to him. (Santa Decl. ¶ 6, Unanyan Decl. ¶ 2[second].) Haghshenas used
this false information to cast aspersions on the loyalty of Plaintiff’s counsel
and to urge Plaintiff to fire his counsel and reach a settlement without their
involvement.  (Santa Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
Defendant also argues that the
settlement should not be rescinded because Plaintiff has received a pecuniary
benefit and Defendants have had to incur out-of-pocket expenses to remove
belongings left in the unit, and thereby have detrimentally relied on the
agreement. This argument is not persuasive since rescission, by definition,
restores the parties to status quo ante, and thereby would not permit
Plaintiff to avail himself of any monetary benefit. As to Defendants’ own loss,
the Court is not inclined to maintain a settlement that was improperly procured
merely because Defendants incurred a small cost in apparent reliance on
achieving that settlement. 
 
Defendants also argue that the
settlement should not be rescinded because the record has been sealed, and
Defendants cannot disgorge that remedy. This argument is specious. The sealing
order plainly provides that it may be rescinded by order of the Court. If such
a measure is appropriate, the Court has the power to impose it. 
 
In light of these facts which
strongly suggest that the settlement agreement was secured by menace and fraud,
the Court finds good cause to rescind the settlement. Because the Court reaches
this conclusion on the basis of fraud and menace, it does not address
Plaintiff’s claim of undue influence. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
                Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion
to Rescind Settlement Agreement is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 24,
2024.                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 