 Case Number:  23STCV11610    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 24, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Roberto Diaz, et al. v. Krystal Alfaro
Canty
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11610            
 
DEMURRER
TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Krystal Alfaro Canty
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Roberto
Diaz, Skin Body Lounge, LLC, and Skin Body Lounge Med Spa, Inc. 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/22/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/18/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
02/27/24: Second Amended Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and conversion. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant failed to adhere to an oral agreement between the parties
and misappropriated corporate assets and trade secrets. 
 
Defendant demurs to portions of the
Second Amended Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant demurs to portions of the
Second Amended Complaint. 
 
Missing Proof of Service
 
            The Court
observes that Defendant did not provide a proof of service with the moving
papers for this demurrer. However, since Plaintiffs responded to the demurrer
and do not object that the demurrer was improperly served, the Court finds this
deficiency was not prejudicial.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint; (2) the
Demurrer to the Complaint; (3) the First Amended Complaint; and (4) the
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. Defendant’s requests are GRANTED
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records).
 
            Defendant
has not provided a declaration describing her efforts to informally resolve
this dispute and has not complied with her statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. However, as failure to comply with this requirement does not bear
on the disposition of the demurrer, the Court addresses Defendant’s demurrer on
its merits.
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Lease
 
            Defendant
demurs to the first cause of action for breach of a lease agreement on the
grounds that it violates the statute of frauds and therefore fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            Under the
statute of frauds, codified in section 1624 of the Civil Code, certain
transactions, including, as relevant here, an agreement that cannot be
performed within one year of its execution, must be reduced to writing and
subscribed by the party to be charged to be enforceable. (Civ. Code § 1624(a)(3).)  However, equitable estoppel permits
enforcement of an oral agreement to prevent fraud when one party has
detrimentally relied on an oral promise or another party has been unjustly
enriched. (Juran v. Epstien (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 882, 892). Equitable
estoppel may preclude a statute of frauds defense. (Byrne v. Laura
(1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1054, 1068). Whether the doctrine of equitable estoppel
should be applied in a given case is a question of fact. (Id.)
 
            Defendant
contends that the statute of frauds bars the first cause of action because it
expressly seeks to recover on an oral contract with a seven-year term. (SAC ¶
8.) In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the Second Amended Complaint alleges
that Defendant was unjustly enriched and that Plaintiffs have pled sufficient
facts to argue that Defendant is equitably estopped from asserting the statute
of frauds. In reply, Defendant argues that the Complaint does not allege a
change in position by the Plaintiffs.  Close
examination of the Second Amended Complaint supports Plaintiffs’ argument and
belies Defendant’s contention. Plaintiffs allege that, notwithstanding the oral
agreement, Defendant has failed to pay her half of the rent, which Plaintiff
Diaz has been forced to cover. (SAC ¶ 9.) Put differently and construed in the
light most favorable to Plaintiffs, Diaz alleges that he relied upon
Defendant’s promise in entering into the lease agreement and has been forced to
incur pecuniary losses as a result of Defendant’s nonperformance of the
agreement. The Court finds this allegation sufficient to assert a defense to
the statute of frauds for the purposes of a demurrer. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of Loan Agreement
 
            Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for breach of a loan agreement on the
grounds that it violates the statute of frauds and therefore fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            Defendant
argues that the agreement to pay half of the payments on the underlying loan
agreement is likewise subject to the statute of frauds because, by its terms,
payments would not begin for 12 months from the date of the note and would
continue for thirty years. (SAC ¶¶ 10, Exh. B. p.2) However, close reading of
the Second Amended Complaint shows that Plaintiffs allege that they have been
forced to cover the loan payments as a result of Defendant’s failure to adhere
to the oral agreement. (SAC ¶ 10.) Thus, for the reasons stated above with
respect to the first cause of action, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have
stated sufficient facts to assert equitable estoppel as a defense to the
statute of frauds. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 24, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 