  Case Number:  22STCV18966    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 14, 2023                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Yvette Espiritu v. TPX Communications,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV18966            
 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Yvette Espiritu
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant TPX
Communications.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/09/22: Complaint filed. 
·        
11/27/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for disability discrimination and wage and hour
violations. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants wrongfully terminated her for
taking an extended medical leave of absence. 
 
Plaintiff moves for a protective
order limiting Defendant TPX Communication’s special interrogatories.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Protective
Order is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for a protective
order limiting Defendant TPX Communication’s special interrogatories.
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Before filing
a motion for a protective order, Defendant is required to file a declaration
stating his efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to resolve this
dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve informally
the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2016.040.)
 
The Declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel filed in support of this motion states that the parties met and
conferred electronically between October 4, 2023 and October 10, 2023.
(Declaration of Angela Leong ISO Mot. Exhs. F-G.) The parties’ correspondence
shows that Defendant categorically refused Plaintiff’s request to withdraw the
disputed interrogatories and made no counteroffer in response to Plaintiff’s
offer to make herself available for deposition in lieu of responding to the
disputed interrogatories. (See Id.) The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiff satisfied her statutory meet and confer obligation but was unable to
reach a resolution with Defendant.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff moves for a protective
order limiting Defendant TPX Communication’s special interrogatories.
 
Plaintiff brings this motion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.040, which authorizes a party responding
to interrogatories to seek a protective order under section 2030.090 on the
grounds that the propounding party propounded more than 35 special
interrogatories without justification. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.040(a).) Section
2030.090 authorizes the Court to issue a protective order “to protect any party
or other natural person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.090(b).) A
protective order under this section may include but is not limited to one or
more of the following orders:
 
(1) That the set of
interrogatories, or particular interrogatories in the set, need not be
answered.
 
(2) That, contrary to
the representations made in a declaration submitted under Section 2030.050, the
number of specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted.
 
(3) That the time
specified in Section 2030.260 to respond to the set of interrogatories, or to
particular interrogatories in the set, be extended.
 
(4) That the response
be made only on specified terms and conditions.
 
(5) That the method of
discovery be an oral deposition instead of interrogatories to a party.
 
(6) That a trade
secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information
not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a certain way.
 
(7) That some or all
of the answers to interrogatories be sealed and thereafter opened only on order
of the court.
 
(Id.) For a motion brought challenging the number of special
interrogatories, the propounding party bears the burden of justifying the
number of interrogatories. 
 
            Defendant propounded
84 special interrogatories to Plaintiff on September 19, 2023. (Leong Decl. ¶
2.) Attached to the interrogatories was a declaration from Defendant’s counsel
stating that the number of interrogatories were warranted because of “the
complexity and the quantity of the existing and potential issues involved in
this particular case.” (Id. Exh. A.) Plaintiff objected to
Interrogatories 36 through 84 as unwarranted because the supporting declaration
did not adequately justify the additional interrogatories pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.050. Defendant, in opposition, asserts that the
declaration is code compliant. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.050 sets forth the requirements for the supporting declaration which must
be provided if the party propounds more than 35 special interrogatories. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.050.) These requirements include, inter alia, a
statement as to whether the greater number of questions is warranted because of
(1) the complexity or the quantity of the existing and potential issues in the
particular case; (2) the financial burden on a party entailed in conducting the
discovery by oral deposition; or (3) the expedience of using this method of
discovery to provide to the responding party the opportunity to conduct an
inquiry, investigation, or search of files or records to supply the information
sought. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.040(a); 2030.050(8).) The declaration must
also set forth the reasons why any of the above factors relied upon by the
propounding party is applicable to the instant lawsuit. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.050(8).) Defendant’s declaration provided no reasoning whatsoever for
additional interrogatories beyond a rote recitation of the first factor set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.040(a). (Leong Decl. Exh. A. p.
17.) This does not constitute compliance, substantial or otherwise, with the
requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
            That said, Defendant’s
opposition briefing and meet and confer correspondence provide further
information demonstrating how the quantity of issues in this case warrants
additional interrogatories. As Defendant states, Plaintiff has alleged a total
of fifteen causes of action in the First Amended Complaint. Moreover, the
parties agree that Defendant’s Special Interrogatories seek basic facts and
identification of documents and witnesses that tend to support Plaintiff’s
causes of action or the key factual allegations in the pleadings. Many of these
interrogatories, as Plaintiff states, overlap broadly with form interrogatories
which could have been propounded, or concern documents that could have been
sought by way of a request for production. (Compare, e.g., Leong Decl. Exh. A
Nos. 79-84 with Exh. B. No. 15.1.) However, that contention is a double-edged
sword, as Plaintiff cannot claim that special interrogatories are unduly
burdensome or harassing if they overlap with virtually identical form
interrogatories that were not propounded. Nor can she argue that a request to
identify documents is unduly burdensome and harassing when Defendant could have
instead sought production of those documents. 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has provided adequate
justification for additional special interrogatories such that a protective
order is not warranted.
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel
for misuse of the discovery process. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the Court to impose
monetary sanctions on any attorney engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process by requiring that attorney to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030.) Moreover, the
Court “shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.090(d).) 
 
            The Court
does not find sanctions to be warranted in this instance. It is true that Defendant
demonstrated good cause for the additional interrogatories in its opposition,
and Plaintiff failed to demonstrate any harm or prejudice that would result
from those interrogatories. However, Defendant precipitated this dispute by
serving a facially deficient declaration in support of additional
interrogatories and refused to compromise or cure the defect when Plaintiff exercised
her statutory right to object to the excess interrogatories. The Court is not
inclined to reward Defendant for its own intransigence. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 14, 2023                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 