 Case Number:  22STCV29709    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 14, 2023                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         George Adam Adamian, individually and as
Trustee of the George Adamian Living Trust v. Paul Krzemuski, as Trustee of the
Violette Krzemuski AKA Violette Adamian 2013 Family Trust
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV29709            
 
DEMURRER
TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Paul Krzemuski, as Trustee of the Violette
Krzemuski AKA Violette Adamian 2013 Family Trust
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff George
Adam Adamian, individually and as Trustee of the George Adamian Living Trust
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/12/22: Complaint filed.
·        
04/18/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
09/08/23: Second Amended Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a quiet title action. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
improperly foreclosed on a parcel of real property owned by Plaintiff using a
fraudulent deed of trust. 
 
Defendant demurs to the Second
Amended Complaint in its entirety and moves to strike portions of the Second
Amended Complaint.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
 
            Defendant
demurs to the Second Amended Complaint in its entirety.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Daniel J.
Enowitz in support of this motion states that he met and conferred with
Plaintiff’s counsel electronically on September 27, 2023 and telephonically on
October 5, 2023. (Declaration of Daniel J. Enowitz ISO Demurrer. ¶¶ 3-4.)  The parties were unable to resolve this
dispute. (Id. ¶ 5.) The Court therefore finds that Defendant has
satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) The Debtors’ First Amended
Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization filed on July 8, 2005 in In Re: George
Adamian and Alice Adamian, U.S. Bankruptcy Court Case No. LA 03-37003 ER;
(2) the Order Confirming Debtors’ First Amended Chapter 11 Plan of
Reorganization filed December 1, 2005 in the above action; (3) the Notice of
Motion and Motion for Entry of Final Decree Closing Debtors’ Chapter 11 Case
and accompanying papers filed January 12, 2009 in the above action; and (4) the
Court’s July 17, 2023 Minute Order in this action. Defendant’s requests are
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records).
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of a Notice of Default and
Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust recorded on August 30, 2023 in the
Recorder’s Office of Los Angeles County. As this document is not material to
the Court’s ruling, Plaintiff’s request is DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 [“[J]udicial notice .
. . is always confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at
hand.”].)
 
Validity of Lien
 
            Defendant
demurs to the Second Amended Complaint in its entirety for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The parties agree that all
causes of action asserted in the operative complaint except for the Second
Cause of Action for Financial Elder Abuse survive or fail together. The Court
therefore considers the first and third through sixth causes of action
together. 
 
Plaintiff’s original complaint
sought to set aside a deed of trust against a property owned by Plaintiff at
2709 E. South Street, Long Beach, California on the basis that he never
obtained a loan in 2001 from his sister, Violette Adamian, and never provided
the deed of trust to secure that loan. (Complaint ¶¶ 15-16.) Defendant
subsequently unearthed a 2005 First Amended Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization
filed by Plaintiff in a bankruptcy proceeding acknowledging the existence of
both the loan and deed of trust. (RJN Exh. 1.) Plaintiff’s Plan of
Reorganization set forth a 10-year payment schedule on the loan at a 10% annual
interest rate. (Id. pp. 7-8.) The Reorganization Plan was confirmed on
December 1, 2005, and the bankruptcy proceeding discharged. (RJN Exh. 2.)
Plaintiff requested formal closure of the bankruptcy case on January 28, 2009.
(RJN Exh. 3.) 
 
            After
discovering these records, Defendant demurred to the original Complaint.
Plaintiff, in lieu of opposition, amended the Complaint, acknowledging the
bankruptcy proceeding but alleging that the Plan of Reorganization extinguished
the lien created by the Deed of Trust. (FAC ¶ 36.) On July 17, 2023, the Court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety,
finding that Violette’s claim was included in the class of secured claims under
the Plan of Reorganization and was not extinguished by the Plan. (RJN Exh. 4.
p.8.) The Court also rejected Plaintiff’s argument that the Court should
exercise its equitable authority to cancel the deed of trust. (Id. pp.
8-9.) Nonetheless, the Court exercised its discretion to allow Plaintiff to
amend the Complaint. (Id. p.10.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Complaint asserts the same causes of action for Cancellation of
Written Instrument Under Civil Code § 3412, Financial Elder Abuse, Quiet Title,
Declaratory Relief, Injunctive Relief, and Slander of Title previously alleged,
but adds a new cause of action for Financial Elder Abuse. The new allegations
in the Second Amended Complaint repackage Plaintiff’s arguments asserted in
opposition to the previous Demurrer and to Defendant’s Motion to Modify
Preliminary Injunction. For example, Plaintiff alleges that the deed of trust
was extinguished by the Bankruptcy Court’s order approving the plan of
reorganization, and that the Court has the equitable power to cancel the deed
of trust. (SAC ¶¶ 99-100.) Defendant contends that these allegations are
fatally defective because they assert claims which the Court rejected in its
July 17 ruling. 
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, argues
that the Bankruptcy Court’s order “superseded” the Deed of Trust, and, even if
it did not, that the Court should exercise its equitable powers to cancel the
deed of trust. Plaintiff asks the Court to reconsider its prior ruling on this
issue. Reconsideration may only be sought as set forth by Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008 as either a motion for reconsideration, which must be
brought within 10 days of the prior order under subdivision (a) or a renewed
motion under subdivision (b). (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1008.)  In either case, Plaintiff would be required
to demonstrate new or different facts, circumstances, or law by
affidavit. (See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).) Plaintiff makes no attempt
to do so and instead challenges the Court’s interpretation of the facts,
records, and authorities set forth in the previous briefing and in the Court’s
prior rulings. This is not a basis for reconsideration. As to Plaintiff’s new
allegations of other misconduct by Violette Adamian in support of the equitable
argument to cancel the deed because the statute of limitations has run (see SAC
¶¶ 67-69), these allegations are irrelevant because the Court has already ruled
that Defendant’s putative power of sale as trustee would not be extinguished by
the running of any statute of limitations. (See May 19, 2023 Ruling on Matter
Taken Under Submission p. 5.) 
 
The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts establishing the invalidity of the lien such
that Plaintiff could state a cause of action for cancellation of written
instrument, quiet title, declaratory relief, injunctive relief, or slander of
title. Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the first, third, fourth, fifth,
and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Financial Elder Abuse
 
Defendant also demurs to the second
cause of action for financial elder abuse for failure to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Financial elder abuse occurs when a
person or entity “[t]akes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intend to defraud, or both.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30.) 
 
Defendant argues that the second
cause of action fails for the same reason as the other causes of action in that
it is predicated on the invalidity of Violette Adamian’s lien on the property
and the wrongfulness of the foreclosure. Plaintiff contends in opposition that
the second cause of action is sufficiently pled because it alleges an entire
pattern of conduct by Defendant seeking to wrongfully obtain the subject
property, of which the foreclosure was merely the climax. Certainly, the Second
Amended Complaint alleges a pattern of behavior oriented toward and culminating
in foreclosure on the subject property. However, Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim
presupposes that the attempt to foreclose on the property is wrongful because
the Deed of Trust was extinguished. (See SAC ¶¶ 111-112.) As the Court has
repeatedly found, the Deed of Trust and the underlying lien were not
extinguished. A lender does not take property for a wrongful use within the
meaning of the elder abuse statute by properly foreclosing on the lender’s
security for a loan. (Stebly vs. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 522, 528.) Since the lien remained valid, Defendant’s foreclosure
on the property could not be wrongful as a matter of law. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
The Court extended Plaintiff an
opportunity to allege new facts that would tend to support Plaintiff’s
interpretation of the bankruptcy documents. Instead, Plaintiff either repackaged
previous arguments and factual contentions in an attempt to escape the impact
of the Court’s prior rulings or simply challenged the Court’s conclusions
outright. Plaintiff thus implicitly concedes that it is not possible to amend
the pleadings to assert new factual contentions that cure the defects
identified herein. Further, although Plaintiff has not previously asserted an
elder abuse claim, it is apparent from the allegations brought in support of
that cause of action that the elder abuse claim is predicated on the same invalid
legal theory as the rest of the pleadings. The Court therefore finds that leave
to amend would be futile in this case. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. 
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
 
            Defendant
also moves to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. As the
Court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend, the Motion to
Strike is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 14,
2023                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 