  Case Number:  23STCV26388    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



J.P., an individual;
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EASTERN REVENUE, INC., a California Corporation; EMMANUEL
  UNIVERSITY, INC., a Georgia Corporation; KYLE SHANAHAN, an individual; MATT
  MCREE, an individual, JOANN S. HARPER, an individual; and DOES 1-30,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV26388
 Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Quash
  for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction (RES ID # 3282)
Motion to Quash and
  for Protective Order (RES ID # 6671)



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff J.P. (Joseph
Parker) sues Defendants Eastern Revenue, Inc. (Eastern Revenue), Emmanuel
University, Inc. (Emmanuel University), Kyle Shanahan (Eastern Revenue’s
President), Matt McRee, Joann S. Harper, and Does 1-30 pursuant to an October
30, 2023, Complaint alleging claims sounding in fraud, unfair business
practices, and breach of contract. As alleged by Plaintiff, the case arises
from a collection agency (Eastern Revenue) attempting to collect student loan
debt from an active duty soldier, in violation of the law.
B. Procedural History
On May 17, 2024, Emmanuel
University filed the Motion to Quash for lack of personal jurisdiction.
On May 31, 2024, Emmanuel
University filed the Motion to Quash and for Protective Order quashing the
Plaintiff’s first set of Requests for Admission and Notice of Deposition of
Person Most Knowledgeable. 
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff opposed
the Motion to Quash for lack of personal jurisdiction.
On July 12, 2024, Emmanuel
University replied.
On July 19, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing on the motion to quash service based on the cyber-attack on all
Superior Court systems, which prevented remote appearances or access to the
Court files. The matter was rescheduled for hearing on September 16, 2024, the same
day as the motion to quash discovery.
Specially Appearing Defendant
Emmanuel University’s Motions to Quash are now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Quash for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction:
GRANTED as to Defendant Emmanuel University, Inc.

A. Opposition Objections to Declaration
of Matthew Edmonds:
Objection Nos. 1-10: OVERRULED.
B. Opposition Objections to
Declaration of Brian James:
Objection Nos. 1-13: OVERRULED.
C. Procedural Issue
Plaintiff argues in his opposition that
Emmanuel University’s motion should be denied due to defective service. He
claims that Emmanuel University improperly served the motion to an incorrect
email address, shiloh.bentacourt@icloud.com, instead of Plaintiff’s counsel’s
correct address, shiloh@thesabfirm.com. Attorney Fisher, Emmanuel’s lawyer,
used OneLegal.com for service but failed to update the email address despite
having prior communication with Plaintiff’s counsel and being aware of the
correct address. This improper service mirrors a previous situation where the
court denied Plaintiff’s request for costs and fees due to similar service
issues. Additionally, Plaintiff states he never agreed to electronic service
with Emmanuel University. Moreover, Attorney Fisher has provided conflicting
email addresses, one with the State Bar of California (eric.Msher@btlaw.com [sic]) and another
on his pleadings (efisher@btlaw.com), complicating communication. Plaintiff
asserts that Fisher’s failure to update his information with the State Bar
violates his duty to ensure accurate contact details, and the court should
instruct him to correct this discrepancy.
In reply, Emmanuel University
argues that the service of its motion to quash was sufficient, contrary to
Plaintiff’s claims. It asserts that the issue of service to the email address
shiloh.bentacourt@icloud.com has already been addressed by the Court, and Plaintiff
appears to be raising this argument again possibly to justify submitting an
opposition brief one day late. Emmanuel University states that the purpose of
serving motions is to provide notice to counsel, which was achieved. The motion
was served through the Court’s electronic service provider, OneLegal, to the
email address shiloh.bentacourt@icloud.com. Emmanuel University points out that
Attorney Shiloh Bentacourt and Attorney Shiloh Parker share the same California
State Bar Number, implying both email addresses belong to Plaintiff’s counsel.
Therefore, serving either email address would effectively serve Plaintiff’s counsel.
Additionally, Emmanuel University provides evidence from the OneLegal system
showing that Attorney Parker viewed the motion when it was served in May.
Furthermore, Emmanuel University highlights that Plaintiff’s counsel has been
made aware of the motion through multiple means: it was available on the public
docket, referenced in every pleading served since, discussed in correspondence
regarding discovery requests, and mentioned during a June 25, 2024 hearing
where the Court discussed scheduling related to the motion to quash.
Given the fact that Plaintiff
received actual notice and there is no showing of prejudice, the Court will
consider the Motion to Quash.
D. Legal Standard
“A defendant, on or before the last
day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may
for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of
the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack
of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10,
subd. (a).) 
In California, courts are
authorized to “exercise jurisdiction over parties on any basis not inconsistent
with the Constitution of [California] or the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 410.10.) “Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) The
extent to which a California court may exercise jurisdiction over a defendant
depends on the nature and quality of that defendant’s contacts with the state. 
Nonresident defendants whose
commercial activities impact California on a substantial, continuous, and
systematic basis are subject to general jurisdiction in California. (See Vons
Companies, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 445-446.) However, if the defendant’s
activities in California are insufficient to justify the exercise of general
jurisdiction over him or her, then the cause of action must arise out of an act
done or transaction consummated in the forum such that the defendant may be
subject to specific jurisdiction. (Cornelison v. Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d
143, 147-148.) 
A plaintiff “bears the burden of
proof by a preponderance of evidence to demonstrate the defendant has
sufficient minimum contacts with the forum state to justify jurisdiction.” (Thomson
v. Anderson (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 258, 266.) The Court must assess each
defendant’s contacts with the forum state individually. (Anglo Irish Bank,
PLC v. Superior Court (Brar) (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969, 978.) 
1. General
Jurisdiction 
An individual is subject to general
jurisdiction in the state of their domicile; while for a corporation it is
where it is “fairly regarded as home.” (Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations,
S.A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 924 (Goodyear).) This is where
the corporation’s contacts are “so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render
[the defendant] essentially at home in the forum state.” (Daimler AG v.
Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 139 (Daimler AG).) In Goodyear
and Daimler AG, for corporations, the U.S. Supreme Court held that
general jurisdiction exists only in the defendant’s (1) state of incorporation
and (2) principal place of business. (See Goodyear, supra, 564
U.S. at p. 294; Daimler AG, supra, 571 U.S at p. 137.) 
California courts have held that
“designation of an agent for service of process and qualification to do
business in California alone are insufficient to permit general jurisdiction
except for lawsuits arising out of the foreign corporation's business conducted
in the state.” (DVI, Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080,
1095.) 
Emmanuel University contends that
it is not subject to general jurisdiction because Emmanuel University is a
Georgia nonprofit corporation with its principal place of business in Georgia. Plaintiff
incorrectly claims that Emmanuel University maintains its principal place of
business and headquarters in California. However, general jurisdiction can only
apply outside of a corporation’s place of incorporation and principal place of
business in exceptional cases where its operations in another state are substantial
enough to make it at home there. Emmanuel University states that Plaintiff has
not made such allegations in this case, nor can he. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Emmanuel University has intentionally misled the court regarding the law
on personal jurisdiction. In its moving documents, Emmanuel University cited to
Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 449,
to argue that “if a defendant’s contacts with the forum state are ‘continuous
and systematic’ or ‘substantial,’ the state has a sufficient relationship with
the defendant to assert ‘general’ jurisdiction.” Plaintiff contends this
citation is a misstatement of the law, that the accurate statement from the
case is that personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific, and that a
nonresident defendant can be subject to general jurisdiction if their contacts
with the forum state are “substantial, continuous, and systematic,” as
established in Perkins v. Benguet Consolidated Mining Co. (1952) 342
U.S. 437, 446, 446, and Helicopteros Nacionales de Colombia v. Hall
(1984) 46 U.S. 408, 414-415. In such cases, Plaintiff argues, it is not
necessary for the specific cause of action to be connected with the defendant’s
business relationship to the forum. 
Plaintiff argues that the Court has
general jurisdiction over Emmanuel University because its contacts with
California have been substantial, continuous, and systematic over the past ten
years. Emmanuel’s strategy, despite being a smaller private school, involves
substantial recruitment and enrollment efforts in California. Emmanuel
University conducts annual recruitment and orientations in Northern and
Southern California, confirmed by Emmanuel's admissions agent, Matthew Edmonds,
during a conversation with Alexis Garcia on May 7, 2024. Mr. Edmonds assured
Garcia that Emmanuel University admits students from California and invited her
to an orientation in Pasadena. Furthermore, Emmanuel University advertises to
students globally, including those in California. Mr. Edmonds waived Garcia's
application fee and directed her to the university’s website, which shows that Emmanuel
University admits students from California, over 30 states in the US, and more
than 22 foreign countries. 
Additionally, Plaintiff argues that
Emmanuel University actively recruits student-athletes from California, with
Mr. Edmonds stating that the university sends recruiters to California yearly
to recruit athletes, specifically mentioning the women’s wrestling team. Emmanuel
University also provides scholarships to students it recruits from California,
including full and partial scholarships, particularly for members of the
women’s wrestling team. Emmanuel University has successfully enrolled multiple
students from California due to its recruitment efforts, as evidenced by a list
of six California student-athletes currently enrolled at Emmanuel University who
received scholarships. Emmanuel University has been recruiting and enrolling
students from California for the past ten years, with Mr. Edmonds assuring
Garcia that many California students had joined the wrestling team in previous
years. 
According to Plaintiff, the number
of students recruited and enrolled from California is significant in comparison
to the total student body of around 800 per class. Emmanuel University’s advertising
and recruitment strategy targets not only California but students worldwide,
resulting in the enrollment of hundreds to thousands of California students and
generating millions in tuition dollars. The university’s continuous engagement
in these activities over a decade underscores the systemic nature of its contacts
with California. As a result, these extensive and ongoing connections are so
significant that California can be considered Emmanuel University’s home,
fulfilling the criteria for general jurisdiction as outlined in Daimler AG
v. Bauman. Plaintiff asserts that denying general jurisdiction would
unjustly prevent all current and former California students from pursuing
claims against Emmanuel University, which would be contrary to the interests of
justice.
In reply, Emmanuel University
argues that the court should grant its motion to quash because asserting
personal jurisdiction over the university, a Georgia corporation with its
principal place of business in Georgia, would violate its constitutional due
process rights and be inconsistent with California’s long-arm statute. Emmanuel
University contends that Plaintiff misrepresents the facts regarding the
university’s contacts with California. While Emmanuel University acknowledges
being a Georgia corporation, it disputes Plaintiff's claim of attending
recruiting fairs in California. Emmanuel University presents declarations from
its employees refuting Plaintiff’s assertions, stating that it does not conduct
recruitment sessions or orientations in California and has not done so in the
past five years. (See James Decl.) The university confirms that it accepts
students from various states, including California, but argues that this alone
does not establish personal jurisdiction. Emmanuel University asserts that its
contacts with California are insufficient for general personal jurisdiction.
General jurisdiction requires a defendant’s contacts with the forum state to be
so substantial and systematic that the state becomes akin to a home state, which
Emmanuel University argues is not the case here. Merely admitting students from
California does not meet this threshold. Emmanuel University also points out
that if general jurisdiction were based solely on admitting California students,
any out-of-state university could be subject to California jurisdiction,
contradicting established legal precedents.
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
not presented evidence to demonstrate that general jurisdiction of Emmanuel
University exists. From the evidence presented to the Court, general
jurisdiction of Emmanuel University does not exist because Emmanuel University’s
state of incorporation and its principal place of business is in Georgia. (James
Decl., ¶ 6; see Goodyear, supra, 564 U.S. at p. 294; Daimler
AG, supra, 571 U.S at p. 137.) 
2. Specific
Jurisdiction 
The California Supreme Court has
held that three requirements must be met before specific jurisdiction may be
exercised: (a) defendant purposefully availed himself of the forum benefits,
(b) the controversy is related to or arises from defendant’s contacts with
California, and (c) the assertion of jurisdiction would comport with fair play
and substantial justice. (Pavlovich v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262,
269.) “A plaintiff opposing a defendant’s motion to quash service has the
burden of establishing factor Nos. (1) (the defendant’s purposeful availment)
and (2) (lawsuit relates to the defendant’s contacts with state).” (People
ex rel. Harris v. Native Wholesale Supply Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 357,
362, citing Bridgestone Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th
767, 774].) “If the plaintiff does so, the burden then shifts to the defendant
to show factor No. (3), that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.” (Ibid.) 
“The nonresident defendant must
have purposefully directed its activities at forum residents, or purposefully
availed itself of the privilege of conducting activities within the forum
state, thus invoking the benefits and protections of local law.” (Weil &
Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 3:226.) When
individuals “purposefully derive benefit” from their interstate activities, it
is unfair to allow such individuals to escape having to account for their
activities in the state from which they purposefully derived a benefit, for the
consequences that arise from such activities. (Burger King (1985) 471
U.S. 462, 471-74.) Minimum contacts can be electronic or created through the
use of the telephone, mail, or e-mail. (Hall v. LaRonde (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 1342, 1344, 1346-1347.) What is important “is that the defendant’s
conduct and connection with the forum State are such that he should reasonably
anticipate being haled into court there.” (World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v.
Woodson (1980) 444 U.S. 286, 297.) 
“[E]ven where other parties
involved in the action have considerable contacts with California, if the
nonresident defendant did not evidently intend to conduct business in
California or in any other way directly or indirectly gain from California
dealings, the purpose of the other parties cannot be imputed to the nonresident
defendant for the purpose of assuming personal jurisdiction over him.
[Citation.] Thus, “... jurisdiction over a nonresident must be based on an
analysis of the relationship between that defendant and the forum state.
[Citation.]” [Citation.]” (Edmunds v. Superior Court (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 221, 231.) 
“‘The purposeful availment inquiry
... focuses on the defendant’s intentionality. [Citation.] This prong is only
satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs his
activities toward the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of the benefit
he receives, to be subject to the court’s jurisdiction based on’ his contacts
with the forum. [Citation.] Thus, the “‘purposeful availment’ requirement
ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a
result of ‘random,’ ‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts [citations], or of
the ‘unilateral activity of another party or a third person.’ [Citations.]”
[Citation.] “When a [defendant] ‘purposefully avails itself of the privilege of
conducting activities within the forum State,’ [citation], it has clear notice
that it is subject to suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of
burdensome litigation by procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to
customers, or, if the risks are too great, severing its connection with the
State.” [Citation.]” (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 269.) 
To determine if the defendant has
sufficient forum contacts, a forum selection clause of choice of law provision
in the parties’ agreement can be examined. (Halyard Health, Inc. v.
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1062, 1076 (holding that
Delaware choice of law forum reflected a “deliberate affiliation with
Delaware,” the parties’ state of incorporation, and finding insufficient
minimum contacts).) Further, courts will look to the totality of the
defendant’s contacts with a state, and in controversies arising from the
ownership interest in a corporation in the forum state, courts have held that
“ownership of a subsidiary alone does not constitute purposeful availment.” (Healthmarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.) 
“Specific jurisdiction depends on
the quality and nature of the defendant’s forum contacts in relation to the
particular cause of action alleged. [Citation.]” (Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
PLC v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969, 978.) 
“A controversy is related to or
arises out of the defendant's forum contacts, so as to satisfy the second
requirement for the exercise of specific personal jurisdiction, if there is “a
substantial connection between the forum contacts and the plaintiff's claim.”
[Citation.] The forum contacts need not be the proximate cause or “but for”
cause of the alleged injuries. [Citation.] The forum contacts also need not be
“substantively relevant” to the cause of action, meaning those contacts need
not establish or support an element of the cause of action. [Citation.] “A
claim need not arise directly from the defendant's forum contacts in order to
be sufficiently related to the contact to warrant the exercise of specific
jurisdiction. Rather, as long as the claim bears a substantial connection to
the nonresident's forum contacts, the exercise of specific jurisdiction is
appropriate.” [Citation.] Accordingly, in evaluating the quality and nature of
the defendant’s forum contacts, we consider not only the conduct directly
affecting the plaintiff, but also the broader course of conduct of which it is
a part. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 979.) 
Emmanuel University argues that the
Court lacks specific personal jurisdiction. First, Emmanuel University argues
that it has not purposefully availed itself of California. Purposeful availment
requires a substantial connection with the forum state through continuous
obligations. Emmanuel University neither transacts business in California nor
is registered to do so. It does not own, rent, or lease property, maintain bank
accounts, enroll distance learning students, employ California residents, or
participate in recruiting programs in California. Second, Emmanuel University
contends that the controversy does not arise from its contacts with California.
Plaintiff’s allegations primarily involve the refusal to provide an agreement
with a collection agency and the purported destruction of such an agreement,
which do not have a substantial nexus with California. Third, even if minimum
contacts were established, Emmanuel University argues that asserting
jurisdiction would be unreasonable. The university’s lack of meaningful
contacts with California and the absence of any substantial nexus between its
actions and the state further support this claim.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the Court has specific jurisdiction over Emmanuel University based on the
university’s purposeful availment of doing business in California, the
controversy’s relationship to Emmanuel University’s contacts in California, and
the reasonableness of exercising jurisdiction. Emmanuel University has
deliberately engaged in business in California by conducting recruitment
efforts and orientations, advertising to California students, and targeting
student-athletes. Over the past ten years, Plaintiff contends that Emmanuel
University has made millions of dollars in tuition from California students,
demonstrating intentional and substantial business activities in the state. The
controversy involves Emmanuel University’s adherence to California laws when
interacting with California students and utilizing their resources for
financial gain. Plaintiff argues that Emmanuel University’s legal obligations
extend beyond graduation, as the university must follow California laws
concerning former students’ contractual obligations. Emmanuel University’s
refusal to provide key information related to the alleged debt at issue
exemplifies its failure to meet these obligations.
Plaintiff asserts that it is
reasonable for the Court to exercise jurisdiction over Emmanuel University. If
jurisdiction is denied, current and former California students would be unable
to pursue claims against Emmanuel University in California, despite being
recruited and paying tuition to the university. Emmanuel University benefits
financially from its activities in California and should therefore be
accountable for its obligations in the state. With remote appearances and
depositions available, Emmanuel University would not be unduly burdened by
defending itself in California, where it already has legal representation.
California has a vested interest in adjudicating claims involving foreign
corporations and protecting the rights of its residents. Plaintiff emphasizes
the importance of judicial economy, suggesting that claims against both
Emmanuel and Eastern should be resolved in a single action. The strength of the
reasonableness of exercising jurisdiction over Emmanuel University justifies
even a minimal showing of purposeful availment, as denying jurisdiction would
deprive former and current California students of their rights to seek redress
against Emmanuel for similar issues.
In reply, Emmanuel University contends
that Plaintiff’s claims of purposeful availment through advertising and
recruiting California students are unsupported. The university highlights that
its acceptance of applications from California does not demonstrate purposeful
availment. Emmanuel University references cases like Simonelli v. New York
University A148786, 2017 WL 5712586 (Cal.Ct.App. Nov. 28, 2017) (an
unpublished case which should not have been cited and will not be considered;
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.115) and Roman v. Liberty University (2008)
162 Cal.App.4th 670, 680, where the court found that admitting students or
recruiting an athlete from California did not establish personal jurisdiction.
Emmanuel University maintains that Plaintiff has not shown a sufficient nexus
between the controversy and California, noting that the debt in question was
incurred while Plaintiff attended the university in Georgia.
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
failed to carry his burden establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that
Emmanuel University has sufficient contacts with California that relate to the
claim to justify jurisdiction. Plaintiff has failed to produce evidence to
establish that the alleged misconduct in the complaint is related to or arises
out of Emmanuel University’s contacts with California. Furthermore, Plaintiff
does not explain how this controversy relates to California when Plaintiff was
not a resident of California while attending Emmanuel University. This dispute
is instead about debt incurred during Plaintiff’s time at Emmanuel University
in Georgia. As stated in Emmanuel University’s opening brief, the fact that
collection efforts may have occurred in California does not establish a
connection to the state or personal jurisdiction over the non-collection-agency
defendant. 
 Accordingly, the Court finds that Emmanuel
University lacks minimum contacts with California. The Court GRANTS Emmanuel
University’s motion to quash service of summons for lack of jurisdiction. 
 
III. Motion
to Quash and for Protective Order: GRANTED as to Defendant Emmanuel
University, Inc.
On May 4, 2024, Plaintiff served
Emmanuel University with: (1) Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for Admissions
and (2) a Notice of Deposition of the Personal Most Knowledgeable for June 4,
2024. 
Emmanuel University argues that the
Court lacks jurisdiction in this case. 
Based on the Court’s discussion
above in the motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction, the Court agrees
that Emmanuel University lacks minimum contacts with California. Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Emmanuel University’s motion to quash Plaintiff’s First Set of
Requests for Admission and Notice of Deposition of Person Most Knowledgeable. 
 
IV. Conclusion
A.    Emmanuel University’s Motion to Quash for
lack of personal jurisdiction is GRANTED.
 
B.   
Emmanuel
University’s Motion to Quash Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for Admission
and Notice of Deposition for Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED. Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



J.P., an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EASTERN REVENUE, INC, a California Corporation; EMMANUEL
  UNIVERSITY, INC., a Georgia Corporation; KYLE SHANAHAN, an individual; MATT
  MCREE, an individual, JOANN S. HARPER, an individual; and DOES 1-30,
  inclusive
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV26388
 Hearing Date:   September
  16, 2024
 Trial Date:        Not
  Set
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion for Reconsideration of Plaintiff’s Motion for Costs/Expenses
  Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 415.30(d) 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff J.P. (Joseph Parker) sues
Defendants Eastern Revenue, Inc. (Eastern Revenue), Emmanuel University, Inc.
(Emmanuel University), Kyle Shanahan (Eastern Revenue’s President), Matt McRee,
Joann S. Harper, and Does 1-30 pursuant to an October 30, 2023, Complaint
alleging claims of fraud, unfair business practices, and breach of contract.
B. Relevant Procedural History
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a motion to recover expenses incurred in serving Defendants Eastern Revenue,
Shanahan, and Emmanuel University by mail. 
On June 5, 2024, Defendants Eastern
Revenue and Shanahan filed a joint opposition. 
On June 6, 2024—one court day
late—Emmanuel University filed an opposition. 
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply addressing the Eastern Revenue and Shanahan opposition but not the
untimely Emmanuel University opposition. 
On June 18, 2024, the Court ruled
on Plaintiff’s motion as it related to Defendants Eastern Revenue and Shanahan
but continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion as it related to Emmanuel
University to June 25, 2024. The Court noted the lack of a reply from Plaintiff
responding to Emmanuel University’s opposition and gave Plaintiff until June
21, 2024, to file a reply. 
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply to the Emmanuel University opposition
The Court heard the motion and
issued a ruling on June 25, 2024. 
The Court denied Plaintiff’s motion
because Plaintiff did not provide a copy of the Summons and Complaint to an
individual authorized to accept service on Emmanuel University’s behalf or
provide proof that Plaintiff had mailed a copy of the Summons and Complaint to
Emmanuel University. 
C. Motion Before the Court
On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion for reconsideration of his motion for costs/expenses as it relates
to Emmanuel University. 
On July 9, 2024, Emmanuel
University filed an opposition. 
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply. 
On July 19, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing on the motion to quash service, which was scheduled for July 23,
2024, based on the cyber-attack on all Superior Court systems, which prevented remote
appearances or access to the Court files. The matter was rescheduled for hearing
on September 16, 2024, the same day as a motion to quash discovery as to
defendant Emmanuel.
The Plaintiff’s motion is now
before the Court. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
A motion for reconsideration is used to ask the court to
modify, amend, or revoke its earlier order on a prior motion to the court
because of new or different facts, circumstances, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008, subd. (a).) Such an order may involve an interim or final order (see Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subds. (e), (h)), where an interim order is an intermediate
ruling of some kind that requires further proceedings before the suit can be
resolved, and where a final order is an order that finally disposes of the suit
(see People v. DeLouize (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1223, 1231 [differentiating
between interim and final orders]).  
               A
motion for reconsideration may be brought by a party or by the court on its own
motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subds. (a), (c).) The grounds for the
motion vary depending on whether a party or the Court is making the motion.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subds. (a), (c), (e).)  
               A
party may move for reconsideration based on: (1) new or different facts, (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a); see e.g., In re Marriage of LaMoure
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1473 [reconsideration motion granted on new
evidence]); (2) new or different circumstances, (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(a)); and (3) new or different law, (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a); Baldwin
v. Home Sav. of Am. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192, 1196.) However, a party
cannot move reconsideration based on the court’s erroneous order, i.e., the
court’s misinterpretation of facts or law. (See Jones v. P.S. Dev. Co.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 707, 724, disapproved on other grounds by Reid v.
Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 531-532, 532 n. 4.) 
A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a
motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts,
circumstances or law.”  (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.)  Motions for reconsideration are restricted to
circumstances where a party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not
previously considered, and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Ibid.) 
Moreover, there is a strict requirement of diligence, which
means the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence or different facts
earlier. (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690.) The burden under Section
1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of
newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at
trial.  (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.)   
B. Analysis
Plaintiff argues that the June 25,
2024, order should be reconsidered because there is new evidence. Plaintiff
states that during the hearing on the original motion to recover expenses, the
Court noted that it had to deny Plaintiff’s motion because Plaintiff did not
attach proof of service of the notice of acknowledgement. Plaintiff now submits
the notice of acknowledgement as new evidence. (See Langer Decl., Ex B) 
In opposition, Emmanuel University
argues that Plaintiffs new evidence is untimely and insufficient as a matter of
law to warrant reconsideration. Emmanuel University argues that in the original
motion, the Plaintiff made the argument that he had served Emmanuel University
by mail for the first time in his reply brief, and thus the argument was
waived. Emmanuel University also argues that the proof of service documents filed
with Plaintiffs motion for reconsideration do not include a copy of the notice
and acknowledgement. 
In reply, the Plaintiff argues that
it mailed all the required documents, including the notice of acknowledgement,
to Emmanuel University in March 2024. Plaintiff further argues “[s]ince this
Court did not request proof of service in granting service fees/costs against
Eastern, the Court did not request this at the first hearing in preparation for
the second hearing, and the legal standard changed at the last minute during
the second hearing, Plaintiff could not have known that this Court would
request a proof of service and/or any other document that would help the Court
made [sic] a decision.” (Opp. p. 4.) 
Here, the proof of service for the
notice of acknowledgement does not constitute new or different facts within the
meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. (See New York Times, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at 213.) While the proof of service for the notice of
acknowledgement is new evidence to the Court, Plaintiff, by his own admission, had
this evidence when he filed the original motion to recover expenses. (See Garcia,
supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at 689-690 [motion for reconsideration improperly
granted where evidence reflected knowledge plaintiff had from outset of
litigation].) Plaintiff contends that he mailed Emmanuel University the notice of acknowledgement on March 15 and March 22, 2024.
(Langer Decl., p.2:6-8, and Ex. B.) As such, this evidence was available to
Plaintiff when he filed the original motion to recover expenses on April 23,
2024. 
Moreover, Plaintiff has not
provided a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence earlier
(See Garcia, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at 690.) Plaintiff argues he did not
provide the notice of acknowledgment in the original motion to recover expenses
against Emmanuel University because he “could not have known” that the Court
would request it based on the earlier hearing in the motion to recover expenses
against Eastern Revenue. However, this argument lacks merit. In the June 18,
2024, Minute Order this Court explained that the notice of acknowledgment was
not necessary as to Defendant Eastern Revenue because Plaintiff’s counsel
confirmed with Eastern Revenue’s counsel Richard Perr that Perr represented
Eastern Revenue. (Minute Order June 18, 2024, pp. 3-4) Plaintiff had no such
confirmation on behalf of Emmanuel University. To the contrary, Daniel Cohen
told Plaintiff’s counsel that he did not represent Emmanuel University. (Opp.
p. 1:6-9) (See also Foothills Townhome Assn. v. Christiansen (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 688, 692 [plaintiff's belief that certain evidence was not
necessary at hearing on summary judgment motion insufficient to justify
reconsideration], disapproved on another ground in Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82.) 
C. Issues with Service
Finally, in the Reply brief,
Plaintiff has a final section in which Plaintiff claims not to have been served
with other pleadings (not related to this motion) and asks the Court “to address
the issue and order Emmanuel not to serve third parties and to serve Plaintiff
at the email address listed on this caption,” [i.e., shiloh@thesabfirm] and if
the Court is not inclined to do so, Plaintiff “respectfully requests recusal under
CCP 170.3(6)(B).” (Reply, pp. 5-6.)
First, there is no such code
section in the Code of Civil Procedure. This Court does not believe there is
any basis for disqualification, but to the extent that any party believes that there
is a basis for this Court to recuse itself, that party must follow the
procedures specified in Code of Civil Procedure section 170.3 subdivision (c)(1),
which were not followed here. 
            Second, as
to the service issue and whether Emmanuel improperly served Plaintiff with its opposition
to Plaintiff’s Motion for service costs/fees, their motion to quash summons,
and their motion for protective order re: discovery, the Court notes that a reply
brief on an unrelated motion is not the ideal place to raise such a concern. However,
the Court will inquire with the parties as to whether any documents have been
erroneously served to Plaintiff’s counsel’s wrong email address since the
hearing on June 18, 2024, in which Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed the proper
email address for service, as all of the above pleadings predated that hearing.
Counsel for both sides should of course use the other side’s proper email
address.
 
III. Conclusion
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Reconsideration of
Plaintiff’s Motion for Costs/Expenses Pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure § 415.30(d) is DENIED. 