  Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.
 
PLAINTIFFS KIMBERLY DAVIS AND
JONATHAN DAVIS’ MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE OF BUSINESS RECORDS DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 2020.410 AND 2025.480
 
Date of Hearing:        May
15, 2024                         Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01458
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis  
Responding Party:     No opposition. 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Marko Decl. ¶3.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against
Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,
Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The
Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass
California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)
Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)
Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.
 
Plaintiffs allege about September 15,
2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis
and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in
possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and
Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute
with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was
entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further
allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta
and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the
Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently
forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a
result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 
 
On March 24, 2023, this action was
related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). On August
18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly
Ann Davis, Compass California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason
Improta for breach of contract, money had and received, implied
indemnification, express indemnification, and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants
dismissed their cause of action for express indemnification. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis’ Motion to Compel Compliance of Business
Records Deposition Subpoena Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2020.410 and
2025.480 is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiffs
request this court take judicial notice of several court documents submitted in
support of Plaintiffs’ motion to compel compliance of business records
deposition subpoena (RJN Exhs. 1-7.) Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan
Davis move the court for an order compelling AT&T Corporation to provide
requested documents. Plaintiffs make the motion on the grounds AT&T has failed
to provide the requested documents, which seek basic information that is highly
material to the adjudication of this matter. Plaintiffs also request that this
Court award Plaintiffs an award of $10,915 against AT&T as sanctions for
having to file this motion. 
 
A party seeking discovery from a person
who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition,
written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿
(CCP § 2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (CCP § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena
shall be affected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the
deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated
documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to
travel to the place of deposition.¿ (CCP § 2020.220(a).)¿ Personal service of
any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of
California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to
produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (CCP § 2020.220(c).) A deponent who disobeys a
deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the necessity of a
prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness.¿ (CCP §
2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be
made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record, the date
objections are served, or the date specified for production. (CCP §2025.480(b);
Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
The court finds good cause for
production of the requested documents. As contend by Plaintiffs, the identity
of the person(s) who have used the phone numbers requested is highly relevant
to this case. Similarly, the IP addresses requested are highly relevant as
Plaintiffs contend they were used to impersonate Plaintiff and sign the lease
on Plaintiff’s behalf. The court has previously determined the requested time
periods are relevant. 
 
The motion is unopposed. The court
notes AT&T has waived objections pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.410(b). 
 
Sanctions
 
In their moving papers, Plaintiffs
request $10,915 in monetary sanctions to be awarded against AT&T
Corporation for AT&T Corporation’s failure to provide code compliant
responses. 
 
The amount sought in sanctions in
unreasonable, given that this is an unopposed motion about a single
subpoena.  Further, the court does not
believe that parties should recover for time spent in the requisite meet and
confer process; the meet and confer process is required by law.  The reasonable amount of attorney fees for
the filing of this motion is $2500.  That
amount is ordered payable by AT&T within 30 days.  
 
 
 