 Case Number:  23VECV04358    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  W ELLEN A. SENTIMORE v. SHREE RAM KRISHNA
HARI, LLC., et al.
 
Motion TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF plaintiff’s
COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        May 15, 2024                                                 Trial
Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        23VECV04358
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Shree Ram Krishna Hari, LLC
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Ellen A. Sentimore 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves a claim of bed bug infestation
in a hotel. On February 28, 2024, Plaintiff Ellen A. Sentimore filed a first
amended complaint against B&M Capital Group, LLC and Shree Ram Krishna
Hari, LLC for (1) Negligence - Premises Liability/Failure to Warn/ Negligence
Per Se; (2) Nuisance; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4)
Breach of Contract; and (5) Fraudulent Concealment. Plaintiff seeks damages
from Defendants for their alleged wanton failure to properly maintain, control or
repair Plaintiff’s rented hotel room number 501. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Shree Ram Krishna Hari, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff requests this court take
judicial notice of the Tentative Ruling regarding the Motion to Strike Hearing,
which became the court’s ruling on January 29th, 2024, attached herein as
Exhibit A. The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Shree Ram Krishna Hari, LLC moves this court for an
order striking portions of Plaintiff’s first amended complaint on the grounds Plaintiff’s
claims for punitive damages are not based on ultimate facts, are conclusory,
and the first amended complaint fails to plead specific facts sufficient to support
a claim for punitive damages. 
 
 The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP
§ 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (CCP §
437.) 
 
To sufficiently plead a claim for punitive damages pursuant to
Civil Code §3294, a plaintiff must satisfy circumstances of “malice,
oppression, or fraud,” supported by facts alleged with sufficient
particularity. (G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) These allegations are held to a heightened pleading
standard: a plaintiff may not state a mere conclusion of law to support a cause
of action. (Perkins v. Sup. Ct. (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.) More
importantly, the plaintiff may not simply "plead . . . a claim for damages
in the language authorizing such damages." (Id.) While some
conclusory statements may be permitted, they must make sense in the context of
the Complaint taken as a whole. (Id.)
 
The court previously granted Defendant’s motion to strike on the
grounds “Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged Zagar was an officer, director,
or managing agent of the corporation or that an officer, director, or managing
agent of the corporation authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. The complaint generally alleges he was a manager, employee, or agent.”
(Minute Order, January 29, 2024.) The court noted, however, Plaintiff did
sufficiently allege more than mere negligence and that the conduct alleged “could
certainly be found to be so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.” (Minute Order, January 29 2024.) 
 
Upon review of the first amended complaint, the court finds
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged Defendants’ managing agents authorized or
ratified the wrongful conduct constituting malice, oppression and fraud by a
corporate defendant. Plaintiff alleges the corporate managing agents, including
Benik Navi, Mitesh Kalthia and Ashu Kalthia, ratified Zagar’s conduct.
Plaintiff alleges Zagar was either Defendants’ managing agent or authorized to
act on behalf of Defendants’ managing members regarding the Subject Property.
This is sufficient for the purposes of a motion to strike. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike the first amended
complaint is DENIED. 