 Case Number:  BC653633    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 7/10/24 
CASE NO./NAME: BC653633 XIAO HUA WAN VS BIN
ZHANG, ET AL.
Moving Party: Defendant Bin Zhang
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT
JUDGMENT
IS GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 473.5 provides for setting aside a default
"when service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in
time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered
against him or her in the action." (Section 473.5, subd. (a).
 
A
party who has not received such notice "may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action." (Ibid.)
 
The
notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no
event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written
notice that the default or default judgment has been entered. (Ibid.)
 
(b)
A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date
prescribed by subdivision (b) of
Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an
affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to
defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of
the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.
 
(c)
Upon a finding by the court that the motion was made within the period
permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time
to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on
whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the action. 
 
Discussion
On March 7, 2017, Plaintiff filed the present case alleging
that Defendant Bin Zhang attacked him in Oklahoma while both were employed by
Defendant De Ozark. On November 13, 2018, Plaintiff purportedly served
Defendant Zhang via substitute service on "John Doe" at 15356 Nelson
Ave, City of Industry, CA 91744, an address associated with Defendant De Ozark.
On August 30, 2022, the Court entered default judgment against Defendants.
Defendant Zhang now moves the court for relief, claiming no association with De
Ozark and stating he learned of the case only in late March 2024, upon
receiving an Abstract of Judgment against his property.
Timeliness of Motion 
Motions under CCP 473.5 must be filed either within two
years of entry of default judgment or within 180 days after service of written
notice of default or default judgment Plaintiff’s attorney contends that the
180-day deadline applies. However, upon examining the docket and Plaintiff’s
exhibits, the Court could not locate a written notice of default judgment
served on Defendant. Therefore, the applicable deadline is two years after
entry of default judgment. Since the default was entered in August 2022 and the
motion was filed on June 4, 2024, the present motion is timely.
Defendant's Lack of Actual Notice 
Defendant declares that he did not receive actual notice of
the lawsuit until recently when he received the Abstract of Judgment registered
with the Office of the Clerk of the County Los Angeles in March 2024. Plaintiff
provided no evidence to counter Defendant’s declaration. The evidence he did
submit – his declaration stating that he personally served a copy of the
judgment in March 2024 – leads to the same analysis as with Defendant receiving
notice through the abstract of judgment in March 2024, shortly before Defendant
filed the present motion.
Defendant's Association with De Ozark
Defendant declares that he is not associated with De Ozark
company in any way. He asserts that he has his own trucking company, Bin's
Trucking, and provided a Secretary of State printout of his company that does
not show the 15356 Nelson Ave, City of Industry, CA 91744 address. The only
evidence provided by Plaintiff that Defendant was associated with De Ozark is
his own declaration stating, "At the time we were independent contractor
team truck drivers working for Defendant DE OZARK GROUP" (Plf’s Declaration
¶ 2). Plaintiff’s declaration failed to show the duration and frequency for which Defendant worked
for De Ozark.  Without more
information, Plaintiff has not shown that an address associated with De Ozark is Defendant’s
“usual” place of business as required for substitute service under the statute.
Furthermore, Plaintiff has not shown if 15356 Nelson Ave, City
of Industry, CA 91744 is even a place of business for Defendant De Ozark or
only where its agent for service of process resides. The proof of service shows
that Ozark’s agent for service was served at this address. Additionally,
documents of Defendant, such as his driver’s license and Secretary of State
printout for his company, do not bear the Nelson Ave address. Plaintiff did not
provide any documentary evidence associating Defendant with the Nelson Ave
address. 
Based on the foregoing analysis, the Court grants Defendant’s
motion to set aside.  The Court excuses
Plaintiff's counsel’s mistake in not attaching the answer to the motion and orders Plaintiff to
file an answer within 20 days of today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 