  Case Number:  20STCV11485    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/10/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV11485 KELLY
DUANGRUDEESWAT vs LONG BEACH TRANSIT, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Long Beach Transit
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
On March 31, 2023,
Plaintiff served Special Interrogatories Set one and Requests for Production
Set two. Plaintiff gave Defendant Long Beach Transit several extensions to
provide initial responses, with the final extension set for June 15, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges that the responses were not provided until October 4, 2023,
and that the responses were replete with objections. Plaintiff argues that
because the responses were untimely, objections have been waived and seeks to
compel further responses without objections. Defendant filed an opposition
arguing that timely responses were provided on June 15, 2023, and therefore
objections have not been waived.
In its opposition,
Defendant attached a copy of its further responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories Set One and Requests for Production Set Two, served on May 29,
2024. Defendant’s further responses to the requests at issue render the present
motion moot. Should Plaintiff take issue with Defendant’s further responses,
the parties are required to meet and confer and attend an Informal Discovery
Conference (IDC) before filing a motion to compel further responses.
The only issue
remaining is whether Defendant served its responses late and thereby waived its
objections. The parties do not dispute that Plaintiff gave Defendant an
extension to provide initial responses by June 15, 2023. Defendant provided
proof of service showing that the initial discovery responses were mailed on
June 15, 2023. Plaintiff argues that all other discovery responses were served
by email, except this particular response, indicating foul play. However, Defendant
can choose any method of service permitted by statute and service by mail is
one of the permitted methods.
Plaintiff’s counsel
also declares that she did not receive any mail containing the discovery
responses. However, in the case of service by mail, service is complete at the
time of deposit (CCP § 1013(a)). Defendant has provided proof of service
showing that the discovery responses were deposited with the United States
Postal Service in a sealed envelope with postage fully prepaid; at that time,
then, service was deemed complete. 
Plaintiff then argues
that the verifications and responses were created in October 2023 and not June
2023, when Defendant alleges to have sent out the responses by mail. Plaintiff
points to the metadata of the PDF provided to Plaintiff, showing that the PDF
was created in October 2023, and argues it defies logic that the original
responses were not already saved as a PDF in the computer system before service
to Plaintiff in June 2023. However, this scenario is possible – for instance, Defendant
could have printed out the responses to be mailed from a Word document. In
fact, Defendant provided metadata of a Word document of the verifications
showing it was created on June 5, 2023, consistent with email exchanges between
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel regarding reviewing discovery responses and
signing verification to the discovery at issue around June 5, 2023 (Def’s Ex.
A-C). The evidence submitted, is insufficient to find that Defendant falsified
the proof of service indicating the discovery responses were mailed on June 15,
2023.
Plaintiff’s final
argument is that because Defendant’s verification did not contain the exact
date, it is defective under CCP § 2015.5, and unverified responses are
tantamount to no responses at all (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal.App.3d 632). Defendant in its reply concedes that it made a clerical
mistake in the verifications, where the verifications were signed on June 5,
2023, but mistakenly stated they were made in May 2023. Defendant’s
verification substantially complies with the requirements set forth under CCP §
2015.5, as it contained the location of execution, the declarant’s signature,
and the declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of
California.
Furthermore, when a discovery
response served within the statutory deadline includes both objections and
unverified fact-specific answers, verification is not necessary for the
objections to be deemed timely. There is no requirement for objections to be
verified and objections must be considered timely notwithstanding the lack of
verification. (Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
40 Cal.App.4th 651, 657.) Only the fact-specific responses must be verified.
The only scenario where a lack of verification leads to both an untimely
response and a waiver of objections is if the initial, unverified response
served within the timeline does not contain any objections. (Id.) The
court examined the discovery responses at issue and finds that the majority of
these responses consist of only objections, as pointed out by Plaintiff in the
moving papers. Therefore, Defendant has not waived its objections even if the
verification was defective.
As for sanctions, the Court
finds that there was a genuine dispute over whether the initial responses were
timely served and whether objections had been waived and, thus, both parties
acted with substantial justification. Therefore, the Court denies the requests
for sanctions.
PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE:  
 
If a party intends to
submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court
at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume
that others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither
submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has
issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject
motion. 
 
 
 