 Case Number:  21STCV00938    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/10/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV00938 ESHRAT HAROUNIAN
vs CITY OF BEVERLY HILLS, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Mahi Rastegar 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: THE COURT WILL HEAR FROM THE PARTIES
 
On January 11, 2021,
Plaintiff filed the present case alleging that she tripped and fell on an
alleged defective sidewalk located in front of Defendant Mahi Rastegar’s home
in Beverly Hills. On October 17, 2023, Defendant propounded Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production (Set
One). On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff provided initial discovery responses;
however, the responses contained only objections and did not include a single
substantive answer. In February, Defendant sent a letter and several emails to
Plaintiff to resolve the discovery issues informally, but these communications
were ignored. On June 7, 2024, the parties attended an IDC, but the issues were
not resolved. Defendant now moves the Court to compel further responses.
Plaintiff filed an
opposition stating that counsel is currently engaged in trial but will provide
further responses prior to the hearing set for July 10, 2024. On June 27, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply stating that discovery responses have not been provided.
The Court will hear from the parties on whether responses have indeed been
provided. Should verified further responses have been provided prior to the
hearing, then the present motion is moot. If Defendant takes issue with
Plaintiff’s further responses, Defendant would need to meet and confer on the
further responses first prior to filing another motion to compel further.
As to the issue of
sanctions, the Court examined Plaintiff’s January responses and found that they
consisted solely of objections that the requests are irrelevant or overly
burdensome. The Court finds issue with those responses. First, Plaintiff
reiterated the same objections to all the discovery requests; the objections
are not made in good faith because they are not tailored to each specific
request. Moreover, the interrogatories or requests do not appear to be overly burdensome
or irrelevant. For example, Interrogatory No. 3 asks Plaintiff to identify each
and every condition on the property that caused her to fall on 12/18/19. The
relevance of this request to the present slip and fall case should be self-evident.
Third, Plaintiff had plenty of time to provide substantive responses without
Court intervention and only offered to provide further responses after
Defendant filed his motion.
The Court finds
sanctions appropriate under the circumstances. Defendant requests sanctions in
the amount of $1,400 per motion against Plaintiff’s counsel only. In
consideration of the simplicity of the issues, the Court lowers the amount of
sanctions to $2,000 for the three motions to compel further. Consequently,
Plaintiff’s counsel is hereby ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $2,000
to Defendant within 30 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 