 Case Number:  22STCV08491    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee
S. Arian, Dept 27
 
DEMURRER
Hearing Date: 6/18/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV08491 DORA JIMENEZ, et al. vs ROSE
CREMATION SERVICES, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY HOSPITAL
Responding Party: Macera
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: Defendant Hospital’s
demurrer as to Macera’s causes of action for equitable indemnity and equitable
contribution is sustained. The demurrer to the cause of action for declaratory
relief is overruled.
 
Background
 
On March 9,
2022, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against three Defendants involved in the
handling of the remains of Pedro Reyes (“decedent” or “Reyes”) after his death:
ALTA Los Angeles Community Hospital (“Hospital"), Rose Cremation Services
("Rose"), and Macera Crematory (“Macera”). On May 6, 2024, Macera
filed its first amended cross-complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Hospital for
equitable indemnity, equitable contribution, and declaratory relief. Defendant
Hospital now demurs to Macera’s FAC.
 
Judicial Notice
 
Generally, the Court may not take judicial
notice of discovery responses. (See TSMC North America
v. Semiconductor Mfg. Intern. Corp. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 581, 594.)
However, the Court may take judicial notice of discovery responses “to the extent ‘they contain
statements of the [party] or his agent which are inconsistent with the
allegations of the pleading before the court.” (Bounds v. Superior Court
(2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 468, 477 (quoting Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 605).) “But in doing so, ‘[t]he
hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing
through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of affidavits,
declarations, depositions, and other such material which was filed on behalf of
the adverse party and which purports to contradict the allegations and
contentions of the plaintiff.’” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff seeks compensatory damages against Defendants, including
Macera and Hospital, in the complaint. However, Plaintiffs' discovery responses
do not allege any special damages, only non-economic damages in terms of
emotional distress. There exists an inconsistency between Plaintiff’s discovery
responses and the complaint. Thus, the Court takes judicial notice of the
discovery responses. Further, Defendant Macera did not object to Hospital’s
request for judicial notice.
 
Government
Code 8659 & Executive Order Immunity 
 
Defendant
argues that it should be granted immunity because California State actors have
expressly or implicitly requested that Defendant render services during the
pandemic.   
 
Government
Code 8659(a) provides:  
 
“Any physician or surgeon
(whether licensed in this state or any other state), hospital, pharmacist,
respiratory care practitioner, nurse, or dentist who renders services during
any state of war emergency, a state of emergency, or a local emergency at the
express or implied request of any responsible state or local official or agency
shall have no liability for any injury sustained by any person by reason of
those services, regardless of how or under what circumstances or by what cause
those injuries are sustained; provided, however, that the immunity herein
granted shall not apply in the event of a willful act or omission.” 
 
The
order does not confer unfettered immunity on Defendant. The immunity provided
applies to those acting at the express or implied request of any responsible
state or local official or agency. As such, Defendant must show that a state
actor expressly or implicitly requested that Defendant render services above
and beyond the services Defendant was already providing before the State of
Emergency declaration. The service in question is not providing medical
assistance to the patient with COVID-19, as the decedent had already passed
when the alleged negligence occurred. Plaintiff is also not alleging medical
malpractice relating to hospital treatment of Decedent’s Covid-19. Temporary
storage of the decedent’s body before it is sent out does not constitute
services above and beyond what Defendant was already rendering before the State
of Emergency declaration.
Equitable Immunity and Equitable
Contribution.
“The
right to indemnity flows from payment of a joint legal obligation on another’s
behalf.” (Expressions at Rancho Niguel Association v. Ahmanson Developments,
Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1139.) “The elements of a cause of action
for indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor
and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is
contractually or equitably responsible.” (Id. (emphasis in original).)
Equitable indemnity is premised on a joint legal obligation to another for
damages, whether between joint tortfeasors or to a third party. (See Prince
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1158; Greystone
Homes, Inc. v. Midtec, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1218.)  
 
Equitable
indemnity applies “only among defendants who are jointly and severally liable
to the plaintiff.” (BFGC Architects Planners, Inc. v. Forcum/Mackey
Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 848, 852.) Cal. Civ. Pro. §
875 holds, in pertinent part, that: (a) Where a money judgment has been
rendered jointly against two or more defendants in a tort action there shall be
a right of contribution among them.
 
Under California law,
specifically Civil Code § 1431.2 (part of Proposition 51), non-economic damages
are apportioned according to each defendant's proportionate share of fault,
meaning that each defendant is only responsible for the percentage of non-economic
damages that corresponds to their level of fault. Because non-economic damages
are several and not joint, there is no joint legal obligation among defendants
for these damages. This means that one defendant cannot seek indemnification or
contribution from another defendant for non-economic damages, as each defendant
is only responsible for their own share of these damages
Defendant Hospital points
to Plaintiffs’ discovery responses that the court has taken judicial notice of
to support its argument. Plaintiffs’ responses to Defendant Macera’s Form
Interrogatories – General, Set One, Nos. 6.4, 6.6, 6.7, 8.1, 9.1, 10.3 show
that Plaintiffs are not seeking medical expenses, loss of earnings, burial
costs, loss of use of property, loss of employment and loss of business, employment
opportunities or any type of special damages. Plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories
– General, Set One, Nos. 6.1 and 6.3  show
that Plaintiffs are only seeking non-special damages like emotional distress in
this action.
Macera argues that in
cases where damages are awarded through a special verdict, the verdict often does
not specify economic and non-economic damages, but merely awards an
undifferentiated lump sum. (C.B. v. City of Sonora (2014) 769 F.3d 1005,
1032.) When this occurs, the lump sum is treated as non-economic damages, and a
party waives any right to any offset under joint and several liability. (Id.)
As a result, there would be no indemnity under a special verdict. Based on the
nature of damages sought by Plaintiffs, Defendants are only responsible for
their own share of the damages. Therefore, Hospital’s demurrer against Macera's
cause of action for equitable indemnity and contribution is sustained without
leave to amend. Should Plaintiffs' stance on economic damages change, the Court
will consider Macera’s motion to amend.
Conclusion
Defendant Hospital’s
demurrer as to Macera’s cause of action for equitable indemnity and equitable
contribution is sustained. The demurrer to the cause of action for declaratory
relief is overruled.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case
number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.

 