  Case Number:  23GDCV00766    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV00766
Hearing Date: 02/09/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: JUAN LEON, an individual; v. ISTAFF SOLUTIONS
CORP, a corporate entity form unknown; and DOES 1-50 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER]
Moving Party:  Defendant, California Box II
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Juan Leon
Moving Papers: Notice/Demurrer;
Proposed Order;
Opposition Papers: Opposition;
Rahmani Declaration
Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, California Box II, demurs to the first through seventh causes of
action in the FAC on grounds of failure state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
Defendant
demurs to the eighth cause of action in the FAC on grounds that the claim is
barred by the statute of limitations.
BACKGROUND
On 04/18/2023, Plaintiff
filed a Complaint. 
On
08/02/2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC). The FAC alleges
the following 11 causes of action: (1) Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code
§12940 et seq., (2) Failure to Accommodate in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(m),
(3) Failure to Engage in Interactive Process in Violation of Gov. Code §
12940(n), (4) Age Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code §12940 et seq., (5) Failure
to Prevent Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k), (6) Retaliation
in Violation of Gov. Code §12940(h), (7) Wrongful Termination, (8) Failure to
Provide Employment Records in Violation of Cal. Labor Code §1198.5 et seq., (9)
Failure To Pay Overtime & Wages, (10) Failure to Pay All Compensation at
Termination; Waiting Time Penalties, and (11) Violation of Business &
Professions Code § 17200 et seq.
The
Court notes that the FAC does not list demurring Defendant as a Defendant on
the first page of the FAC. Demurring Defendant is first listed on page 2 of the
FAC in ¶3. Further, in ¶5 of the FAC, the FAC notes, “Each reference in this
complaint to “Defendant” and/or “Defendants” refers to iStaff, Cal Box, and
also refers to all Defendants sued under fictitious names, jointly and
severally.”
Plaintiff
alleges that he was hired by Defendants as a cutting-device operator. (FAC
¶11.) Plaintiff alleges he was injured while performing tasks within the course
and scope of his employment with Defendants when a piece of wood fell on his
right foot, injuring his big toe. (FAC ¶12.) Plaintiff alleges he was disabled
within the meaning of Gov’t Code §12926 because his injury limited him
from performing major life activities, including, without limitation, working.
(FAC ¶13.)
The
causes of action in the FAC appear to arise from the actions of Defendants
after Plaintiff reported the incident to his supervisor. (See FAC generally,
and FAC ¶14.)
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Here,
Defendant’s counsel alleged he met and conferred. (See Madoni Decl. ¶¶4-5.) 
Plaintiff
argues in Opposition that Defendant did not meet and confer because Defendant’s
meet and confer letter and subsequent phone calls were limited to narrow issues
in the third and fourth causes of action. Plaintiff argues that the Court
should overrule the demurrer as to the first, second, fifth, sixth, seventh,
and eighth causes of action for Defendnat failing to meet and confer. 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Therefore,
the Court will not overrule the first, second, fifth, sixth, seventh, and
eighth causes of action for Defendant failing to meet and confer.
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS


Demurrer – Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)

Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored
and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against
him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
Preliminary
The Reply notes that
the Opposition violated CRC, rule 3.1113(d) because it exceeds the 15-page
limit. Defendant requests that the Court refuse to consider any arguments
beyond the 15-page limit because it provides Plaintiff an unfair advantage.
Defendant notes that the Court must accept an oversized brief but that the
Court in its discretion may refuse to consider an oversized brief.
 
Here, the Court
utilizes its discretion and considers the entire Opposition.
 
First Cause of
Action - Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code §12940 et seq
As to the first
cause of action, Defendant cites the following portion of Sandell v.
Taylor-Listug, Inc. :
 
In the context of
disability discrimination, the plaintiff initially has the burden to establish
a prima facie case of discrimination. The plaintiff can meet this burden by
presenting evidence that demonstrates, even circumstantially or by inference,
that he or she (1) suffered from a disability, or was regarded as suffering
from a disability; (2) could perform the essential duties of the job with or
without reasonable accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse
employment action because of the disability or perceived disability. (Jensen
v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 254, 102
Cal.Rptr.2d 55.) To establish a prima facie case, a plaintiff must show “ ‘ “
‘actions taken by the employer from which one can infer, if such actions remain
unexplained, that it is more likely than not that such actions were “based on a
[prohibited] discriminatory criterion....” ’ ” ' [Citation.]” (Reid v.
Google (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 520 fn. 2, 113 Cal.Rptr.3d 327, 235 P.3d
988, (Reid ).) The prima facie burden is light; the evidence
necessary to sustain the burden is minimal. 
 
(Sandell v.
Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 310.)
 
Defendant then
argues:
 
In this matter,
the Plaintiff fails to allege any action taken based on the Defendant
California Box II. In essence, the Plaintiff alleges he injured his big toe at
work. The Plaintiff alleges he informed his employer. The Plaintiff does not
allege that he requested medical attention, needed an accommodation. The
Plaintiff does not allege that the Defendant knew or should have known the
Plaintiff's alleged pain of his injury "increased over time." (FAC ¶15.)
The Plaintiff does not allege anywhere that the Defendant took any action
against the Plaintiff other than to allow the Plaintiff to continue working
until Plaintiff resigned two months later.
 
Based on the
above, the Plaintiff has failed to allege a prima facie case of discrimination
based on disability. Accordingly, the court should sustain the demurrer to the
first cause of action.
 
(Dem. p. 4.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION 
The
Court will hear argument
 
Defendant cites to
Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. to indicate what the elements are for the
first cause of action. Despite Sandell indicating the elements for the
first cause of action, Defendant does not explain what elements in Sandell
are not alleged. Defendant makes several arguments as to what was not alleged,
yet Defendant provides no legal authority that those things must be alleged.
 
Though, under a
broad reading, it could be argued that Plaintiff appears to allege the first Sandell
element in ¶¶ 12-15, 23, and 24 of the FAC,  the second Sandell element in ¶ 25, and
the third Sandell element in ¶¶ 29, 14, 15, 17, and 18, the Court is not
fully persuaded that the elements have yet been clearly pleaded.
The Court will
hear from Plaintiff as to how his alleged disability was conveyed to Defendant,
how he engaged in the interactive process, and how Defendant suffered an
adverse employment action as a result of his alleged disability or perceived
disability.
 
Second Cause of
Action - Failure to Accommodate in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(m)
Defendant states
as follows, “As noted in Gelfo v. Lockheed Martin Corp (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 34, to state a cause of action for failure to engage in the
interactive process ‘First, the employee must request an accommodation.
(Prilliman v. United Air Lines, inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 935, 954, 62
Cal.Rptr.2d 142.) Second, the parties must engage in an interactive process
regarding the requested accommodation and, if the process fails, responsibility
for the failure rests with the party who failed to participate in good faith.’
(Id. at 54. Emphasis added.)” (Dem. p. 4.)
 
Defendant then
argues that Plaintiff did not allege that he either requested an accommodation
or initiated the interactive process.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
The
Court will hear argument as to this cause of action.
 
Plaintiff alleged
he requested an accommodation in ¶ 18. “Plaintiff suffered from harassment,
discrimination, retaliation, and ultimately termination on the basis of his
disability, age, requesting accommodation, and engagement in protected
activity. Further, Defendants utterly failed to provide workers’ compensation
paperwork, failed to engage in a good-faith interactive process, and failed to
offer any reasonable accommodation.” (FAC ¶18.) Further, ¶18 was incorporated
into the second cause of action.
 
Plaintiff appears
to try to allege he initiated the interactive process in ¶¶ 14 and 15, and both
those paragraphs are incorporated into the second cause of action. But the
allegation is, in the Court’s view, unclear.
 
Plaintiff also appears
to allege initiation of the interactive process in ¶ 40 of the second cause of
action. “Defendants failed and refused to accommodate Plaintiff’s needs, and,
failed and refused to engage in an interactive process with Plaintiff, and,
failed to address Plaintiff’s needs in light of his disabilities.” (FAC ¶ 40.)
But, again, it is unclear where and how Plaintiff alleges that he initiated the
interactive process.
 
Third Cause of
Action - Failure to Engage in Interactive Process in Violation of Gov. Code §
12940(n)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff did not allege that he either requested an accommodation or
initiated the interactive process.
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION
The
Court will hear argument as to this cause of action.
 



Fourth Cause of
Action - Age Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code §12940 et seq
 
Defendant argues
as follows:
 
As set forth in Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, in order to set forth a prima
facie case of discrimination "Generally, the plaintiff must provide evidence
that (1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the
position he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3)
he suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or
denial of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive." (Id. at 355.) "While the plaintiffs prima
facie burden is "not onerous" (Burdine, supra, at p. 253, 101 S.Ct.
1089), he must at least show " 'actions taken by the employer from which
one can infer, if such actions remain unexplained, that it is more likely than
not that such actions were "based on a [prohibited] discriminatory
criterion...."." (Ibid. Emphasis added.)
 
In this matter,
the Plaintiff alleges no facts that his constructive termination had anything
to do with age. In fact, the Plaintiff does not allege that the Defendant was
even aware of his age. (Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were aware of his age
because the plaintiff maintained a personnel file.) (FAC ¶71.) While the
Plaintiff's complaint does allege he was discriminated against based on an
injury to his big toe, and he alleges that the discrimination led to his
resignation, there is not one single allegation that the Plaintiff was harassed
or discriminated against based on his age.
 
(Dem. p. 6.)
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION
The Court will
hear argument. The Court is not currently persuaded that the Plaintiff has
adequately pleaded this cause of action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION - Failure to Prevent Discrimination in Violation of Gov.
Code § 12940(k)
Defendant
does not make clear what the elements are necessary for this cause of action. 
 
Further, it is
unclear as to how Defendant is attacking those elements, whatever they may be. The
conclusory arguments asserted by Defendant on page 8 of the demurrer are
unavailing.
 
The Court will
hear argument.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION - Sixth Cause of Action - Retaliation in Violation of
Gov. Code §12940(h)
Defendant
states, “Additionally, "In order to establish a prima facie claim of retaliation
under this section, plaintiff must show: (1) she engaged in a protected
activity, (2) she was subjected to an adverse employment action, and (3) there
is a causal link between the protected activity and the adverse employment
action." (Steele v. Youthful Offender Parole Bd. (2008) 162
Cal.AppAth 1241, 1252.)” (Dem. p. 7.)
 
After citing this
standard, it is unclear which elements Defendant is arguing that Plaintiff did
not allege.
 
While one could
argue that the necessary elements are alleged in ¶¶ 11-20 and ¶¶ 90-96 of the
FAC, the Court is not fully persuaded and will hear argument.
 
TENTATIVE RULING -SEVENTH CAUSE
OF ACTION - Wrongful Termination
Defendant does not
indicate what must be alleged to successfully allege a wrongful termination
cause of action. Further, it is unclear what arguments Defendant is asserting
as to wrongful termination. 
 
The Court will
hear argument.
 
Eighth Cause of
Action - Failure to Provide Employment Records in Violation of Cal. Labor Code
§1198.5 et seq
Defendant
argues as follows:
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure §340, the statute of limitations for an action to recover a
penalty imposed by a statute is one year. As the Plaintiff's complaint alleges,
he requested his employment records on January 25, 2022. (FAC ¶19.) Plaintiff's
right to penalties would have accrued a month later at the end of February
2022, meaning that the very latest the Plaintiff could have brought an action
to recover those penalties under Labor Code § 1198.5 would have been February
2023. However, the Plaintiff did not file his initial complaint in this matter
until the end of April 2023.
 
Accordingly, the
Plaintiff is barred from seeking any civil penalties and the court should
sustain the demurrer to the eighth cause of action without leave to amend.
 
(Dem. p. 8.)
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff does not address this issue.
 
In Reply,
Defendant notes that the Opposition failed to oppose this issue and that this
failure to oppose should be construed as a concession to the demurrer on the
eighth cause of action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION
The Court will hear argument as to the eighth cause of
action.


 
 
 