 Case Number:  24VECV03256    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV03256
Vartani v Carlson
Tentative
ruling:  The court transfers this matter
to Ventura County Superior Court. The address for the accident is in Ventura
County, not Los Angeles County.
The venue
for a personal injury case is in the County where the accident occurred (or
where the defendant resides).   Because there are parts of Thousand Oaks and Westlake
Village which are in Los Angeles and Ventura County, the court locator is to
identify in which court the case gets filed if the venue is Los Angeles
County.  It is not intended to say
that if the location of an accident in Ventura County has a Thousand Oaks zip
code in the LASC court locator, that the plaintiff can file the case in Los
Angeles County.If an accident with a Thousand Oaks zip code happened in Los Angeles County, only
then is the court locator to be used.
If an
accident with a Thousand Oaks zip code happened in Ventura County, then the
case is filed in Ventura County.
Here, the
accident’s address is in Ventura County. 
Ventura County was the proper courthouse.
The court
finds that the plaintiff’s position is patently frivolous.  The address of the accident is in Ventura
County.  That is where the lawsuit should
have been filed.  Comments made by
plaintiff’s counsel that “Ventura will require additional costs and exposure to
the parties, needlessly”  makes it appear
that this is really about the cost.
Even after
the plaintiff’s counsel was provided with maps showing that the accident
happened in Ventura County, plaintiff’s counsel continued to take the frivolous
position that Los Angeles County was proper. 
Pursuant to CCP section 396b(b), the court awards reasonable attorney
fees against plaintiff’s counsel Accident Fighters APC in the sum of $2,500.00.  The court took into consideration the
applicable law that the proper court was Ventura County because the accident
happened in Ventura County, that an offer to stipulate was rejected, and after
being faced with a map showing that the accident did not happen in Los Angeles
County, the plaintiff continued to refuse to stipulate.  Sanctions are payable by 10/17/2024 to the
Client Trust Account of Phillips, Spallas & Angstadt LLP, 11150 W. Olympic
Blvd., Suite 670, Los Angeles, CA 90064.
Plaintiff is to pay the transfer fees for both counties within 20 days.