 Case Number:  24VECV02771    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  T [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Yvette Harrell’s Demurrer to the Answer is OVERRULED as to the first, fourth, sixth through eighth affirmative defenses; and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second, third and fifth affirmative defenses; and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the ninth affirmative defense. Leave to amend is limited to curing the pleading defects identified and not to add new affirmative defenses.IntroductionPlaintiff Yvette Harrell (Plaintiff) demurred to Defendants John Wanes and George Wanes’ (collectively, Defendants) Answer.  Plaintiff’s demurrer placed into issue all nine affirmative defenses (AD). ProcedurePlaintiff’s Points and Authorities (P&As) asserted that a meet and confer was requested but Defendants never responded.   The P&As made reference to a declaration from Attorney Victor Vera to support the contention.  However, Mr. Vera’s declaration was not submitted or filed with the instant demurrer.  Despite the failure to submit Mr. Vera’s declaration, Defendants admitted to receiving the email requesting a meet and confer.  However, Defendants failed to show their efforts to respond to Plaintiff’s request.  Defendants objected to Plaintiff’s meet and confer email because the email failed to list the arguments regarding the purported pleading defects.  However, Defendants’ objection is unpersuasive, especially when Defendants completely failed to respond to Plaintiff’s request to meet and confer.  Defendants’ objection to Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts is without merit to overrule the demurrer. Even if there is a lack of good faith by both Plaintiff and Defendants, an insufficient meet and confer cannot be grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 430.41(a)(4).)DiscussionPlaintiff argued that all nine ADs lack sufficient fact pleading and are uncertain.  However, Plaintiff only provided argument specific to the second, third, fifth, and ninth ADs.  It is the moving party’s duty to present an application of legal authority with facts.  A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that which … [a party] has left unspoken.'”  (Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  Because there is no argument or application of law to facts regarding the first, fourth, sixth through eighth ADs, Plaintiff failed to meet her burden on the demurrer to these ADs.The demurrer to the first, fourth, sixth through eighth ADs is OVERRULED.As argued by Plaintiff, the second AD fails to identify any other party, aside from Plaintiff and Defendants, that could be liable for Plaintiff’s damages.  Further, the third and fifth ADs alleged that Plaintiff failed to mitigate her damages.  However, facts are not alleged to support the contentions.  Without supportive facts for the second, third, and fifth ADs, the ADs are insufficiently pled.  Defendant’s reliance upon rules related to notice pleading are not persuasive because facts are required to be pleaded under notice pleading.  Further, Defendant argued that the Complaint contains defects in pleading, however, the Court looks to the four corners of the Answer in determining the pleading efficacy of the Answer’s ADs, which must be grounded upon new matters. The demurrer to the second, third, and fifth ADs is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.As to the ninth AD, a reservation of right to amend is not a recognized AD.  The demurrer to the ninth AD is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.