  Case Number:  BC647861    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  SWA Tentative Ruling
Judge Eric C. Taylor

Torrance/Department A

Hearing Date:                         Thursday, April 18, 2024
Case Name:                             Joseph Chase, et
al. v. Benjamin Wizmann, et al.
Case No.:                                BC647861 
Proceeding:                            MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
AUGMENT EXPERT WITNESS REPORTS 
Moving Party:                         Plaintiffs Joseph Chase
and Syliva Chase 
Responding Party:                   Defendants/X-Defendants
Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizman, Caroline Denise Wizman, Mount Management,
Inc. and Cross-Complainant Jeremy Wizman
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                                Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to Augment Expert Witness
Reports is DENIED. Defendants’ Request for Discovery Sanctions is GRANTED  

 

 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs
and Defendants are adjoining landowners. 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants undertook a significant renovation project
on their property that was unpermitted and done without engineering
calculations, rendering the entirety of the work illegal and dangerous.  
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants also trespassed repeatedly onto Plaintiff’s property to
perform work on the renovation.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants entered onto Plaintiffs’ property and removed a wrought iron
fence that served as a boundary between the two properties, removed a sprinkler
well, causing the plants on Plaintiffs’ property to die, and eroding the slope
to the west of Plaintiffs’ property.  Plaintiffs
further allege Defendants’ renovation work caused the soil level to drop.  Plaintiffs allege the roots from a tree on
Defendants’ property caused damage to Plaintiffs’ pool and piping.  They also assert that Defendants’ actions
left Plaintiffs’ pool without an enclosure, rendering the pool unusable since
September 2104, and that Defendants constructed an unpermitted retaining wall
impacting the pool.  And Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants have installed unpermitted machinery and equipment on
their property, and that Defendants operate the equipment at intermittent times
through the day and night, interfering with the quiet enjoyment and use of
their property.  
Plaintiffs
further allege that Defendants have leased out their property to short-term
renters on AirBnB, and that these short-term tenants cause excess noise at all
times.  Plaintiffs allege these short-term
tenants have also trespassed onto Plaintiffs’ property while under the
influence of alcohol or other drugs, and damaged plants and fixtures on
Plaintiffs’ property.  
Plaintiffs
assert that they confronted Defendant Benjamin Wizmann about these issues, and
that Benjamin failed to make the repeatedly promised, necessary repairs.  Plaintiffs allege that, thereafter, Defendants
Benjamin and Michelle Wizmann fraudulently transferred the property to
Defendant Mount Management, Inc. by gift deed. 
On
January 23, 2017, Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants Benjamin
Wizmann, Michelle Wizmann, Caroline Denise Wizman and Mount Management, Inc.
(“MMI”).  The operative complaint is the
First Amended Complaint filed on February 7, 2018, alleging (1) trespass; (2)
trespass to timber; (3) nuisance; (4) nuisance; (5) nuisance; (6) removal of
lateral and subjacent support; (7) negligence; and (8) fraudulent
transfer.  
On
June 18, 2018, Defendants/X-Complainants Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizman,
Caroline Denise Wizman, Mount Management, Inc. and Cross-Complainant Jeremy
Wizmann (collectively “X-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint in response to Plaintiffs’
complaint.  On June 29, 2018,
X-Complainants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint.  On November 16, 2019, X-Complainants filed the
Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”) alleging (1) quiet title; (2) trespass;
(3) extortion; (4) assault; (5) battery; (6) IIED; (7) breach of fiduciary
duty; (8) negligence per se; (9) breach of fiduciary duty; (10) unfair, illegal
& fraudulent business practices in violation of B&PC §17200; (11) IIED;
(12) assault; (13) trespass; (14) trespass; (15) trespass; (16) invasion of
privacy; and (17) negligence pe se.  On
December 18, 2019, X-Defendants voluntarily dismissed the second through
seventeenth causes of action, leaving only the first cause of action to quiet
title.
In
response to X-Defendants’ cross-complaint, on September 3, 2019, Plaintiffs
filed a cross-complaint against Defendants Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizmann,
Caroline Denise Wizman and Mount Management, Inc., alleging (1) quiet title;
(2) trespass; (3) assault; (4) battery; (5) nuisance; (6) IIED; (7) declaratory
relief; and (8) injunctive relief. [1] 
A
bench trial was held on December 1 and 2, 2021 on the (1) first cause of action
for quiet title in MMI’s SAXC; and (2) Plaintiffs/X-Complainant’s first cause
of action for quiet title in their cross-complaint.  The Court entered a statement of decision on January
5, 2022, finding in favor of MMI on its first cause of action for quiet title, and
against Plaintiffs/X-Complainants Chase on their first cause of action for
quiet title.  The Court’s statement of
decision dated January 5, 2022 fully resolved Defendants/X-Complaints’ SAXC, fully
resolving X-Complainants’ claims.
Trial
is currently set for August 5, 2024.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
I.  Parties’ Positions
            Plaintiffs’ Position
Plaintiffs
move for leave to augment their expert witness reports pursuant to CCP
§§2034.610, 2034.620 and 2034.630.[2]  Plaintiffs argue the remaining causes of
action in this matter pertain to damages Defendants caused to Plaintiffs’ real
property.  
            Plaintiffs argue that the parties
exchanged expert witness information on February 24, 2020, in preparation for
the April 2, 2020 trial.  Plaintiffs state
that the trial date was continued due to the COVID pandemic, and that the jury
trial is now set for August 5, 2024. 
Plaintiffs argue the expert reports exchanged on February 24, 2020 have
now become outdated due to the passage of time and must be updated.  Plaintiffs attempted to obtain a stipulation
to allow for reopening of discovery and updating of the expert reports, but that
Defendants refused.  Plaintiffs are not
asking to add additional experts, but only to update the expert reports regarding
the property.  Plaintiffs argue no
prejudice will result from their updated reports, but that they will suffer significant
prejudice if they are forced to proceed to trial with outdated, four-year-old
expert reports where soil conditions and other relevant facts have changed
significantly.  
            Plaintiffs ask that the Court grant
relief pursuant to CCP §2034.620. 
Plaintiffs argue the motion was timely filed.  Plaintiffs argue that this trial has been
pending for years and it would have been premature to augment the reports prior
to their filing this motion six months before the August 5, 2024 trial date. 
            Plaintiffs ask that the Court impose
sanctions in the amount of $4,265 as the prevailing party and because
Defendants opposed this motion without substantial justification.  Plaintiffs argue Defendants knew that the
passage of time of three to four years would affect Plaintiffs’ expert
testimony and their refusal to comply with this request would disadvantage
Plaintiffs.  
            Defendants’ Position:
In
response, Defendants argue the discovery cutoff expired on February 10,
2020.  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
do not indicate the scope of the new expert discovery they are seeking.  Defendants argue Plaintiffs opposed
Defendants’ prior requests to continue trial and to reopen discovery.  Defendants assert that Plaintiffs previously made
multiple requests that the trial be assigned to a long cause department,
specifically requesting that the case be assigned to Judge Bryant-Deason, who
had overseen the case before she was transferred to a long-cause courtroom.  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs were clearly
forum shopping and repeatedly stated in Plaintiff’s long cause packets that
they were ready to schedule trial. 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs did not once state in her long cause packets
that additional discovery was needed.  
            Defendants argue Plaintiffs have not
provided any reason why new or augmented expert reports are needed.  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs offer only conclusory
statements in support of this motion that the reports are “outdated” and that
the passage of time “may” have affected the property and Plaintiffs’
damages.  Defendants argue Plaintiffs
failed to identify what expert reports need to be augmented, and fail to
proffer any expert declarations attesting to the need to update the reports.  Consequently, a grant of this motion would
compel Defendants to reopen discovery, so that (1) further depositions can be
taken; (2) to allow further property examinations by Defense experts; (3) and to
permit Defendants’ potential designation of further rebuttal experts.  
            Defendants assert that Plaintiffs
fail to sufficiently explain their dilatory behavior regarding the expert
reports.  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
fail to satisfy the requirements under CCP §2034.620, including that Plaintiffs
“(1) would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call
that expert witness or have decided to offer the different or additional
testimony of that expert witness” or (2) Plaintiffs failed to determine to “call
that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that
expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect and leave to amend was sought promptly.”  
Defendants
argue Plaintiffs have not acted diligently and have, in fact, opposed
Defendants’ prior requests to reopen discovery and vigorously argued that
discovery was closed.  Defendants argue
Plaintiffs filed five long cause packets, causing further delay between 2021
and 2023, and represented in those packets that they were ready for trial.  Defendants argue Plaintiffs have never
previously indicated there would be any need to update the expert reports.  Defendants argue any delay was the result of Plaintiffs’
forum shopping and gamesmanship.
Defendants
argue Plaintiffs should be sanctioned in the amount of $3,725 to augment or
amend expert witness information. 
Defendants argue the motion was not brought with substantial
justification.
Plaintiffs’
Reply
Plaintiffs
reiterate that four years have passed since the parties originally exchanged
expert reports.  Plaintiffs argue it
would severely disadvantage them to proceed without updating the reports to
reflect the current housing market and property conditions.  Plaintiffs argue the pandemic forced a trial
continuance, and that their request is reasonable and will not delay trial
proceedings or inconvenience Defendants. 
Plaintiffs argue they will provide Defendants with an opportunity to
redepose the Plaintiffs’ experts and Defense experts will be given the same
opportunity to update their reports and be deposed.  Plaintiffs ask that the Court impose
sanctions on Defendants for unreasonably opposing this motion.
 
II.  Applicable Law
            “On motion of any
party who has engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information, the
court may grant leave to do either or both of the following:
(1)
Augment that party's expert witness list and declaration by adding the name and
address of any expert witness whom that party has subsequently retained.
(2)
Amend that party's expert witness declaration with respect to the general
substance of the testimony that an expert previously designated is expected to
give.”  (CCP §2034.610(a).)  
            “A motion under subdivision (a)
shall be made at a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the
completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to
permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken
within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may permit
the motion to be made at a later time.” 
(CCP §2034.610(b).)  A meet and
confer declaration under CCP §2016.040 shall accompany the motion.  (CCP §2034.610(c).)  
“The
court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or
declaration only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:  (a) The court has taken into account the
extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.  (b) The court has determined that any party
opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action
or defense on the merits.  (c) The court
has determined either of the following: 
(2) The moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or
to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a
result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving
party has done both of the following: 
(A) Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the
expert witness or to offer the different or additional testimony.  (B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the
proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony
described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the
action…”  CCP §2034.620(a)-(c).
“Leave
to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert
available immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited
to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert
witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a
continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of
costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.”  (CCP §2034.620(d).)  
III.  Plaintiffs submitted the meet and confer
declaration required under CCP §2034.610
            Plaintiffs have submitted
a declaration attesting to their attempts to meet and confer with Defendants on
the issues raised by this motion.  (Johns
Dec., ¶¶7-10.)  Plaintiffs have satisfied
the meet and confer requirement under CCP §2034.610(c).  
IV.  Plaintiffs’ motion is timely under CCP
§2034.610 given the exceptional circumstances 
            Discovery in this
action closed four years ago based on the prior April 2, 2020 trial date.  Due to the COVID pandemic, the trial date was
postponed.  On February 7, 2023, the case
was accepted for long cause trial inventory and on February 5, 2024, the action
was set for trial on August 5, 2024. 
Despite the long and arduous history of this case, which included
multiple long cause packets submitted by Plaintiffs and discovery disputes,
including Defendants’ request that discovery be reopened in May 2020, Plaintiffs
did not previously raise the need to update their expert reports due to the
passage of time as they now argue here.  The
parties timely exchanged their expert witness information on February 24, 2020.  Plaintiffs first raised the issue of updating
their expert reports with the Court in their February 20, 2024 Motion for Leave
to Augment Expert Witness Reports.  
            Pursuant to CCP §2023.610(b), any
motion to amend a party’s expert witness declaration or expert witness list
must be made in “advance of the time limit for completion of discovery,” but
“[u]nder exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made
at a later time.”  (CCP
§2023.610(b).)  The circumstances here
were exceptional.  Parties could not have
contemplated that the February 24, 2020 expert exchange and the April 2020
trial date would be disrupted by the pandemic. 
The alleged need to augment the expert reports was the passage of time
caused by the pandemic, which could not have been contemplated by the parties
prior to expiration of the expert discovery cutoff.   
 
V.  Plaintiffs seek a limited order to reopen
discovery, not an order augmenting or adding to the topics of expert testimony
set forth in Plaintiffs’ February 24, 2020 expert exchange
            Plaintiffs ask the
Court to grant them leave under CCP §2034.610 to “update” their experts’
reports and substantive testimony.  CCP
§2034.610 only applies to requests to amend the information exchanged during
the expert information exchange required under CCP §2034.260(b).  Plaintiffs request to amend is not directed
at that information.  Plaintiffs are not
asking to augment or add to their expert witness list, nor are they asking to
amend their “expert witness declaration with respect to the general substance
of the testimony that an expert previously designated is expected to
give.”  (CCP §2034.610(a).)  Further, they fail to identify how the expert
list or attorney declaration regarding expert testimony exchanged under CCP
§2034.260(b) on February 24, 2020 would be augmented or amended.  
            Plaintiffs also fail to establish
that the passage of time requires amendment of the expert list or expert
declaration exchanged on February 24, 2020. 
Again, Plaintiffs are not claiming that they need to add experts to the
expert list or that they need to add topics to the “brief narrative statement
of the general substance of the testimony each expert is expected to give”
contained in their expert declaration.  (Johns
Dec., Ex. A.)  Plaintiffs do not identify
how these narrative statements need to be amended due to the passage of
time.  The statements are very general
and the scope of each expert’s anticipated testimony is not limited to any
timeframe.  (Johns Dec., Ex. A, Fischbach
Dec., ¶¶2-7 (expert Lindsey Philpott, P.E. “is expected to testify as to his
findings, conclusions and opinions relating to the cause of the damage to
Plaintiffs’ swimming pool, draining of the pool and refilling, design and
engineering of the Defendants’ retaining wall, tree root issues and related
matters as may be appropriate, including, but not limited to, rebuttal to the
testimony of any of the Defendants’ expert witnesses”).)  As such, Plaintiffs are not asking to augment
their witness list or CCP §2032.260 expert declaration.  Plaintiffs’ reliance on CCP §§2034.610 and
2034.620 is therefore misplaced.  
Instead,
as both parties acknowledge in their papers, Plaintiffs seek an order to reopen
discovery.  Plaintiffs’ counsel refers in
her declaration to Plaintiffs’ proposal to “reopen discovery,” not merely to
amend or augment the information exchanged on February 24, 2020.  (Johns Dec., ¶¶9 and 10.)  Plaintiffs’ request is indeed for leave to
allow their experts to update their reports, which would require reopening of
discovery so that the experts can conduct additional property examinations,
submit to additional depositions and entirely reevaluate the case.  In turn, Defendants’ experts would likewise
be entitled to conduct property inspections, be required to sit for depositions
and reevaluate the case.  
A
motion to reopen discovery is governed by CCP §2024.050 and evaluated based on
the factors enumerated under CCP §2024.050(b). 
Plaintiffs did not file a motion to reopen discovery and any such
request would have to be by separate noticed motion.  
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to augment under CCP §2034.620 is denied.
  
VI.  Plaintiffs fail to satisfy the conditions set
forth under CCP §2034.620 to obtain an order granting leave to amend their expert
declaration
Even
if this were a proper motion to augment under CCP §2034.620, the Court finds
the requirement set forth in CCP §2034.620 are not satisfied.  This is due largely to the fact that the
requested relief is not the type contemplated under CCP §§2034.610 and
2034.620.  
            A. 
“[M]oving party would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have
determined…to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert
witness…” 
            Pursuant to CCP
§2034.620, the court shall grant a motion for leave to augment where it
determines either that (1) “the moving party would not in the exercise of
reasonable diligence have determined…to offer the different or additional
testimony of that expert witness” or (2) “moving party failed to determine…to
offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result
of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party
had done both of the following:  (A) sought
leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or
to offer the different or additional testimony. 
(B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of…the testimony described in
Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.”  (CCP §2034.620(c)(2).)
            As discussed above, Plaintiffs
clearly would not have anticipated the need to “update” their expert reports
prior to the exchange on February 24, 2020. 
The need to update the reports arose due to the lengthy delay resulting
from the pandemic and other events that occurred after the original expert
exchange occurred and the April 2020 trial date was continued.  Apart from the pandemic, the action was
delayed by Plaintiffs’ multiple attempts to set the case for long cause trial
and changes in judicial assignments.  Plaintiffs
are asking that they be allowed to update all of their experts’ testimony and
reports due to unforeseen circumstances. 
Because Plaintiffs could not have, with reasonable diligence, determined
to offer the “different or additional” testimony at the time of, or before the
exchange, subsection (C)(2) does not apply and the diligence requirements under
(C)(2)(A) and (B) do not apply.  
B.  Not a request to amend expert witness list
            Plaintiffs are not
seeking to amend the list of expert witnesses. 
Plaintiffs are asking that their experts be allowed to conduct
additional investigation and evaluation to update their reports.  This factor is therefore inapplicable and is
irrelevant to relief under CCP §2034.620.
            C.  “Any party opposing the motion will not be
prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits”
            Prejudice under
CCP §2034.620(b) evidences a “concern with prejudicing the party opposing the
motion by adding a new expert for which that party, due to its reliance on the
previous list of experts, is not prepared and cannot be prepared in time.  A party is not ‘prejudiced’ simply because
the new expert will give testimony adverse to the party.”  (Dickison v. Howen (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 1471, 1479.)  Thus, whether an
opposing party will be prejudiced by allowing augmentation or addition under
CCP §2034.620 rests largely on the opposing party’s ability to respond to the
new expert or expert testimony.  (Id. at
1479.)  
             Plaintiffs are asking to update all of their
experts’ testimony and reports, not the expert witness list or the declaration
in support of the expert testimony exchanged on February 24, 2020 per CCP §2034.260.  Plaintiffs identify five experts whose reports
they maintain must be “updated.” 
Plaintiffs do not provide any detail as to what “updating” means or
requires.  (Johns Dec., ¶¶3-7.)  Plaintiffs offered to make all of their
experts available for deposition at the parties’ election, and they offered to
allow Defendants’ experts to conduct additional property inspections.  (Johns Dec., ¶10.)  
            The number of experts whose
testimony Plaintiffs are attempting to amend and add to is high—at least
five.  This would conceivably require
Defendants to re-depose each of these experts, and for Defendants’ own experts
to update their testimony in response, as well as conduct physical inspections
of the property.  The trial date is
approximately four months away.  Plaintiffs
have made no offer to pay for the deposition costs that will be required by the
requested re-hauling of their expert reports and testimony.  
Moreover,
Plaintiffs fail to specifically identify what precisely is required to “update”
their expert reports, making it impossible for the Court to assess the degree
of prejudice any augmentation would inflict on the Defendants.  As stated above, Plaintiffs’ requested relief
goes well beyond the augmentation or additions contemplated by CCP §§2034.610
and 2034.620, and is ultimately a request to reopen discovery.  
Plaintiffs
fail to establish that the requested relief will not prejudice Defendants’
ability to maintain their defense on the merits.  This factor weighs against allowing
augmentation or addition under CCP §2034.620. 

D.  Factors do not clearly weigh in favor of
granting relief under CCP §2034.620, particularly since it is unclear if
Plaintiffs’ requested relief is provided for by CCP §2034.620
Plaintiffs
fail to establish that the requested relief qualifies as augmentation or
addition to the expert witness list or the declaration exchanged on February
24, 2020.  Plaintiffs also fail to
establish that granting the requested relief would not prejudice Defendants’
ability to defend against the action on the merits.  Thus, Plaintiffs fail to establish the
conditions for relief under CCP §2034.620. 
The motion is therefore denied.  
VII.  Defendants entitled to sanctions in the
amount of $1,862.50
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to augment or amend expert witness information, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP §2034.630.)  
            Plaintiffs unsuccessfully made this
Motion to Augment pursuant to CCP 2034.620. 
Plaintiffs failed to act with substantial justification nor are there
other circumstances that would make imposition of sanctions unjust. The motion
was based on facts and arguments inapplicable to the supporting law, and
represents a veiled motion to reopen discovery. 
Defendants’ request sanctions in the amount of $3,725.  Defense counsel indicates 10 hours of
attorney time were spent on the opposition—5 hours @ $350/hr. and 5 hours @
$395/hr.  The Court awards sanctions in
the amount of $1,862.50 to Defendants and against Plaintiffs.
 
 
CONCLUSION
            For the reasons stated above,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Augment Expert Witness Reports is DENIED.  Plaintiffs are ordered to pay sanctions in
the amount of $1,862.50 within 20 days.


