  Case Number:  22TRCV00532    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                              Monday, June 3, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 6  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jane
Doe v. American Medical Response Ambulance Service, Inc., et al.   
22TRCV00532
1.     
Del Amo Hospital,
Inc.’s Motion to Quash Subpoenas     
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Del Amo Hospital, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Subpoenas is denied
without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on August 18, 2022,
and the Second Amended Complaint was filed on November 1, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff, a minor, had an episode at her High
School in Temecula, California, while high on drugs and became suicidal. The
assigned High School police officer placed her on a 72-hour Welfare &
Institution Code § 5150 hold. During the detention period, the police officer
and emergency doctors at the local hospital concluded that she needed to be
transported to a psychiatric facility. American
Medical Response (“AMR”) employees, Jason D. Anderson and Shaivam Sharma
(apparently incorrectly named as he contends his first name is Shivam), arrived
at the hospital in Temecula with an AMR for transport to Torrance, California. Defendant
EMT Anderson sexually battered Plaintiff, a minor, while she was strapped to a
gurney enroute to the psych ward. EMT driver, Sharma, observed Anderson’s
conduct but refused to intervene and pull over the vehicle. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: 1. Sexual Harassment in a Defined Relationship
(Civil Code § 51.9); 2. Sexual Battery (Civil Code §1708.5); 3. Battery; 4.
Gender Related Violence (Civil Code § 52.4); 5. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress. 
 
On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file
a third amended complaint was granted. A sixth cause of action for Negligence
was added.
 
Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas 
 
Where the witness whose deposition is sought is not a
party, a subpoena must be served to compel the witness’ attendance, testimony,
or production of documents. CCP §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); Terry v. SLICO
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 357. Personal service of a deposition subpoena
obligates a California resident to appear, testify and produce documents
specified in the subpoena, and to appear in any proceedings to enforce
discovery.  CCP § 2020.220(c).  The deposition subpoena may be enforced by a
motion to compel compliance pursuant to CCP § 1987.1.  If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena,
the subpoenaing party may seek a court order compelling the nonparty to comply
with the subpoena within 60 days after completion of the deposition
record.  CCP § 2025.480(b); Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.  
 
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1:  “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(a)(5) states:
“Except as provided in (b), any motion involving the content
of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied
by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate statement include
a motion: (5) To compel or to quash the production of documents or tangible
things at a deposition.”
 
Non-party Del Amo Hospital, Inc. moves to quash the
subpoenas duces tecum served by Defendant AMR. The motion is denied without
prejudice because Del Amo Hospital, Inc. failed to file and serve the mandatory
separate statement. However, the Court urges the parties to meet and confer to attempt
to resolve this issue without the need for future court intervention.
 
Defendant AMR is ordered to give notice of this
ruling.