 Case Number:  BC55801    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                        
                     Monday,
June 3, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jason
Nicholson, et al. v. Southern California Edison, et al.  
BC655801
1.      Southern California Edison’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Southern California Edison’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication is denied.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on March 29, 2017. The
Third Amended Complaint was filed on April 16, 2018. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. On April 15, 2015, Plaintiffs were working on an electrical
maintenance project near Ridgecove Court and Ridgegate Drive when they were
caught in an electrical discharge from the equipment at the inspection site,
suffering major injuries. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to
de-energize the cables, conductors and the equipment being worked on by
Plaintiffs. The Third Amended Complaint alleges the following causes of
action:1. Injury Caused by Violation – Public Utilities Code section 2106; 2. Negligence
– Breach of a Non-Delegable Duty; 3. Negligence – Retained Control; 4. Negligence
– Failure to Warn; 5. Loss of Consortium. 
 
On August 2, 2019, the Court granted Southern
California Edison’s motion for summary judgment. On June 22, 2021, the Court of
Appeals reversed the trial court’s order granting summary judgment. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice of the CPUC
report and CPUC decisions and findings is deemed moot for the reasons explained
below in the substantive ruling.
 
Objections
 
            Defendant’s objections are deemed
moot for the reasons explained below in the substantive ruling.
 
 
            Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the claim
for punitive damages in its favor and against Plaintiffs on the grounds that
the claim for punitive damages has no merit. 
 
The Court addresses procedural arguments made by
Plaintiffs in their opposition. First, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has not
met its procedural requirements under either CCP § 437c(f)(2) or CCP § 1008(b)
in bringing this motion. “[A] party is prohibited from making, and the
trial court from granting, a motion for reconsideration unless the requirements
of sections 437c, subdivision (f)(2), or 1008 are satisfied. (Ibid.)
Section 437c, subdivision (f)(2) provides: ‘[A] party may not move for summary
judgment based on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication
and denied by the court, unless that party establishes to the satisfaction of
the court, newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law
supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.’”  New York Times Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 211 (emphasis in original).  The Court notes that the actual statutory
language is now as follows: “A party shall not move for summary judgment based
on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication and denied by the
court unless that party establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly
discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues
reasserted in the summary judgment motion.”  CCP § 437c(f)(2).
 
Here, however, Defendant did adequately comply with
CCP § 437c(f)(2). The instant motion is solely a motion for summary
adjudication, not a motion for summary judgment, and thus does not run afoul of
the language of Section 437c(f)(2).  Plaintiffs appear to argue that the statute
should also apply equally to a motion for summary adjudication.  However, the Court must defer to the
legislature and the plain language of the statute. Additionally, none of the
case law authorities cited by Plaintiffs specifically state that the statute
should be interpreted to mean both “adjudication” and “judgment” when referring
to the subsequently filed motion. “The objective of statutory interpretation is to
ascertain and effectuate legislative intent. We look first to the words of the
statute, giving to the language its usual, ordinary import and according
significance, if possible, to every word, phrase and sentence in pursuance of
the legislative purpose. Significance should be attributed to every word and
phrase of a statute, and a construction making some words surplusage should be
avoided.” DeCastro West Chodorow
& Burns, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 410, 418.  The legislature could have clearly stated: “‘A
party shall not move for summary judgment or summary adjudication based
on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication or summary
judgment . . .”  The legislature
obviously declined to do so, and this Court must strictly follow the specific
language of the statute.
 
Plaintiffs also argue that the motion runs afoul of
the law of the case doctrine. “Under this doctrine, the decision of an
appellate court, stating a rule of law necessary to the decision of the case,
conclusively establishes that rule and makes it determinative of the rights of
the same parties in any subsequent retrial or appeal in the same case. The rule
is not invoked where the sufficiency of the evidence necessary to sustain the
judgment depends on the probative value or effect of the evidence itself, and
the evidence in the second trial is changed. Similarly, the doctrine does not
apply to points of law that might have been, but were not determined on the
prior appeal.” Nally v. Grace Community Church (1988) 47 Cal.3d 278,
301–302 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Here, however, the Court of Appeal made no
determination whether a triable issue of material fact existed as to
Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages.  The
Court of Appeal’s decision was based on the existence of a triable issue of
material fact as to an element of Plaintiffs’ case in chief.  The Court of Appeal did not make any
determination as to the merits of the alternative motion for summary
adjudication regarding the specific claim for punitive damages.  The decision did not discuss nor make any
findings as to this specific issue. Thus, the law of the case doctrine does not
preclude the Defendant from filing a motion for summary adjudication as to
Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages. 
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the
claim for punitive damages is based on Plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery
responses.  Where Plaintiffs have had an adequate opportunity for discovery, the
Plaintiffs’ factually devoid responses to discovery requests may show that one
or more elements of their claim cannot be established.  Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 573, 590.  This then shifts
the burden of proof to Plaintiffs under CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the burden shifts as a result of the
factually devoid discovery responses, the plaintiff must set forth the specific
facts which prove the existence of a triable issue of material fact.”  Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 573, 590.
 
The Court finds that Defendant has not met its initial
burden to show that the claim for punitive damages has no merit.  Thus, the burden does not shift to Plaintiffs
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the claim for
punitive damages.  CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
 
To meet its initial burden, Defendant relies on
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses, and specifically upon Plaintiffs’ responses to
Request for Admissions, Set One, and corresponding responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two, Number 17.1.  The
Court has reviewed these responses in detail.  It is true that the responses to sub-part (b)
of Form Interrogatory 17.1 requesting facts to support the denial of the
request for admissions are for the most part conclusions.  If this was the sole response to the
interrogatory, then the discovery responses could certainly be considered
“factually devoid.”  However, the
responses to sub-part (d) did provide a factual response to support the
conclusory statements in sub-part (b).  Plaintiffs
supported the statement in sub-part (b) by identifying numerous documents
including PUC investigative reports and decisions.  Plaintiffs also referred to “the numerous
documents in Defendants’ possession regarding the present incident and prior
incidents.”  Defendant appears to rely on
the belief that somehow discovery started in this case with the discovery
requests and responses that Defendant relies upon with this motion.  In fact, however, there had already been
significant discovery undertaken and completed prior to June-October 2023 –
numerous documents have already been produced and depositions taken some of
which had already been filed by both parties in the prior motion for summary
judgment.  This prior discovery included
the production of numerous incident reports, investigative reports,
photographs, as well as interviews with witnesses, and deposition testimony. 
 
The discovery responses generated by Plaintiffs here
are distinguishable from those identified in Union Bank.  In Union Bank, the plaintiffs did not
provide any facts or documentary evidence in response to the RFAs and Form
Interrogatory 17.1.  Here, the reference
to the numerous previously produced documentary evidence is a sufficient
factual response to supplement the conclusory statement in sub-part (b) and
does not render the entirety of the discovery responses “factually devoid.”  This is because the documentary evidence
supports, according to Plaintiffs, the statements set forth in sub-part (b).  While Defendant may argue with the substance
of the responses and self-servingly conclude that the documents identified by
Plaintiffs do not support a claim for punitive damages, this does not render
the responses themselves completely “devoid” of facts. 
 
Defendant also is not able to satisfy its burden of
proof under the Union Bank standard because the burden of proof is not
met when plaintiffs produce discovery responses that do not exclude the
possibility that plaintiffs may possess or may reasonably obtain evidence to
establish the claim. Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
1433, 1441-1442.  Here, in the responses
to sub-part [d], Plaintiffs also stated that “Plaintiff believes there are
other publically (sic) available opinions, orders, decisions, and reports that
are responsive to this request that are not in his current possession.”  Plaintiff also identified specific witnesses
in the responses to sub-part (c) and also stated the following: “Plaintiff
believes there would be additional individuals at the PUC who would have
knowledge of this information.” 
 
Thus, Defendant has failed to meet its burden of
persuasion pursuant to Union Bank to shift the burden of producing
evidence to Plaintiffs.  Therefore, the
Court need not consider Plaintiffs’ substantive arguments and supporting
evidence in their opposition.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is denied.

 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.