 Case Number:  YC073049    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                             Monday, June 3, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 10  



 
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Robert
Lindholm, et al. v. Apollo Equine Transport, Inc., et al. 
YC073049
1.     
Robert Lindholm,
et al.’s Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement 

2.     
Robert Lindholm,
et al.’s Motion to Quash Subpoena Duces Tecum 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
      Robert Lindholm, et al.’s Motion
to Enforce Settlement Agreement is denied.
 
      Robert
Lindholm, et al.’s Motion to Quash Subpoena Duces Tecum is denied. 
 
      Background
 
      Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on August 6, 2018. Plaintiffs allege the following facts.
Defendants misrepresented the services rendered to Plaintiffs in the following
manner: Defendants were engaged to transport horses from Europe to Los Angeles.
However, Defendants increased the cost beyond what was usual and customary. Defendants
misrepresented the services to be rendered as being the same as would be
charged by KLM for the transport while they never had the ability to book on
KLM. 
 
      Defendants
filed a Cross-Complaint on November 20, 2018. Cross-Complainants alleged the
following facts. Defendants, at the request of the Plaintiffs, shipped five
horses from Europe to Los Angeles. Despite many promises to pay, the Plaintiffs
have not paid the Defendants for their services. Instead, the Plaintiffs claim
that the Defendants are liable to Plaintiffs for overcharging. The Defendants
claim that the Plaintiffs never intended to pay them and induced them to ship
the horses with false promises of payment.
 
      Plaintiffs and
Defendant entered into a settlement in which Plaintiff agreed to pay $20,000.00.
Plaintiffs never paid. Defendant filed a Motion to Enforce Settlement which was
granted by this Court. Plaintiff appealed the order, and the Court of Appeal
affirmed the judgment.   
 
      Motion
to Enforce Settlement Agreement
 
 
CCP § 664.6 states: “If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”
 
The Court notes that on August 7, 2020, the Court
granted Defendants/Cross-Complainants own motion to enforce settlement
agreement pursuant to a February 7, 2020 settlement agreement entered into by
the parties. 
 
Now, on March 22, 2024, the Plaintiffs filed their own
motion to enforce settlement agreement.  Plaintiffs
contend that a settlement agreement was entered into by and between Plaintiffs
and the assignee of the judgment Crystal Bergstrom on February 8, 2024.
Plaintiffs contend that the settlement agreement consisted of a written email
memorializing discussions between the parties in which the assignee agreed to
accept five payments of $5,000 each in satisfaction of the judgment. 
 
However, the Court notes that the email also included
the following language: “This is not a novation of the original judgment. If we
receive payments in the amounts and on the dates shown above, we will file a
Satisfaction of Judgment with the Court. If you miss a payment, we will
continue to enforce the original amount of the judgment, including all interest
and costs. I look forward to receiving your Fed Ex on Monday.”  Thus, it is clear that this email was not, in
fact, a new “settlement agreement,” but instead an attempt to collect on the
original judgment.  In addition, it is
clear that no new contract was formed as there was no consideration granted in
favor of the assignee.  Instead, the
assignee agreed to forebear immediately collecting on the judgment and also
agreed to take less in settlement funds since the amount of the judgment, with
interest, now exceeded the original amount of $20,000 as well as the $25,000
amount reflected in the email.  Finally,
there is no showing that the assignee breached any purported agreement.  Instead, the only competent evidence to
demonstrate any breach is Plaintiffs’ own failure to make payment on February
15, 2024.
 
Thus, the Plaintiffs’ motion to enforce settlement
agreement is denied. 
 
 
Motion to
Quash Deposition Subpoenas 
 
Where the witness whose
deposition is sought is not a party, a subpoena must be served to compel the
witness’ attendance, testimony, or production of documents. CCP §§ 2020.010(b),
2025.280(b); Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 357. Personal
service of a deposition subpoena obligates a California resident to appear,
testify and produce documents specified in the subpoena, and to appear in any
proceedings to enforce discovery.  CCP §
2020.220(c).  The deposition subpoena may
be enforced by a motion to compel compliance pursuant to CCP § 1987.1.  If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena,
the subpoenaing party may seek a court order compelling the nonparty to comply
with the subpoena within 60 days after completion of the deposition
record.  CCP § 2025.480(b); Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.  
 
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1987.1:  “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
Cal. Rules of Court Rule
3.1345(a)(5) states:
“Except as provided in (b),
any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to
such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement. The motions that
require a separate statement include a motion: (5) To compel or to quash the
production of documents or tangible things at a deposition.”
 
Plaintiffs move to quash
service of the subpoena duces tecum served upon the custodian of records for
Bonne, Bridges, Mueller, O'Keefe & Nichols, by the assignee Crystal
Bergstrom dba Judicial Judgment Enforcement for records relating to the
employment of Carolyn Lindholm.
 
The motion is denied.  First, Plaintiffs did not even attach the
subpoena duces tecum that they seek to quash.  In addition, Plaintiffs failed to file and
serve the mandatory separate statement. 
 
While the Plaintiffs did not
attach the subpoena, the Court notes that the assignee did attach the subpoena
to her opposition. The subpoena seeks documents with respect to four
categories: “(1) Copies of all applications, contracts, or other binding
instruments on which CAROLYN LINDHOLM aka CAROLYN J LINDHOLM aka CAROLYN WADE
LINDHOLM aka CAROLYN WADE DORAN (hereinafter "DEBTOR") is named. (2)
Copies of all instruments of tender (including but not limited to checks:
(front & back), bank drafts, wire transfers, etc.) made to DEBTOR or her
assigns in the past two years. (3) Copies of all shareholder or stockholder
agreements on which DEBTOR is named. (4) Copies of any documentation in your
possession on which DEBTOR is named that may lead to information regarding the
income or assets of DEBTOR or her husband ROBERT LINDHOLM.”  (Opposition, Ex. F.) 
 
The documents sought to be
produced in these four categories are not vague, ambiguous, burdensome, or
oppressive.  Nor do the documents unduly intrude
upon the Plaintiffs’ or third parties’ privacy interests.  The documents do implicate certain financial
matters of Plaintiff Carolyn Lindholm.  However,
this is an acceptable practice in the context of enforcement of judgments and
judgment debtor examinations. “[A]s far as practicable, counsel should
investigate the debtor's assets and subpoena any documents showing ownership
... into court at the time of examination.”  Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners
Assn. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582 (internal citations and quotations
omitted). 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ motion to
quash subpoena duces tecum is denied.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs’ request for
monetary sanctions is denied.  
 
Assignee Crystal Bergstrom
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 