 Case Number:  22VECV02514    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  W BRYAN GUINO v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
 
PLAINTIFF’S motion to compel
deposition attendance of a person most qualified and custodian of records of
defendant american honda motor co, inc. 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
23, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV02514
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Bryan Guino
Responding Party:     Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Nandivada Decl. ¶11.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from Plaintiff’s lease of a 2020 Honda Accord. On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Co. asserting causes
of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act and Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment. Plaintiff alleges their vehicle had a sensing defect, which
Defendant knew about and concealed. 
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint on April 17, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance of A Person Most Qualified and Custodian
of Records of Defendant American Honda Motor Co, Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Bryan Guino moves this court,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a), for an order
compelling Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. to produce a Person(s) Most
Qualified and Custodian of Records to be deposed. Plaintiff also moves this
court for an order awarding monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,685.00
against Defendant and its counsel of record, Bowman and Brooke LLP for
Defendant’s willful and intentional failure to comply with the relevant code
sections of the Discovery Act. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2025.450, if after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action, without having served a valid objection, fails to appear for
examination, or proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document. (CCP §
2025.450(a).) A motion to compel the deposition of a party to the action must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, or, when the deponent failed
to attend the deposition, a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).) 
 
Plaintiff Guino argues in preparation
for trial, on June 18, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with a Notice of Deposition
of Defendant’s PMQ for August 2, 2024. (Nandivada Decl. ¶4, Exh. A.) Plaintiff
also requested Defendant to provide alternative dates by July 9, 2024 in the
event Defendant or its counsel were unavailable. (Nandivada Decl. ¶6, Exh. B.) On
July 22, 2024, Defendant served a Response to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition.
(Nandivada Decl. ¶7, Exh. C.) Defendant stated that it would not produce a
witness for the deposition noticed for August 2, 2024, but provided no
alternative dates. (Nandivada Decl. ¶7, Exh. C.) The day before deposition,
Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet and confer letter addressing the deficiencies
in Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition. (Nandivada Decl.
¶8, Exh. D.) On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel attended the deposition and
stayed on for 30 minutes. (Nandivada Decl. ¶9.) Defendant did not appear.
(Nandivada Decl. ¶9.) Plaintiff’s counsel then sent Defendant an email asking
for potential alternate dates for this deposition to go forward. (Nandivada
Decl. ¶9.) Defendant did not respond with any alternative dates for the
deposition to proceed. (Nandivada Decl. ¶9.) Plaintiff sent subsequent follow
up emails on September 4, 2024, and September 16, 2024, seeking dates for the deposition
To date, Defendant has not provided a date for the deposition. (Nandivada Decl.
¶10.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues it is
not refusing to provide a PMQ witness in this matter. However, Defendant has an
impacted schedule and Plaintiff was aware of this. Defendant asserts
Plaintiff’s counsel fails to substantively meet in good faith regarding the
deposition of AHM’s PMQ in any of the multiple cases pending between the two
firms. Accordingly, Defendant argues the court should not grant the motion or
sanctions as requested by Plaintiff. If the court does see fit to order a
witness by a certain deadline, Defendant requests the deadline to comply be at
least 90 days from the date of any order to allow Defendant to move witness
schedules. 
 
Since the parties cannot come together
on a date for the deposition, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel
deposition of Defendant’s PMQ. The parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding
availability. The deposition date is to be no earlier than 70 days from the
date of this motion.
 
At this time,
the request for sanctions is DENIED. The court will revisit the issue of
sanctions if the parties do not depose Defendant’s person most qualified by the
deadline.  (See CCP § 2025.450.) 