 Case Number:  24VECV02166    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  W KY SHAMLOU vs
MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC
 
plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to plaintiff’s requests for production of
documents, set one 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
23, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV02166
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Sky Shamlou 
Responding Party:     Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Serrano Decl. ¶¶17-19.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a lemon law action. On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff Sky Shamlou filed a complaint
against Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC for Violation of the Song Beverly Act.
Plaintiff leased a 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQE-Class SUV. Plaintiff alleges the
vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to
warranty and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty
including, but not limited to, electrical and suspension system defects.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request For Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED in Part. 
 
request for judicial notice
 
Plaintiff
requests this court take judicial notice of Local Rule 3.4, of the Superior
Court of California, County of Los Angeles, and Question No. 59 of this Court’s
“Civil eFiling Frequently Asked Questions,” pursuant to Sections 452(e) and 453
of the California Evidence Code. 
 
The court
GRANTS the request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Sky Shamlou moves for an
order overruling Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s meritless objections and
compelling further objection-free responses and production to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-4, 7-9, 11, 13, 14, 15-22,
23-29, 30, and 31. Plaintiff makes this motion on the grounds Defendant failed
to provide timely and objection-free responses and production to Plaintiff’s
RFPs, which seek documents relevant to their claims under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a)
provides that if, on receiving responses to an inspection demand, a propounding
party deems that responses are incomplete, evasive, or inadequate, or that an
objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a
further response. A motion for further responses to requests for production
must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought. (CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) To establish good cause, a discovery
proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action
and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove
that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the
fact.  (Digital Music News LLC v. Sup. Ct. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
216, 224, overruled on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 557, fn. 8.)  However, this burden is not an onerous one:
the burden to show good cause for production “is met simply by a fact-specific
showing of relevance.”  (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (2002)
96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)   
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant responded to
each of the disputed RFPs using the exact same inappropriate boilerplate
objections. For example, Defendant has objected on the grounds of undue burden.
However, Defendant failed to identify the types or categories of ESI sources
that are not reasonably accessible. Moreover, MBUSA served untimely responses
replete with general and specific boilerplate objections, despite having waived
all objections. 
 
In opposition, Defendant first argues
they did not waive their objections because the RFPs were improperly served.
Defendant also argues the responses served were code compliant. For example,
Defendant included code-compliant language to RFPs Nos. Nos. 1, 2, 4, 9, 13 and
14 as it agreed to produce documents and to RFPs Nos. 3, 7, 15-22 because it
has clearly stated after a diligent search, Defendants do not have any relevant
and non-privileged documents currently in its possession, custody or control. As
for the others, Defendant stands by their objections. Defendant contends RFPs nos.
 11 and 23-29 to one extent or another
seek to illicit an improper legal conclusion which seeks to impose obligations
upon MBUS beyond those required the Discovery Act. Or RFP Nos. 15-22 improperly
seek information regarding policies, procedures, training materials and the
like regarding many topics of a general nature and not specific to the vehicle
at issue in this case. Defendant notes, however, Nos. 23-29 are no longer in
dispute because they will provide supplemental responses. 
 
First, the court notes Defendant did
not waive their objections.  Plaintiff
has not presented any evidence or authority establishing Defendant fell within
the language of Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, California Rules of
Court, rule 2.251, or Local Rules 3.4. 
 
However, the court agrees some of the
responses are not code compliant. Defendant does state it will produce all
relevant and non-privileged documents to RFPs Nos. 1, 2, 4, 9, 13 and 14.
However, these responses were served on August 6, 2024. Defendant has not
provided why it has yet to produce documents. Moreover, Defendant has not
substantiated their objections that the information sought in RFP Nos. 1-4,
7-9, 11, 13, 14 (regarding Plaintiff’s own vehicle) is vague, ambiguous, over
broad or not reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence.

 
As for RFPs Nos. 3, 7, 15-22, the court
finds the responses not code compliant. Although Defendant states “any relevant
and non-privileged” documents are not within Defendant’s possession, custody or
control, Defendant fails to include a privilege log. Plaintiff cannot determine
if there are privileged documents in Defendant’s possession. Moreover, it does
not state if there is any natural person or organization known or believed by
that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item. 
 
As for all of these requests, the court
finds the request overbroad to the extent that it goes back to 2020.  The relevant time period is 2023 and 2024. 
 
Moreover, although Defendant would have
us believe their policies, procedures, training materials and the like differ
for each vehicle, they argue it is not limited to the specific vehicle (RFP
Nos. 15-22). As such, the court finds the discovery requests should be limited
to the vehicle at issue. 
 
As for RFP No. 8, the court finds
further responses necessary. The objections are meritless and the request seeks
relevant information. Regarding RFP Nos. 30 and 31, however, the court agrees
the requests are burdensome and/or ambiguous. The phrase “Field Service Action”
is not defined. In addition, it is unclear what Plaintiff means by “in response
to complaints experienced by Plaintiff”. 
 
As noted above, Defendant states it
will produce supplemental responses to RFP Nos. 23-29 as follows: “Without
waiving any prior made objections, MBUS provides the following supplemental
response to [RFP No. 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29]: After a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry, Responding Party does not have any documents responsive to
this request in its possession, custody or control because none ever existed.” This
response is sufficient.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request For Production of Documents, Set One is
GRANTED in Part. 
 
Defendant is ordered to serve further,
code-compliant responses to Nos. 1-4, 7-9, 11, 13, 14, 15-22. The request to
compel further responses to other requests is DENIED. 
 