  Case Number:  22VECV01431    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  W JANE DOE V. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, ET AL.
 
plaintiff’s consolidated motion to quash or modify
subpoenas issued to various medical provideres by defendant los Angeles unified
school district 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
23, 2024                  Trial Date:       February
3, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01431
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Jane Doe
Responding
Party:     Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of
allegations by Plaintiff Jane Doe that she was sexually abused by a former
employee of Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”), Defendant William
Paden, while he was employed by LAUSD. On September 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against LAUSD and Paden for (1) sexual abuse of a minor, (2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (3) sexual harassment, (4)
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of an unfit employee, (5) breach
of mandatory duty: failure to report suspected child abuse (Government Code
section 815.6), (6) negligent failure to warn, train, or educate, (7) negligent
supervision of a minor, and (8) negligence. 
 
On March 22, 2024, Los Angeles
Unified School District filed a cross-complaint against William Paden and
Richard Coleman for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. LAUSD
dismissed Richard Coleman from the cross-complaint on June 6, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Consolidated Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoenas
Issued to Various Medical Providers by Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Jane Doe moves this
court for an order quashing or modifying subpoenas for production of business
records served upon various medical providers by Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District. The providers subpoenaed are as follows: (1) Dr. Daniel
Buckner - Plaintiffs children's pediatrician; (2) Dr. Steven Yoon - Plaintiffs
ophthalmologist; (3) Dr. Jasmine Yun - Plaintiffs dermatologist; (4) Harbor
UCLA - Dr. Roy Mansano – Plaintiff’s gynecologist; and (5) Providence
Cedars-Sinai Tarzana - Dr. Shelley Susman – Plaintiff’s gynecologist. 

Plaintiff moves to quash or modify
the subpoenas on the grounds there is no good cause for the discovery sought,
the subpoena is overly broad and not relevant to the subject matter of this
litigation or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, the subpoena seek documents protected by Plaintiffs constitutional right
of privacy, the subpoena is unreasonable and oppressive in its requests, the
subpoena was issued for the purpose of harassing Plaintiff, and that any
opposition to this motion will lack substantial justification. Plaintiff also
seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,460.00 against LAUSD and/or its
counsel of record. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 states that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.”  (CCP §
1987.1(a).)  “In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” 
(CCP § 1987.1(a).)  Subdivision (b) provides that a party may make
a motion pursuant to subdivision (a).  (CCP § 1987.1(b).) 
 
As a general rule, all
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action
is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court. (1993) 5
Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought to be discovered impacts a
person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited protections come into play
for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993,
999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal and financial matters. (Id.)
The court must balance competing rights — the right of a litigant to discover
relevant facts and the right of an individual to maintain reasonable privacy —
in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff argues the subpoenas for
all medical providers violate Plaintiff's right to privacy, as well as her
children's right of privacy, are harassing, oppressive, and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiff asserts
she is entitled to retain confidentiality of all unrelated medical treatment
they may have undergone and evidence relating to Plaintiff's health records for
parts of her body other than those parts that Plaintiff has put into
controversy in this lawsuit are protected by Plaintiff's "inalienable
right of privacy" and the "inalienable right of privacy" of
third parties." (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal. 3rd 844, 855-56.)

 
In opposition, LAUSD briefly
argues Plaintiff failed to meet and confer prior to filing this motion. It
notes while Section 1987.1 does not specifically impose a ‘meet and confer’
requirement, Department W mandates that all parties ‘meet and confer’ before
every motion is filed. Plaintiff, in response, argues Plaintiff has always
tried to reason with LAUSD regarding the subpoenas but LAUSD was unreasonable
during the process. First, the court notes that Department W’s rules encourages
parties to meet and confer prior to filing a motion to avoid delay in
proceedings or filed solely for tactical reasons. It is not required.
Regardless, based on the correspondence, it appears the parties have reached an
impasse to this issue. 
 
LAUSD argues it issued 7 subpoenas
to medical providers identified in Blue Cross records to seek records solely
related to Plaintiff as established by Item # 3 in each of the subpoenas. The
Blue Cross information did not specify the type of medicine that three of the
subpoenaed providers specialized in. The other four subpoenas were for hospital
treatment and billing records (not limited to one medical provider). Moreover,
none of the subpoenas requested any records regarding Plaintiff’s children or
family. Regardless, Plaintiff’s complaint specifies broad physical injuries as
a basis for her damages. Specifically, Plaintiff has alleged she has suffered
“physical and emotional injuries” in ¿¿ 28, 39 and 47, that she suffered “physical
injuries”
in ¿
53, and further alleged that she “has been severely damaged
emotionally and physically” in ¿
61. LAUSD also argues Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that Dr. Buckner
is a pediatrician, Dr. Yoon is an opthamologist, Dr. Yun is a dermatologist, or that Dr.
Susman and Dr. Mansano are gynecologists. 
 
Given that counsel for Plaintiff
has established the medical providers’ area of specialty under penalty of
perjury and the court has previously established medical records sought should
be limited to emotional distress and psychological symptoms, the court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to quash. LAUSD has not established how such information is
relevant and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. 
 
The court notes both parties seek
monetary sanctions. Plaintiff seeks $4,460 for having to bring this motion and
LAUSD seeks $2,791.25 for Plaintiff’s failure to cooperate and having to oppose
this motion. 
 
The court DENIES both requests for
sanctions. 