  Case Number:  21STCV13351    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
5-30-24 a/f 10-7-24
Case
# 21STCV13351
Trial Date: 7-29-24 c/f 6-24-24.
 
 
STAY
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, San Marino Unified School District
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, John Doe
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Stay Action
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
John Doe was a student Huntington Middle School and San Marino High School with
defendant San Marino Unified School District (SMUSD). Defendant Howard Cheung
was a teacher in SMUSD. Cheung was also an employee for defendant River Way
Ranch Camp, an overnight camping facility in Sanger, California. 
 
Beginning
in sixth grade in 2000-2001, a friendly relationship between Plaintiff and
Cheung began, which placed the two alone together in various location. The
continued contact provided Cheung opportunities to sexually molest Plaintiff,
including at River Way Ranch Camp. Plaintiff alleges SUMSD faculty and staff
saw the inappropriate time together and failed to investigate or report.
 
On
April 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Sexual Abuse of a Minor,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Sexual Harassment, Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee, Breach of Mandatory Duty:
Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse, Negligent Supervision of a Minor,
Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate, and Negligence. On June 18, 2021,
the court overruled the demurrer of SMUSD. SMUSD answered and filed a
cross-complaint.
 
On
June 28, 2022, the action was transferred from Department 32 (Personal Injury
hub) to Department 68. On June 28, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed River Way Ranch
Camp with Prejudice. On October 26, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed Howard Cheung
without Prejudice. On May 17, 2023, the court granted the motion of Western
Camps, Inc. dba River Way Ranch Camp for determination of a good faith
settlement with Plaintiff. 
 
On March 27, 2024, the court granted the motion for summary
adjudication on the fourth and sixth causes of action for Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee Negligent Supervision of a Minor.
The court denied the motion for summary judgment on the basis of its denial of
the motion for summary adjudication on the fifth and seventh causes of action
for Breach of Mandatory Duty, Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse, and
Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate.
 
On April 16, 2024, the court entered the parties’
stipulation to continue the trial date. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Requests for Judicial Notice: Granted.
·        
The
court takes judicial notice of the existence of the outside trial court orders,
but not any content including factual findings. (Kilroy v. State of California (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 140, 147-148; Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) The orders also constitute unpublished material, and
therefore not citable for any reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a); Rittiman v. Public Utilities Com. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1018, 1043 (footnote 18).)
·        
The court also takes judicial notice of the petitions for writ of
mandate, but again, only for notice of the existence of the petition, when
considered in context of the First and Second Appellate District Dockets. 
·        
The court takes judicial notice of the correspondence from the
Second Appellate District for purposes of establishing notice of the request
for further briefing.
 
San
Marino School District moves for a stay of the entire action pending resolution
of two writs taken up to the First and Second Appellate District on the
enforceability of the revival of the statute of limitations under Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1, with an exemption to the government claim filing
requirement for childhood sexual assault claims brought under the revived
statute of limitations. (Gov. Code, § 905, subd.
(m).) The exemption was codified following the passage of California
Assembly Bill 218 (AB 218). The issues presented to
the court challenges said exemption as a violation of the “gift prohibition
section” of the California Constitution Article XVI, section 6 of the
California Constitution. The argument challenging the constitutionality of AB
218 relies on the express link between a claim for money or damage against a
public entity, and a required government claim. Allowing the recovery of
monetary damages without a preceding claim constitutes a prohibited “gift” to
any recovering victim, and therefore an unconstitutional provision.
 
San Marino School District represents that any potential recovery
against it would require approval of both the West San Gabriel Liability and
Property Joint Powers Authority and District Board of Education. San Marino
School District maintains that no payment can and will be approved pending
resolution of the appeals, thereby supporting the request for the stay. 
 
Plaintiff in opposition contends the motion for an “indefinite”
stay due to an unrelated case proceeding in outside jurisdiction unfairly
prejudices Plaintiff. Plaintiff cites to over 60 trial court orders as a
showing of the number of courts rejecting the argument submitted by Defendant. 
 
San Marino School District in reply reiterates the pending appeals
and benefits towards judicial efficiency. San Marino School District disputes
the contention of an overly lengthy stay. San Marino School District challenges
any argument regarding expected outcomes of the appeal(s).
 
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to
stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of
Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489; see OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 141 [“[A] court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion,
to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice”]; Cooper v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 55 Cal.2d 291, 301; Bailey v. Fosca Oil Co.
(1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 813, 817.) 
 
The court acknowledges the pending appeals on West
Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First Appellate District Case No. A169314)
and filed appeal on Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District Case
No. B334707). The First Appellate District case is briefed, with oral
argument to be scheduled. The Second Appellate District requested supplemental
briefing on certain issues regarding the nature of the public purpose in
waiving the claim exemption—the award of a gift to a private individual (a
transfer of a personal right or property without any basis of consideration) caused
by the relinquishment of an otherwise invalid claim. Plaintiff takes specific
issue with the Second Appellate District appeal in that the court “has not even
accepted review of the Writ of Petition,” and only requested “informal
briefing.” 
 
It remains undisputed that the writ of mandamus filed
before the Second Appellate District from the Santa Barbara Superior Court
remains to be determined for acceptance. The supplemental reply brief was due
on May 17, 2024. 
 
The court disagrees with the characterization of the
requested stay as an “indefinite” period to the extent such a categorization
implies an open ended period of time. The court itself has considered the exact
issue from a different school district defendant, and appreciates the broader
impacts of the multitude of cases currently under challenge caused by the vast
revival of claims.
While a time frame on the Second Appellate District
case regarding the setting of oral argument or rejection remains unknown, in considering
the stay, the court cannot disregard the volume of challenges brought by school
districts throughout the state. A number of courts rejected the gift clause
argument, but a smaller proportion considered the constitutional implications
differently. The implications of the revival are presumably at least part of
the consideration of the First Appellate District acceptance of the appeal, and
Second Appellate District consideration. 
 
The court considers the issue of sufficient public
importance that a published opinion appears more likely. While Plaintiff seeks
to minimize the consideration of any decision from the First Appellate
District, the court considers the potential impacts of a published opinion.
 
“Decisions
of every division of the District Courts of Appeal are binding upon all the
justice and municipal courts and upon all the superior courts of this state,
and this is so whether or not the superior court is acting as a trial or
appellate court. Courts exercising inferior jurisdiction must accept the law
declared by courts of superior jurisdiction. It is not their function to
attempt to overrule decisions of a higher court.” (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 455.) “Where California intermediate
appellate court cases conflict, any trial court may choose the decision it
finds most persuasive.” (Sears v. Morrison (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 577, 587.) “As a practical matter, a superior court ordinarily will follow an
appellate opinion emanating from its own district even though it is not bound
to do so. Superior courts in other appellate districts may pick and choose
between conflicting lines of authority.” (McCallum v. McCallum (1987)
190 Cal.App.3d 308, 315 (footnote 4).) 
 
Dual published opinions also remains a valid
consideration. Said opinions may present a potential a range of granular
interpretations. Furthermore, as anticipated by Plaintiff, in the case of
potentially conflicting opinions, the court expects a writ of certiorari to the
California Supreme Court.

“Grant of review by the Supreme Court of a decision by the Court of
Appeal does not affect the appellate court's certification of the opinion for
full or partial publication under rule 8.1105(b) or rule 8.1110, but any such
Court of Appeal opinion, whether officially published in hard copy or electronically,
must be accompanied by a prominent notation advising that review by the Supreme
Court has been granted. [¶] (2) The Supreme Court may order that an opinion
certified for publication is not to be published or that an opinion not
certified is to be published. The Supreme Court may also order depublication of
part of an opinion at any time after granting review.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.1105(e)(1)(B), (e)(2).) “Pending review and filing
of the Supreme Court's
opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion
of a Court
of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited
for potentially persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal
opinion must also note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the
Supreme Court.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, 8.1115(e)(1).) 
 
The court in no way discounts the
impacts of a potential stay on the action to Plaintiff. Nevertheless, the
subject action only appears before the court because of the revival of claims.
A determination of the constitutionality of the revival potentially insulates
an entire group of child sexual abuse victims or potentially significantly
compromises any number of cases. Such potentially broad impacts renders a stay
of the action warranted pending appeal. Allowing the individual case to proceed
constitutes an inefficient and improper use of judicial resources.  
 
The court in its discretion
therefore stays the action. 
 
The court in no way intends an indefinite, open ended stay.
The court will seek updates on the pending appeal(s), and therefore set an OSC
re: Appeal(s) for 90-120 days from the hearing date. Depending on the state of
the appeals and potential California Supreme Court review, the court will
either further continue the stay or set new hearing dates for further
consideration of the judgment on the pleadings. 
 
The currently set trial for July 29, 2024, is vacated. The
court takes the motion for judgment on the pleadings off-calendar. 
 
San
Marino School District to give notice.
 