


[1] The procedural
history of the case has been shortened. 
 


[2] Defendants cite to Carlton
v. Quint (2000) for the proposition that Plaintiffs filing of anopposition
serves as a waiver of inadequate notice. (Reply p. 2.) Indeed, the Carlton court
explained that “it is well settled that the
appearance of a party at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to
the motion on its merits is a waiver of any defects or irregularities in
the notice of motion. (Citations.) This rule applies even when no notice was
given at all. (Citations.)” (Id. at p. 697, quoting Tate v. Superior
Court (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 925, 930.) However, although Plaintiffs have not
requested a continuance, relying on the case is premature as there the
non-moving party appeared and argued at the hearing whereas here, it is
uncertain as to Plaintiffs’ appearance. 
 


[3] Though Defendants
attempted to remedy the issue but Plaintiffs did not respond to Defendants’
message(s). 
 


[4] Here, Plaintiffs
testified at their respective depositions to alleged psychological harm as a
result of this event and each responded to discovery claiming the following
mental injuries: “Depression; panic attacks; anxiety; excessive sadness; mood
changes; emotional pain; anger; impulsivity; loss of interest; hopelessness;
worthlessness; social withdrawal; intrusive recollections; avoidance;
nightmares; sleep disturbances; difficulty falling and staying asleep; loss of
consciousness; post-traumatic stress disorder; post concussive syndrome; poor
coordination; poor concentration, difficulty paying attention;
forgetfulness/problems with memory; problems with word finding; slowed
thinking, difficulty getting organized; and inability to finish things; sensitivity
to light; sensitivity to noise; concussed brain; direct concussion; post
concussive syndrome with impairment in brain processing; post concussive
headaches; traumatic brain injury with loss of consciousness;
dizziness/lightheadedness, etc.” 
(Motion p. 3.) 
 


[5] Plaintiffs in
opposition argue that it would be prejudicial to grant the motion because “Defendants
failed to provide a list of the proposed tests, as well as the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination. It is uncertain what
the parameters of the examination. It would be unfairly prejudicial to compel
Plaintiffs to submit to a second examination without this basic information.”
(Opp. p. 10:15-18.) But the “basic information” is provided in the
notices of examination. (See Motion Exs. B [“BURNER CONSTRUCTION CORP.
AND BENJAMIN THOMAS CALHOUN’S STIPULATION TO NEUROPYSCHOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS”],
C [“DEFENDANTS DEMAND FOR AN INDEPENDENT MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF DAVID
FLORES”].) To the extent that a separate statement (SS) was required, the court
exercises its discretion to overlook the need for one as the Exhibits above
provide all the information such that a SS would be duplicative. 
 


[6] The issue is moot as
Defendants in reply contend the entire audio recording will be produced. (Reply
p. 4, Header III “Defendants Concede That the Entire Examination Can Be Audio
Recorded.”].) Therefore, this issue will not be further discussed. 
 


[7] It is unclear what specifically
Plaintiffs take issue with regarding the scope of examination as the
opposition is largely dedicated to the issues of the audio recording and raw
data. (See headers ‘a’ “If Defendants’ Examiner Does Not Turn Over the Raw
Data and Testing Materials, Then Plaintiff Will Be Deprived of the
Opportunity to Cross-Examine The Expert and Prepare for Trial” and ‘b’
“Defendants Agree That Plaintiffs are Entitled to Audio-Record the
Entirety of the Examination as a Matter of Law; Denying Plaintiffs This Right
Would be Arbitrary and Punitive and Would Severely Prejudice the Plaintiffs and
Deny Them the of the Right to Due Process.’”), emphasis added.) The opposition
merely mentions that “There is no basis for Defendant to demand that Plaintiffs
submit to an “independent medical evaluation” without any limitations” (Opp. p.
5:10-11) without provided an explanation as to what limitations should be
imposed. Therefore, as Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants’ purported
negligent has caused mental health injuries in the form of post-traumatic
stress disorder, insomnia, nightmares, depression, and anxiety, all of which
are ongoing, Plaintiffs have placed their mental condition in controversy. (See
Motion p. 6, citing Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
839-40.) 
 


[8] Despite nearly
identical arguments, it is unclear as to Defendants’ contention that Randy’s
Trucking is “contrary to established rules for the interpretation of
discovery statutes [and] ethical and legal standard that apply to neuro/psych
experts.” (Motion p. 10.) Instead, Defendants briefly mention Roe v.
Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 138 for the proposition that they
need not produce testing material. Not so, and Randy’s Trucking squarely
addressed the case observing that “At
best, Roe stands for the
proposition that a trial court is not required to
order the production of test materials or test data under section 2032.610. Under Carpenter, however, given the trial
court's broad discretion in discovery matters, it retains the discretion to
order the production of such materials.” (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 837.) Randy’s Trucking also dismissed the defendant’s
reliance upon Detroit Edison v. NLRB, 404 U.S. 301 (1979), which is the
other case Defendants cite. 
 


[9] There is no “statutory authority precluding a trial
court, in its discretion, from ordering the disclosure of the written test
questions and answers.” (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at
p. 834, quoting Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
271); see also Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 933, 846 [trial
courts have “broad discretion in discovery matters”], emphasis added.) 
 


[10] Plus, presuming
there are cases wherein said testing was divulged, there is no indication that
the testing material has been largely disseminated and otherwise comprised. 

