 Case Number:  21STCV24975    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants BURNER CONSTRUCTION CORP.’s
and BENJAMIN THOMAS CALHOUN’s MOTION AND MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT
PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATIONS OF PLAINTIFFS is GRANTED in part (i.e., as to the
IME itself) and DENIED in part (i.e., as to raw data and audio-recording). 
 
Background[1]
 
This is a
personal injury case. Plaintiffs DAVID FLORES, an individual and LINDA LEON, an
individual, (collectively, “Plaintiffs” and/or “Plaintiff”) allege the
following against Defendants BURNER CONSTRUCTION CORP. (“Burner Construction”),
BENJAMIN THOMAS CALHOUN (“Calhoun”), an individual, JON WILLIAM HOSEA, an
individual, and DOES 1 THROUGH 50, Inclusive, (collectively, “Defendants”
and/or “Defendant”): Defendants were recklessly driving and caused a collision
with Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Defendants were “high-beaming” and overtaking one
another when they lost control of their vehicles and caused the crash.
 
On July 7,
2021, Plaintiffs filed suit. 
 
On September
19, 2022, Plaintiff filed its second amend complaint (SAC) for: 1.     Negligence 2.     Negligence Per Se and 3.     Statutory Liability
 
On December 7, 2023, the parties participated in an IDC regarding the
instant motion.
 
On January 30, 2024, Defendants Calhoun and Burner filed the instant
motion. 
 
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
On February 14, 2024, moving Defendants filed their reply.
 
Notice/Timeliness[2]
 
As noted by
Plaintiffs in opposition and conceded by Defendants in Reply, the motion is
untimely as Defendants provided less than 13 court days’ notice instead of
the statutory 16 court days’ notice.[3]
That said, the court disagrees that Plaintiffs would be prejudiced by hearing
the motion for three reasons. 
 
First,
Plaintiffs’ opposition is detailed, indicating that they had ample time to file
an opposition. Second, continuing the motion to allow for the 16 court days
notice would but prejudice Plaintiffs as they are bound to statutory timelines
(e.g., CCP section 583.310 [action must be brought within five years].). Third,
by denying the motion as to the contested issue of raw data (ruling in
Plaintiffs’ favor), that is arguably prejudicial to Defendants, not Plaintiffs.
 
Therefore—as Plaintiffs
will not be prejudiced by the ruling—the court declines to to deny the motion
on said grounds. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
This Motion
is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2032.020(c)(1) and Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839-40; Doyle v. Superior Court
(6th Dist. 1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1886-87. (Motion pp. 1-2.) 
 
In turn, the
statute provides that when a plaintiff alleges that a defendant’s conduct has
caused him or her severe emotional distress, or other types of mental injury, a
mental health examination may be ordered by the Court.[4]
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.020 (a)). In relevant part, the statutes spells out the
following:
 
(a) Any party may obtain discovery, subjection the restrictions set
forth in Chapter 5, by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party
to the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the
custody or under the legal control of a party, in any action in which the
mental or physical condition of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action. 
(b) A physical examination conducted under this chapter shall be
performed only by a licensed physician or other appropriate licensed health
care practitioner.
(c)(1) A mental examination conducted under this chapter shall be
performed only by a licensed physician, or by a licensed clinical psychologist
who holds a doctoral degree in psychology and has had at least five years of
postgraduate experience in the diagnosis of emotional and mental disorders.
 
Discussion[5]
 
Based on the motion, the issue is not whether Plaintiffs
should be compelled to appear at a psychological evaluation but whether
Defendants should be (i) required to produce the raw data/testing material with
Plaintiff’s Counsel, (ii) provide audio-recording of the examaination,[6]
and (iii) scope of questioning rearding the reasons for prior psychological
treatment.[7]

 
Defendants’ argue that they should not be compelled to
divulge raw test data and testing materials because: 
 
1.     Its expert/examiner has advised
Defendants that she will not perform the evaluations of either plaintiff if
forced to provide Plaintiff’s counsel with the raw test data and testing
materials, citing both copywrite issues as well as exam integrity. (Motion p.
7.) 
2.     When individuals obtain prior
knowledge of test item content and procedures, they can “study up” on the test
to “finesse” their answers.
3.     Attorneys can coach their future
clients (and in this case, the second of the two Plaintiffs to be examined) as
to how to take and “pass” performance validity tests. (See generally Motion p.
8.) 
 
For reasons to be
more specifically discussed below—echoing reasonings observed by Randy's
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal. App. 5th 818 (Randy’s
Trucking)[8] and exercising
its disrection,[9] the
court orders the release of raw data/testing material. 
 
First, as to the copyright argument, the raw test data is arguably
Plaintiffs’ as it is their responses. As to the testing material, there is no
indication that it is copywrite material, and if it was protected intellectual
property, it is unclear as to why this specific doctor would have standing to
assert the claim. Copyright law gives creators of original material the
exclusive right to further use the material and this doctor has not made a
showing that she created the tests.
 
Second, the raw data and testing materials is required to lay the
foundation for the expert opinion as an expert is required to provide the information
(documents, etc.) that he or she relies upon to form their expert opinion.
To the extent that Defendants contend that an attorney cannot cross-examine an
expert because an attorney lacks the requisite expertise on psychological
issues, that is unmeritorious. For one, attorneys cross-examine experts for the
purpose of diminishing their credibility. Second, according to the Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 1.1, a lawyer shall perform legal services
with competence. This includes “acquiring sufficient learning and skill,”
indicating that an attorney must know enough about the issue or subject to
competently judge the work. 
 
Third, to the extent that Defendants are concerned with Plaintiffs “prepping”
for the examination, the testing material can be disclosed after both
examinations have taken place. To the extent that Defendants are concerned
with future dissemination of the testing material for other clients,
that is merely based upon speculation.[10]

 
Fourth, a protective order can be signed making the data available for use
only in this case and only for review by counsel’s teams and experts, with the
data to be destroyed at the conclusion of the case. 
 
In sum, the court orders the transmission of raw data and testing material to Plaintiffs' attorney subject
to a protective order, as Plaintiffs demonstrated a need for the materials
and the protective order would address the concerns about test security and
integrity. (Id. at p. 842.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is
GRANTED/DENIED in part in that Defendants are to share the Raw Data/Testing Materials with
Plaintiffs’ counsel; Defendants are to provide an entire audio recording of the
examination; but Defendants need not modify the scope of questioning. 


