 Case Number:  23STCV23364    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 20, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         111 W7 Owner LLC et al. v. 1200
Management LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV23364            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs 111 W 7 Owner, LLC, 600 S Spring Owner LLC
and 650 S Spring Owner LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant 1200
Management LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/26/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/04/23: Cross-Complaint filed. 
·        
03/26/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for declaratory relief. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
entered into a series of purchase and sale agreements and lease agreements
concerning several mixed-use buildings. These agreements allegedly required
Defendant to pay a portion of operating, management, and maintenance costs,
except those costs that solely affect the residential portions of the property.
Plaintiffs also allege that the agreements obligated Defendant to cover costs
for subdivision of the commercial portions of the properties from the
residential portions. Plaintiffs claim that Defendants have refused to pay
these costs and seek a declaration from the Court that they are required to do
so under the lease agreements.  
 
Plaintiffs move for summary
adjudication of all three causes of action for breach of contract. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED in its entirety.
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of the three causes of action for breach of
contract in the First Amended Complaint. Although the Motion identifies these
causes of action as the first through third causes of action, they are properly
referenced as the second, third, and fourth causes of action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting proving each element of a cause of action. (Code
Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing
the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant
objects to portions of the Declaration of David Schneider in support of the
Motion as lacking foundation and calling for a legal conclusion. It is not
entirely apparent from the papers which portions of the excerpted testimony
Defendant considers objectionable. However, Objection No. 3, which pertains to
the testimony “[i]nstead of paying what [Defendant] owed,” suggests that
Defendant takes issue with Mr. Schneider’s contention that Defendant owed a
specific sum to Plaintiffs. To the extent this testimony is offered to establish
the existence of a debt, Defendant’s objections are SUSTAINED as an improper
legal conclusion. However, Mr. Schneider’s testimony is admissible for the
purpose of demonstrating the calculation of Defendant’s potential obligations.
 
Plaintiffs’ Improper Reply Separate Statement
 
            On August
1, 2024, Plaintiffs submitted a document entitled “Reply to Defendant and
Cross-Complainant 1200 Management LLC’s Response to Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts” in support of the motion. No such document is
authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 437c nor by California Rule of
Court 3.1350. The Court refuses to consider this additional filing. 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiffs
seek summary adjudication of the three causes of action for breach of contract
in the First Amended Complaint.
 
To prevail on a claim for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must plead and prove the contract, the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach,
and finally the resulting damage. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.)
 
All three causes of action arise
from a common set of contentions, namely, that Defendant is obligated to pay
certain operating expenses for (1) taxes; (2) water; (3) gas; (4) sewer; (5)
management costs; (6) pest control; (7) maintenance costs; (8) cleaning and
painting costs; (9) security costs; (10) fire life safety improvements; and
(11) electricity. (FAC ¶¶ 39-57.) 
 
            The Parties
agree that the three properties at issue on this motion are mixed-use
properties with both commercial and residential space. (Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts & Response to Separate Statement Nos. 3, 32, 61).
Defendant leased the commercial spaces on the ground floor of each property
subject to a Master Lease Agreement. (Id. Nos. 4, 33, 62.) These Master
Leases are substantively identical and will therefore be addressed
collectively. (Id., see also Plaintiffs’ Exhs. 1-3.) 
The leases provide that, in addition to the Base Rent,
Defendant, as the Tenant, shall pay its applicable percentage of the annual tax
and operating expenses, which are to be calculated as described in the Lease.
(E.g. Plaintiffs’ Exh. 1 §6(a).) Subsection 6(c) of the lease describes how
these payments are to be calculated, as relevant here: 
 
(i) Generally.
Tenant shall pay to Landlord the applicable percentage share of Operating
Expenses and Tax Expenses set forth on Exhibit C [of the Lease] (such share of
expenses, “Direct Expenses.”
 
(ii) Calculation
and Payment of Additional Rent. If for any Expense Year ending or
commencing within the Term, Direct Expenses for such Expense Year exceed the
sum of the Estimated Payments, as that term is defined in Section 6(c)(iv) made
with respect to such Expense Year, then Tenant shall pay to Landlord, in the
manner set forth in Section 6(c)(iii) , below, and as Additional Rent, an
amount equal to the excess (the “Excess.”
 
(iii) Statement
of Actual Direct Expenses and Payment by Tenant. Landlord shall endeavor to
give to Tenant following the end of each Expense Year, a statement (the
“Statement”) which shall state the Direct Expenses incurred or accrued for such
preceding Expense Year, and which shall indicate the amount of Excess, if any.
Upon receipt of the Statement for each Expense Year [. . . ] if an Excess is
present, Tenant shall pay, with its next installment of Additional Rent due,
the full amount of the Excess for such Expense Year, and if Tenant’s Estimated
Payments for such Expense Year were greater than Direct Expenses for such
Expense Year, Tenant shall receive a credit in the amount of Tenant’s
overpayment against Rent next due under this lease. The failure of Landlord to
timely furnish the statement for any Expense Year shall not prejudice Landlord
or Tenant from enforcing its rights under this Section 6. [. . .]. 
 
(iv) Statement of
Estimated Direct Expenses. In addition, Landlord shall furnish to Tenant a
yearly expense statement (the “Estimate Statement”) which shall set forth
Landlord’s reasonable estimate (the “Estimate”) of what the total amount
of Direct Expenses for the then-current Expense Year shall be. Tenant shall pay
monthly on the first day of each month an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of
such Estimate to the Landlord for such Expense Year (the “Estimated Payment”). 
 
(See SSUMF Nos. 12-15; 38-41, 67-70, see also Plaintiffs’
Exhs. 1-3 § 6(c).) Exhibit C of each lease agreement set forth the same
apportionment of expenses payable by Defendant: 3% of the total tax expenses of
the property (plus any taxes and assessments levied against personal property
or trade or other fixtures placed by Defendant or any subtenant), 2% of the
total water expenses, 2% of the total garbage removal expenses, electricity
expenses as submetered, 3% of the total Landlord’s insurance expenses for the
property, and all other expenses per net rentable square feet. (E.g., Exh. 1.
p.36.) Any costs “which directly and solely affect the residential component of
the Real Property shall not be Operating Expenses. (Exh. 1. p.3.) 
 
Plaintiffs contend that Defendant
has no defense to the breach of contract claims because the undisputed facts
establish that Plaintiffs furnished estimates of the Direct Expenses on May 11,
2023 (SSUMF Nos. 16, 45, 74), and Defendant did not pay the requisite 1/12
portion because it disputed some of the expenses listed in the estimate. (SSUMF
Nos. 22-23,51-52, 80-81.) Defendant, in response, contends that Plaintiffs
breached their obligation in the Master Leases to prepare reasonable estimates,
which constituted a condition precedent to Defendant’s obligation to pay. This
is an issue of contract interpretation subject to the following standard: 
 
When a dispute arises
over the meaning of contract language, the first question to be decided is
whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by
the party.  If it is not, the case is over.  If the court decides the language is
reasonably susceptible to the interpretation urged, the court moves to the
second question: what did the parties intend the language to mean? ... Thus,
where contract language is clear and explicit and does not lead to absurd
results, we ascertain intent from the written terms and go no further. If the contract is capable of more than one reasonable
interpretation, it is ambiguous, and we apply the standard rules of
interpretation in order to give effect to the mutual intention of the
parties.  In sum, courts must give a
reasonable and commonsense interpretation of a contract consistent with the
parties' apparent intent.  
 
(Department of
Forestry & Fire Protection v. Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC (2015)
239 Cal. App. 4th 1060, 1066 [internal quotation marks, ellipses,
and citations omitted].)
 
            As set forth above, the
Leases require that Plaintiffs, as landlords, must prepare a reasonable
estimate of the total amount of Direct Expenses. (E.g. Exh. 1. § 6(c)(iv).)
Although the Leases provide no definition of a “reasonable estimate,” section
6(c)(i), which defines “Direct Expenses,” is instructive. That provision states
that Direct Expenses are the applicable percentage “set forth on Exhibit C.” (Id.
§ 6(c)(1).) Exhibit C on each lease describes the manner of calculation for
various expenses, such as, for example, electricity expenses, which are to be
billed “as submetered.” (Id. Exh. C. p.36.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff
must first demonstrate that it has billed a reasonable estimate of the Direct
Expenses as calculated under Exhibit C, as provided by the express terms of the
contracts, to establish that it has performed a condition precedent to
Defendant’s obligation to pay those expenses. In response, Plaintiffs contend
that Defendant was obligated to pay 1/12 of the estimate, whether or not it is
accurate, because the Leases also provide for a mechanism to credit Defendant
if the estimate exceeds the actual Direct Expenses under section 6(c)(iii). The
Court finds this contention unpersuasive because, Plaintiffs’ assertion to the
contrary notwithstanding, Plaintiffs’ interpretation would, in fact,
permit them to charge any amount, without limitation, and extract that sum from
Defendant, thereby rendering the language requiring a “reasonable estimate”
ineffective. A provision for credit on subsequent years’ expenses would not
cure that injury, as credit on rent is not equivalent to a reimbursement of
excessive charges. The Court rejects Plaintiffs’ interpretation. Instead, the
Court concurs with Defendant that Section 6(c)(iv) of the Master Leases
requires Plaintiff to first demonstrate that it prepared reasonable
estimates of the Direct Expenses as a condition precedent to Defendant’s
obligation to pay. (See Kaupke v. Lemoore Canal & Irr. (1937) 20
Cal.App.2d 554, 557-58 [breach of condition precedent term excuses dependent
party’s obligation].) 
 
As
Plaintiffs’ motion does not address the reasonableness of their estimates, the
motion fails to demonstrate that Plaintiffs have performed their obligations
under the Leases. Consequently, Plaintiffs have failed to establish all
elements of their claims for breach of contract and are not entitled to summary
adjudication of these causes of action. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication is DENIED in its entirety.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 20,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 