 Case Number:  23TRCV03788    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 6, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV03788
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Rita Jacqueline
Fisher, et al. v. Suzanne Haywood, et al. 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
ATTORNEY NAME:             Defendant, Lavie’s Construction,
Inc.’s, attorney, Samuel C. Gazzo.
 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED. 
 
 
I.               
Background  
 
On
November 13, 2023, Plaintiffs, Rita Jacqueline Fisher, Jean Paulette Fisette,
and Phil Rubideaux (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Suzanne Haywood, as trustee of the Suzanne Haywood Trust, Marilyn
Orr, as trustee of the Orr Trust, Parkside Property Management, Lavie’s
Construction, Inc., and DOES 1 through 20.   
 
On
May 7, 2024, Defendant, Lavie’s Constriction, Inc.’s (“Lavie”) attorney, Samuel
C. Gazzo (“Gazzo”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
II.             
Legal Standard & Discussion  
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that
“the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment
or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and
attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either
client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would
cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in
this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior
(1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.) 
 
In making a motion to be relieved as
counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil
(MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was
brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The
forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the
case.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Lavie’s counsel, Gazzo,
moves the Court to relieve him as attorney of record for Defendant,
Lavie. Gazzo properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court
3.1362. On May 7, 2024, all forms for the pending motion were served on Lavie
by mail. Further, Gazzo notes that Lavie’s last known address has been
confirmed within the past 30 days via e-mail. Further, on May 7, 2024, proof of
service for said documents were filed with the Court. 
 
In the declaration Gazzo
notes that he has been instructed by Lavie Construction Inc.’s insurance
carrier to withdraw as counsel. He also notes he is informed and believes Lavie
has personal corporate counsel for this matter, although that potential replacement
counsel has not been in contact with him as of the filing of the motion.
 
Since Lavie’s attorney has
complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as
counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay
in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Samuel C. Gazzo as
attorney of record for Defendant, Lavie Construction, Inc., can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to its interests. 
 
III.           
Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Samuel C.
Gazzo’s, Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the Order will be
signed at the hearing. “After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order
must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the
case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not
be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff
and Defendant has been filed with the court.” (Id.) 
 
Moving counsel Mr. Gazzo is
ordered to give notice, including notice that under California law a
corporation cannot represent itself in litigation and thus must have an
attorney to represent it going forward.
 
 