  Case Number:  23TRCV01364    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    June 6, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV01364
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Vijay Naidu; Sonia Bhaskar v.
Access Services, et al.  
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
Access Services and Global Paratransit, Inc. 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Sonia Bhaskar 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       August 4, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants, Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories
                                                (2) Defendants,
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
                                                (3) Defendants,
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents 
(4) Request for Sanctions 
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Defendants, Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is MOOTED
                                                (2) Defendants,
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is MOOTED 
                                                (3) Defendants,
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents is
MOOTED
(4) Defendant’s Requests for Sanctions is GRANTED in the lowered
amount of $750 per motion x 3 = $1,500
in monetary sanctions, payable by Plaintiffs’ counsel to Defense counsel by
July 6, 2024.   Plaintiffs’ requests for
sanctions ae DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On April 28, 2023, Plaintiffs, Vijay
Naidu and Sonia Bhaskar (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Access Services, Global Paratransit, Inc. (“Defendants”), and DOES
1 through 25. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) General
Negligence; and (2) Motor Vehicle Negligence. 
 
Per the moving papers, on January 23,
2024, Defendants note they propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
upon Plaintiff. Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s responses were due on
February 26, 2024. Defense counsel states that approximately a week after the
due date, on March 4, 2024, counsel sent a letter to plaintiff requesting
verified responses without objections as the responses were overdue. 
 
Further, on March 15, 2024, Defense
counsel notes that he called Plaintiff about the status of discovery responses.
Further, on March 22, 2024, Defendant sent a meet and confer correspondence
requesting responses by Plaintiff by March 29, 2024, if Plaintiff agreed to
extend the time defendants could bring a motion to compel. Defense counsel
notes that he also informed the appearing Plaintiff’s counsel at the February
27, 2024, March 27, 2024, and April 8, 2024, case management conferences that
responses for Plaintiff, Sonia Bhaskar were overdue. However, Defendants contend
that they subsequently were forced to file this Motion to Compel, but on May
14, 2024, Defense Counsel received verified responses. 
 
            At
a prior discovery hearing on May 28, 2024, this Court ruled Defendants were not
at fault for Plaintiff’s late responses to their propounded Requests for
Admission because the RFAs had been served on counsel of record. This Court
also suggested the parties meet and confer in an attempt to resolve the other
series of pendng discovery motions in light of the Court’s rulings and
directions that when verified responses are served while a motio to compel
initial responses is pending, the substantive motion to compel is moot but the
issue of monetary sanctions may remain. 
The parties have since filed papers indicating that while plaintiff
counsel and defense counsel spoke on the phone thereafter, they reached an
impasse. 
 
            Thus,
Defendants’ 3 remaining motions to compel remain on calendar as to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On April 29, 2024, Defendants filed these
motions to compel further. On May 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition
brief. On May 30, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief.  
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
Legal Standard 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411
            Code of Civil Procedure
section §2031.310(a) provides in
pertinent part: “On receipt of a response to an inspection demand, the party
demanding an inspection may move for an order compelling a further response to
the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete…. (3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” Further, if the responding party
objects to an inspection demand, the response must “identify with
particularity” any document or thing failing within any category in the demand
to which the objection is made and set forth the specific ground for objection.
(Code Civ. Proc. §2031.240(b).) A statement of inability to comply must also
(1) affirm a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made, (2) that the
inability to comply is because the responsive item has never existed, has been
destroyed, lost, misplaced or stolen, or has never been or is no longer in the
responding party’s possession, custody, or control. (Code Civ. Proc.
§2031.230.) The statement must also set forth the name and address of the
person or organization believed to have possession, custody or control of the
item. Finally, if any documents are withheld pursuant to a claimed privilege,
the responding party must ‘(A) identify with particularity [the] document…, and
(B) set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the
objection…, the particular privilege…[and] if an objection is based on a claim
that the information sought is protected work product [under Section 2018.010],
that claim shall be expressly asserted.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.240(b).)  
 
Notice of the motions must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions
must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Preliminarily, this Court notes that Defendants’
moving and responding papers are somewhat confusing. The moving papers are
identified as “Motions to Compel,” not Motions to Compel Further. However,
Defendants note that responses were provided on May 14, 2024. Thus, on a Motion
to Compel an initial response, as distinct form a motion to compel further
responses, the opposing party’s service of verified responses, even the day
before the hearing, would moot the substantive Motion to Compel since initial
responses were provided prior to the hearing. 
Defendants’ reply brief does not attach the responses, nor does it
indicate that the responses on May 14, 2024 had objections. This
Court notes that if responses without objection have been served on Defendants,
then these 3 motion to compel will be MOOTED. If objections were included in
the May 14 verified responses, the Court finds those objections have been
waived.  If Defendants have identified
issues within the responses, they may file Motions to Compel Further Responses
within the requisite 45-day period after the required meet and confer process
has occurred. 
 
B.    Sanctions
Additionally,
Defendants have requested monetary sanctions be imposed on Plaintiff and/or
Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $1,400 per motion ($4,200 total). The
sanction amount is based on the declaration of Christopher J. Correia, counsel
for Defendants, who notes his hourly rate is $350, that he spent 2 hours
drafting each motion’s moving papers, anticipates spending 2 hours reviewing
the opposition, drafting a reply brief, and attending the hearing on the
motion. Here, the Court finds the hourly rate to be reasonable. However, the
Court finds that on a Motion to Compel initial responses to discovery, less
time is necessary as no meet and confer would be required nor would separate
statements be required. As such, if the Court awarded sanctions, it would be
for a lesser amount. The Court also understands that responses to the discovery
only occurred after the motions had been filed, thus indicating to the Court
that the bringing of the motions was necessary to induce the responses. As
such, the Court tentatively grants sanctions in a lowered amount.  
The Court takes into account in
the sanctions calculus the apparent confusion at the law firm representing the
Plaintiff as to how incoming discovery and motions would be handled among the
lawyers within the firm, and takes into account the prior declaration of
Plaintiff’s counsel indicating that 25-40% of the lawyers in the firm have
departed in the first several months of 2024. 
The Court tentatively would award $750 per motion x 3 = $1,500 in
monetary sanction payable by Plaintiffs’ counsel to Defense counsel by July 6,
2024.   The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s ambitious requests
for sanctions against defense counsel for the reasons discussed in connection
with the RFA motion. The Court also notes that it previously awarded $1,000 in
monetary sanctions, so the order here is in addition to the previously awarded
monetary sanctions.  The Court also takes
into account that it encouraged the parties to attempt to resolve these 3
motions in light of the Court’s previous rulings, in the Court’s apparently
overly optimistic hope that cooler heads would prevail and that the June 6
hearings could be avoided.  But perhaps
self-inflicted wounds will result in learning opportunities.
Counsel for Defendants are ordered to
give notice. 