 Case Number:  22STCV25565    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25565




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Candi King aka Candi Vallera’s Appearance at Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Universal Protection
Service, LP (“Defendant”) now moves to compel non-party witness Candi King aka
Candi Vallera (“Vallera”) to comply with a deposition subpoena. No opposition
has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so
specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session
if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A
deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt
without the necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the
witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a
deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the
deposition record, the date objections are served, or the date specified for
production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct.
(Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Declaration of Nelson X. Liu, Defendants’ counsel, shows that Defendant has attempted to contact
Vallera to informally resolve this dispute. (See Liu Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) Therefore,
the meet and confer requirement is met.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant argues that
Vallera’s daughter, Skylar King, is a witness to the underlying stabbing in
this case. Defendant cannot locate Skylar King and now seeks to depose Vallera.
Defendant argues that Vallera had conversations with her daughter before and
after the stabbing and went to the subject location after the stabbing
occurred. 
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendant personally
served a deposition subpoena on Vallera, with a deposition set for February 26,
2024. (Liu Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) The subpoena sought only testimony and not
production of documents. Vallera failed to confirm her attendance and the
deposition was taken off calendar. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant called and texted Vallera
to reschedule the deposition but did not hear back. Finally in April 2024,
Vallera communicated that she did not know information about the underlying
case. (Liu Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) Defendant has not heard from Vallera since April 28,
2024. (Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel compliance with the subpoena and impose monetary sanctions
against Vallera. However, Vallera did not receive notice of this motion by
personal service. A moving party’s failure to serve the notice of motion and
moving papers on a non-moving party violates the basic principles of procedural
due process under the federal and state constitutions – notice and an
opportunity to be heard.¿ (Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co. (1982) 455 U.S.
422, 428 [minimum due process requires notice and opportunity for hearing
appropriate to the nature of the case]; Horn v. County of Ventura (1979)
24 Cal.3d 605, 612 [due process principles require reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard].)
 
Moreover, the deposition for which Vallera
was personally served, set for February 26, 2024, was taken off calendar by
Defendant. Accordingly, there is no evidence that Vallera disobeyed the
subpoena.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Candi King aka
Candi Vallera’s Appearance at Deposition.
 
            Defendant shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.