 Case Number:  22STCV17484    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17484




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Andres Sijifredo Barajas 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on June 11, 2024 by Petitioner Andres Sijifredo Barajas (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Andres Julian Barajas, age 10. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
In attachment 8, Petitioner provided medical records from
two days after the subject motor vehicle accident. However, the Court requires
further records, or a parent declaration attesting that Claimant is fully recovered
from the chest and back pain. 
 
Due to the selection in item 11b(3), Petitioner must
provide attachment 11b(3). 
 
Petitioner requests $333.33 in attorney fees which
represents 33.33% of the gross settlement. Petitioner must include an attorney
declaration in attachment 13a discussing the factors in California Rules of
Court, rule 7.955(b). The declaration by counsel filed on June 11, 2024 is
insufficient; additionally, the attorney declaration must be attached to the
petition.
 
As stated in the previous petition, attachment 17e must
be provided. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 