 Case Number:  23STCV19129    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV19129




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Plaintiff’s Verified Further Responses to Form
  Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
  Deem Admitted the Truth of the Matters




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant BOP FigAt7th LLC  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Enedino Espinoza  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 18, 2024, Defendant BOP FigAt7th LLC (“Defendant”) served
Form Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff
Enedino Espinoza (“Plaintiff”). The responses were originally due May 2, 2024.
Defendant granted an extension.[1] On
May 20, 2024, Plaintiff served responses.
 
On June 7, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motions to (1) compel
further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One; and (2) deem admitted and
compel further responses to Request for Admissions, Set One. Defendant seeks
monetary sanctions in both motions. Defendant contends the objections in the
responses are without merit. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. There is no
indication in the record that Defendant filed an IDC statement with the Court
or scheduled an IDC for this motion. 
 
Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a
motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).¿
(Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632,
635-36.)¿¿However, the party to whom requests for admission are
directed shall sign the response under oath unless the responses contain only
objections. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.240(a).)
 
Here,
because Plaintiff’s responses to Requests for Admission contain only
objections, a verification is not required. Therefore, a motion to compel is
not appropriate, but rather a motion to compel further, which requires the
moving party to meet and confer, schedule an informal discovery conference, and
file a separate statement. 
 
The
Court therefore continues the motions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the motions to July 31, 2024. The Court
sets an informal discovery conference for July 18, 2024 at 11:00 a.m. Counsel
are ordered to meet and confer by telephone at least 3 days prior to the IDC
and attempt to reach a resolution. If any issues are resolved, the moving party
must email the Court by July 17 at noon at sscdept32FSC@lacourt.org to advise
the Court which issues remain.
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.


