 Case Number:  22STCV26196    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV26196




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved from Waiver of Objections to 
  Requests for Admissions and Requests for Production of Documents 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant Foot Locker
  Retail, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant
  A.J. Molino & Associates, Inc.  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Foot
Locker Retail, Inc. (“Cross-Complainant”), moves for relief from waiver of
objections to Cross-Defendant A.J. Molino & Associates, Inc.’s (“Cross-Defendant”)
Request for Production, Set One and Request for Admission, Set One. Cross-Defendant
opposes and Cross-Complainant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection (or request for admission) waives any objection to the demand,
including based on privilege or work product, unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance and
the party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.300 (a), 2033.280(a).) 
 
The Civil Discovery Act does not include a definition of
“substantial compliance,” and few cases have addressed the circumstances under
which a response will be deemed not in substantial compliance. (See St. Mary
v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778 (St. Mary).)
Substantial compliance means actual compliance with respect to the substance
essential to every reasonable objective of the statute. (Id. at 779.)
However, substantial compliance should not be understood as requiring actual
compliance with every specific statutory requirement. (Ibid.)¿¿ 
¿ 
A court may not find that only some portions of a document
containing responses are code-compliant, but must instead determine whether the document as whole
substantially complies. (St. Mary, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 779–80
[this position is supported by the fact that there is an effective statutory
vehicle to compel a responding party to cure unsatisfactory responses].)¿ 
 
The
statutory language “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” in the
discovery statute should be interpreted using the same general principles
developed in application of the identical language in section 473, subdivision
(b). (Scottsdale Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263,
275.) Although the party moving for relief under section 473 has the burden to
show that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was excusable, any doubts as to
that showing must be resolved in favor of the moving party. (New Albertsons,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Cross-Defendant served Request for Production, Set One and Request for
Admission, Set One on Cross-Complainant on March 5, 2024. The responses were originally
due April 5, 2024. (Sohrabian Decl. ¶ 2-3.) These responses were served on
prior counsel. During this time, Cross-Complainant changed representation and
the case file was being transferred to current counsel (who moved to a
different firm). Current counsel substituted into this case on April 22, 2024.
(Id. ¶ 5.) However, the file still had not been transferred. As a
result, Cross-Complainant requested an extension to May 31, 2024, which
Cross-Defendant granted. However, “[o]n Friday, May 31, 2024, our office
experienced technical issues with the file, so our office emailed
Cross-Defendant’s counsel in the evening that we would have responses by Monday
morning, June 3, 2024. On June 3, 2024, Cross-Defendant’s counsel indicated
that he had not granted the extension and therefore objections were waived.” (Id.
¶ 10-11.) Cross-Complainant’s counsel, Tiffany E. Sohrabian, declares that
because of the “technical issue”, she could not access the Request for
Production, Set One and Request for Admission, Set One. (Id. ¶ 14.)
Cross-Defendant then re-served the discovery on June 6, 2024, and
Cross-Complainant provided responses on June 10, 2024. (Id. ¶ 15-16.) 
 
In opposition, Cross-Defendant confirms that extensions were granted
until May 31, 2024. However, when Cross-Complainant asked to serve responses by
June 3, 2024, it does not appear that Cross-Defendant agreed. (Opp., 3; Kim
Decl. ¶ 24.) Instead, Cross-Defendant demanded responses without objections. Cross-Defendant
argues that counsel acted negligently by attempting to complete the responses
at the end of the day when they were due. (Opp., 5.) It also argues that the
responses are not substantially compliant. 
 
Cross-Complainant describes the “technical issues with the file” with
limited detail and asserts in reply, without a supporting declaration, that “when
Defendant Foot Locker’s counsel attempted to open the discovery documents on
May 31, 2024, in order to complete the responses, she discovered that the files
were corrupted and she was unable to open them. 
Further, she was unable to obtain another copy of the discovery
documents on May 31, 2024, because she did not realize this until after the end
of the business day.” (Reply, 2.) However, it appears that when Cross-Complainant
did receive the re-served electronic versions of discovery on June 6, Cross-Complainant
did not complete the responses on the same day, and did not provide them until
June 10. Cross-Complainant does not explain the further untimeliness or
otherwise provide a basis for the Court to find excusable neglect. This delay
undermines Cross-Complainant’s argument that a “technical issue” resulted in
delay.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Cross-Complainant Foot Locker Retail, Inc.’s Motion to be
Relieved from Waiver of Objections to Requests for Admissions and Requests for Production
of Documents is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 