  Case Number:  24STCV04898    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


August 12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV04898




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant County of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Federico Carlo



 
Plaintiff Federico
Carlo (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendants”) for discrimination
and harassment.  Defendant demurs to
Plaintiff’s complaint.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion.
ANALYSIS
“[A] demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a
demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Plaintiff’s first cause of action is for
retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5. 
To state a cause of action under this provision, Plaintiff must allege
“some statute, rule or regulation which may have been violated by the conduct
[s]he disclosed.”  (Ross v. County of
Riverside (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 580, 592, internal quotations and citation
omitted.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges he
reported threats of workplace violence and Defendant retaliated against
Plaintiff for reporting those threats in contravention of California’s public
policy.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 33-35.)  For pleading purposes, these allegations
suffice.  Defendant may obtain further
information regarding Plaintiff’s claim in this regard through discovery.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  The court,
therefore, overrules the demurrer to the first cause of action.  
Plaintiff’s second, third, fourth, sixth, and
seventh causes of action are for discrimination, harassment, and retaliation
under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA).  FEHA prohibits employment discrimination based
on “race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical
disability, mental disability, reproductive health decisionmaking, medical
condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity,
gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status . . .
.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)  
In the instant case, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff because Plaintiff “was not affiliated
with any deputy gangs and because Plaintiff reported violations of law . . . .”  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 7.)   Lack
of gang affiliation is not a protected category under FEHA.  Thus, this allegation alone cannot support
Plaintiff’s claims under FEHA.  Plaintiff
also alleges a deputy sheriff with whom Plaintiff worked started a rumor that
Plaintiff did not get along with a sergeant at their work site because of a
failed romantic relationship.  Plaintiff
alleges this rumor was false.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 8-11.)   Plaintiff does not allege Plaintiff’s
co-worker started this rumor because of Plaintiff’s gender or sexual
orientation.  As such, it does not amount
to harassment based on a protected category under FEHA.  Likewise, Plaintiff’s allegations Plaintiff’s
coworker challenged Plaintiff to a fight, Plaintiff’s co-workers were upset
about Plaintiff’s comments at a union meeting, and Plaintiff’s co-workers were
disruptive to Plaintiff’s work do not amount to actionable conduct under
FEHA.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 12-15, 22.) 

Plaintiff alleges two
of Plaintiff’s coworkers falsely accused Plaintiff of sexually harassing them,
and falsely reported that Plaintiff had made a racist gesture.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 21, 23, 25.)  Plaintiff does not allege Plaintiff was the
victim of gender-based or racially motivated discrimination or harassment.  Again, this does not amount to actionable
conduct pursuant to FEHA.  The court
sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s second,
third, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action, granting Plaintiff leave to
amend those claims.
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is for
intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”). “The elements of the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct.  Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  The defendant must have
engaged in conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.”  (Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)  
The adverse actions Plaintiff claims
Defendant took against Plaintiff are workplace actions.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 25-30.)  Workers’ compensation provides the exclusive
remedy for emotional distress caused by an employer’s conduct in employment
actions when the misconduct attributed to the employer are a normal part of the
employment relationship. (See Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection District
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 160 [“when the misconduct attributed to the employer is
actions which are a normal part of the employment relationship . . . an
employee suffering emotional distress causing disability may not avoid the
exclusive remedy provisions of the Labor Code”].)  As presently plead, Plaintiff fails to allege
a claim for IIED.
Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action is under
Labor Code section 6310.  Pursuant to
that provision, an employer may not discharge or discriminate in any manner
against an employee for filing a complaint or otherwise exercising the employee’s
rights.  (Lab. Code, § 6310, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant retaliated against
Plaintiff after he complained to Defendant his coworkers threatened him with
physical violence and after Plaintiff complained of workplace safety
concerns.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 86-87.)  For pleading purposes, Plaintiff’s allegations
suffice.  The court, therefore, overrules
the demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to the first and eighth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is
overruled.  Defendant’s demurrer is
otherwise sustained as to the other causes of action with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint
within 10 days.  
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 