 Case Number:  BS171465    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


August 12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


BS171465




MOTION


Motion to Quash




MOVING PARTY


Third Party Wayne Himselsein




OPPOSING PARTY


Judgment Creditor National Pacific Corporation



 
MOTION
Third Party Wayne
Himselsein (“Himselsein”) moves to quash a notice of judgment debtor examination
Judgment Creditor National Pacific Corporation (“National Pacific”) served on
Himselsein.  National Pacific opposes the
motion.  
ANALYSIS
The court may order a third party to appear
for examination if the court finds that the judgment creditor has made an
adequate showing the third party is in possession or control of property in
which the judgment debtor has an interest or the third party is indebted to the
debtor for more than $250.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 708.120, subd. (a).)  To date, the court
has not ordered Himselsein to appear for examination.  As such, Himselsein is not required to appear
for examination on his own behalf.  
However, National Pacific seeks to
compel Judgment Debtor Innovation Advisory Group, Inc. (“Innovation Advisory”) to
appear for examination.  To do so,
National Pacific must serve Innovation Advisory with the notice of judgment
debtor examination by a method the Code of Civil Procedure or Corporations Code
permits.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.150,
subd. (c)(3).)  Himselsein is noted to be
a corporate officer of Innovation Advisory in a document entitled Secretary of
State Certificate of Surrender, which is attached as Exhibit A to his
declaration in support of the motion to quash. 
Further, in the “Final Award” issued in this matter, it is stated that “[Innovation
Advisory] is owned and/or controlled” by Himselsein.  (Declaration of Wayne Himselsein, Exhibit (C).)
  Under the circumstances, National Pacific is
authorized to serve Innovation Advisory by way of service on Himselsein.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 416.10, subd. (b).) 
National Pacific left the notice of
judgment debtor examination on Himselsein’s steps because Himselsein, after
identifying himself through a Ring camera at his residence, refused to leave
the residence and accept the notice; instead, he asked the process server to
leave the documents by the camera.  (See
Opposition to Motion to Quash, Exhibit B.) 
That constitutes valid service on Innovation Advisory.  (See Trujillo v. Trujillo (1945) 71 Cal.App.2d
257, 260 [where process server identifies himself or herself to party, informs
party of service, and leaves documents as close as possible to party, service
is valid despite party’s refusal to accept documents].)  
Himselsein contends National Pacific
lacks good cause to conduct a judgment debtor examination on Innovation
Advisory.  But there is no requirement
that National Pacific demonstrate good cause. 
As Himselsein concedes, National Pacific has a judgment against
Innovation Advisory.  National Pacific is,
therefore, entitled to conduct a judgment debtor examination.
Accordingly, the motion to quash is
denied.  
Himselsein is to give
notice of this order and file proof of service of same. 