  Case Number:  20SMCV00406    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Rosamond Ranch
LP, v. South La Cienega Holdings LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00406
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses 
HEARING DATE:   12/1/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation] Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence. [Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) 
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents (RPD) may be brought
based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections. (CCP§ 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel
further responses to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”
(CCP. § 2031.310(b)(1).) “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the
moving party to show both: [¶] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the
information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the
case); and [¶] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why such information
is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.) [Citations.]
[¶] The fact that there is no alternative source for the information sought is
an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for inspection. But it is not
essential in every case.” (Edmon & Karnow, California Practice Guide: Civ.
Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 8:1495.6.) 
 
            A motion to compel further must be
noticed within 45 days of the
service of a response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing. Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right
to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See, e.g., CCP §
2031.310(c).)
 
            Motions to compel further responses
must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per CCP §
2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §§ 2030.300(b),
2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) They must also be accompanied by a separate
statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as
reasons why a further response is warranted. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).) The
separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may
be incorporated by reference. (CRC rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or
failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
 
Analysis
 
This hearing regards three sets of
discovery motions by Cross-Complainant South La Cienega Holdings, LLC (SLHS). In
the first set, SLCH moves to compel further responses to certain Requests for
Production (Sets One) propounded on a) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Rosamond
Ranch, LP; b) Cross-Defendant Calitex, LLC; c) Cross-Defendant Derek Boisse;
and d) Cross-Defendant Elias Shokrian (the Compel Further motions). In the
second set, SLCH moves to compel Rosamond and Calitex to produce documents they
“thus far withheld, in compliance with its prior representations” of compliance
(the Compliance Motions). Lastly, SLCH moves to compel the previously noticed
deposition of cross-defendant Neri Sarra (the Deposition Motion). SLCH also
requests sanctions for each motion.
 
Responding parties bring an omnibus
opposition to the motions. They argue that the motions seek duplicative
discovery from Rosamond and Calitex. Responding parties represent that the two
requested sets of documents were not intentionally omitted, but mistakenly not
produced. Responding parties believe that the pending discovery issues will be
resolved by the hearing on these motions.
 
Compel Further Responses
 
Each of the Compel Further motions
seeks Cross-Defendant’s code-compliant response to Cross-Complainants’
respective Requests for Production, Set One. Cross-Defendants’ outgoing lawyers
provided the operative “Second Further Responses” to the RPDs. (Knox Decl., ¶
14.) The Second Further Responses made the following, statement of compliance:
 
“Responding Party is not
withholding any responsive documents, except for what is organized and labeled
within Responding Party’s privilege log and for which any objections apply,
except what is to be confirmed based on any assumed objections and what is
referenced in the concurrently filed objections. Therefore, no further
responsive documents will be produced.” 
 
(See Knox Decl., ¶ 14; Ex. H.)
 
This evasive statement is not a complete
statement of compliance. (CCP § 2031.310(c).)  The phrasing suggests that the responding
parties are improperly withholding additional documents based on objections
other than privilege. Further, responding parties do not justify any of their
objections in opposition, including any claims of burden or privilege. 
 
Accordingly, the motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. Calitex, Rosamond, Shokrian, and Boisse are to
provide code-compliant supplemental responses to Cross-Complainants’ Requests
for Production, Set One, and to produce any responsive documents in line with
the further response within 10 days.
 
Compliance
 
In response to SLCH’s RPDs, Calitex and Rosamond stated
that they would produce documents. Specifically, Cross-Defendants represented
that they would produce (a) leases of the various tenants and subtenants at the
property in dispute; and (b) complete tenant and rent ledgers, general ledgers,
and related accounting records, which they have produced only in part and have
failed to produce in native format. In opposition, responding parties represent
that the two requested sets of documents were not intentionally omitted, but
mistakenly not produced. Further, responding parties believe that the pending
discovery issues will be resolved by the hearing on these motions.
 
In reply, SLCH provides that defense counsel has made
some efforts to address the deficiencies in document production by making a
supplemental production on October 11, 2023, of responsive documents that had
previously been improperly withheld. (Knox Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. E.)
Cross-Defendants’ recent production includes a tenant ledger for the 3051
Property (Bates No. 0090114-0090118).  According
to SLCH, the produced ledger is limited to transactions relating to a single
tenant’s lease, with the identified transactions starting only at that lessee’s
April 2020 move-in date to the 3051-B space. (Supp. Knox Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. F.)
The prior production included only ledgers showing transactions for 3051-C, and
only through September 2019. SLCH asserts that under responding parties’
statements of compliance, they are entitled to the complete ledger for the 3051
Property, dating back to commencement of their and their co-tenant’s leases in
January 2018. (Knox Decl., ¶¶ 7, 8; Exs. E-F.) SLCH also contends that
electronically maintained accounting records have not been produced in their
native format, as required by the requests. (Supp. Knox Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. F.)
 
Indeed, responsive documents would
include any ledgers reflecting transactions regarding the 3051-A space and the
broader 3051 Property during the specified period. SLCH is also entitled to
responsive electronic accounting documents in their native format. (CCP §
2031.280(c)-(d).) As responding parties have not demonstrated their compliance
with their own statements, the motion is GRANTED. Calitex and Rosamond are
ordered to produce any remaining documents identified in the Compliance
Motions, including electronic accounting records in native format, within 10
days.
 
Deposition
 
SLCH moves to compel Ms. Sarra to
appear for deposition. On August 16, 2023, Cross-Complainants served a proper
notice of deposition upon Ms. Sarra. The deposition notice set her examination for
September 13, 2023. (Knox Decl., ¶ 4.) Ms. Sarra did not serve any objections
to the notice of her deposition, nor did she contact SLCH counsel requesting to
reschedule or advising that she would not appear. (Knox Decl., ¶ 5.) She also
did not respond to follow-up inquiries regarding her deposition. (Knox Decl., ¶
6.)
 
Sarra argues that the motion is
moot because counsel has agreed to produce her for her deposition.  (Park Decl., ¶ B1.) Counsel explains that
Sarra is a former employee of Calitex who now lives in Virginia. (Id.) She was
in pro-per when her deposition was noticed, and she had suffered a heart-attack
in May of this year and was unable to respond to the deposition notice when served.
(Id.) Now with counsel, she is willing to attend her deposition without court
order. However, her willingness to now participate in her deposition does not
moot the motion, as her deposition has not yet taken place. 
 
SLCH has demonstrated that Sarra
failed to attend her properly noticed deposition and has not yet been deposed.
Accordingly, the motion to compel attendance is GRANTED. Sarra must attend her
deposition at a reasonable time and location, within 10 days.
 
SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiffs request sanctions against
Calitex in the amount of $3,915; Rosamond in the amount of $3,915; Shokrian in the amount of $3,915; Boisse in the amount of $3,915;
and Sarra in the amount of $435. (See Knox Decl., ¶ 16 [anticipated 9 hours in
tasks related to the Motions directed to Cross-Defendants Rosamond, Calitex,
Shokrian and Boisse at a billable rate of $435 per hour].)
 
Generally, sanctions are mandatory. The
Court must sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response, “unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (See, e.g., CCP, § 2030.300(d).) Calitex,
Rosamond, Shokrian, and Boisse fail to justify their opposition to the motions
to compel further and motions to compel compliance. They merely represent that
they would comply with their discovery obligations prior to the hearing date,
without further justification. Further, the record shows that the parties
themselves, rather than counsel, engaged in discovery abuse. (See Knox Decl., ¶
4.) Therefore, sanctions are appropriate against these parties.
 
Sanctions against Sarra and counsel
are unreasonable considering the record. Sarra was in pro-per when her
deposition was noticed and had medical issues which provide substantial
justification for her non-response. Further, she is apparently willing to
attend her deposition without further court order. Therefore, sanctions would
be unjust.
 
Given the substantial overlap
between the various motions, the sanctions requests are necessarily duplicative
and overinflated. (Knox Decl., ¶ 16.) The Court will adjust the sanctions
accordingly. Therefore, sanctions are GRANTED in the reduced total amount of $3,335.00,
inclusive of costs, against Rosamond, Calitex, Shokrian and Boisse, jointly and
severally. Sanctions are to be paid within 30 days. 