 Case Number:  23STCV174556    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WASTEXPERTS, INC.,  
 
  
         vs.
 
THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV17456
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 24, 2024



 
Defendant Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. dba Athens
Services’ motion for an order awarding monetary and nonmonetary sanctions
against Plaintiff WasteXperts,
Inc. and its attorney of record, Christopher Frost, and the law firm, Frost
LLP, jointly and severally, is denied.
 
Defendant Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. dba
Athens Services (“Athens”) (“Defendant”) moves for an
order of monetary and nonmonetary sanctions against Plaintiff WasteXperts,
Inc. (“WasteXperts”) (“Plaintiff”) and its attorney of record, Christopher
Frost, and the law firm, Frost LLP, jointly and severally.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §128.7.)  Defendant requests this Court impose terminating
sanctions, monetary sanctions sufficient to reimburse Defendant for all
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred as the direct result of the filing of the
complaint presently equivalent to $43,418, and any other order this Court deems
just.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1.)
 
Background
On June 15, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint in LASC Case No. 22STCV19512, a related case, against Defendant
and City of Los Angeles (“City”), which included as the first cause of action
the declaratory relief claim asserted again here, as well as four other claims
(“Case One”).   Defendant filed an
anti-SLAPP motion in Case One (“Case One anti-SLAPP motion”), arguing that the
anti-SLAPP statute applied to Plaintiff’s declaratory relief cause of action
and every other cause of action, and that Plaintiff failed to establish a
probability of prevailing on the declaratory relief cause of action or any
other cause of action.  (10/24/22
Ruling.)  The complaint in Case One was
struck, and this Court entered judgment in Defendant’s favor and awarded
attorneys’ fees.  Plaintiff appealed this
Court’s ruling on the Case One anti-SLAPP motion, which is pending.
          On July 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative complaint
in this case (“Case Two”) against Defendant and the City[1]
for a single cause of action for declaratory relief.  On October 4, 2023, Defendant filed the
anti-SLAPP motion in this case (“Case Two anti-SLAPP motion”).  On November 16, 2023, this Court granted the
Case Two anti-SLAPP motion and directed Defendant to move for an award of
attorneys’ fees and costs.  (11/16/23
Minute Order.)  On December 4, 2023, the
Judgment in this case was signed and filed. 
Plaintiff appealed this Court’s ruling on the Case Two anti-SLAPP
motion, which is pending.
          Defendant filed the instant motion on October 4, 2023.  Plaintiff filed its opposition on January 10,
2024.  Defendant filed its reply on
January 17, 2024.
 
Motion for Sanctions
          An attorney or unrepresented party who
presents a pleading, motion or similar paper to the court makes an implied
“certification” as to its legal and factual merit; and is subject to sanctions
for violation of this certification.  (C.C.P.
§128.7.)  The purpose of the statute is
“to check abuses in the filing of pleadings, petitions, written notices of
motions or similar papers.”  (Musaelian
v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th 512, 514.)
C.C.P.
§128.7(b) provides:
By presenting a
pleading, petition, motion, or other similar paper to the court, an attorney
certifies all of the following:
 
(1) It is not being
presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause
unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2) The claims,
defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or
by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law or the establishment of new law.
 
(3) The allegations and
other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so
identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable
opportunity for further investigation or discovery.
 
(4) The denials of
factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so
identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief.
 
(C.C.P. §128.7(b).)
A
C.C.P. §128.7 motion involves a two-step process.  The moving party first serves the sanctions
motion on the offending party without filing it. The opposing party then has 21
days to withdraw the improper pleading and avoid sanctions (the so-called “safe
harbor” waiting period).  At the end of
the waiting period, if the pleading is not withdrawn, the moving party may then
file the motion.  (C.C.P. §128.7(c)(1); Primo
Hospitality Group, Inc. v. Haney (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 165, 173-174; Martorana
v. Marlin & Saltzman (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 685, 698-699.)
With
regard to the first step in a motion for sanctions, Defendant’s motion’s proof
of service indicates it complied with the safe harbor waiting period
requirement by serving the instant motion on Plaintiff on September 7, 2023,
during which time Plaintiff did not withdraw the Complaint.  Defendant then filed the instant motion with
the Court on October 4, 2023. 
Defendant’s motion is proper.
Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendant’s motion is improper on the basis that Defendant’s
notice of motion did not strictly comply with the safe harbor requirements is
unavailing.  Defendant provided Plaintiff
with adequate, written notice of the January 24, 2024, hearing date for the
instant motion and the opportunity to withdraw the complaint within the 21-day
safe harbor period.  Here, Defendant
provided notice of the hearing date and location of the hearing on the cover
page of the document. The typographic error on the prefiling notice during the
safe harbor period, which is at issue, was clarified within the motion itself with
the correct date and cannot meaningfully be construed as depriving Plaintiff of
sufficient notice of the opportunity to withdraw the complaint within the safe
harbor period.
Under
§128.7, a court may impose sanctions for filing a pleading, petition, motion,
or similar paper if filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably without
merit, either legally, or factually.  (Guillemin
v. Stein (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 156, 168.) 
A claim is factually frivolous if “not well grounded in fact” and
legally frivolous if “not warranted by existing law or a good faith argument
for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.”  (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 428, 442.)  A claim is
objectively unreasonable if “any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is
totally and completely without merit.”  (Id.)  
          Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint was not
objectively unreasonable because it is arguable Plaintiff believed the
declaratory relief cause of action in Case Two was substantially different from
the declaratory relief cause of action in Case One.  In Case One, the declaratory relief claim sought
a judicial declaration as to rights and duties of Defendant as well as the
City, including rights conferred to the two parties under the Franchise
Agreement, to which Plaintiff is not a party. 
In Case Two, Plaintiff’s cause of action only seeks a declaration as to
the rights and duties of only Plaintiff, specifically as to its ability to
conduct its business—i.e., operating and providing onsite waste and recycling
management services to its customers.  (Compare
Complaint Case One ¶32 with Complaint Case Two ¶24.)
          The instant motion for sanction is
also not warranted, given that Defendant already has an adequate remedy to seek
reimbursement of its fees and costs pursuant to the anti-SLAPP Statute.  (C.C.P. §425.16(c)(1).)  C.C.P. §128.7 sanctions are not designed to be
punitive in nature, but rather shall be limited to what is sufficient to deter
repetition of this conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated.  (See C.C.P. §128.7(d).)  Therefore, the Court exercises its discretion
to deny the requested sanctions on this motion in light of the upcoming motion
for attorneys’ fees, which is a more appropriate method to deter repetition of
the conduct demonstrated by Plaintiff in Case Two.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for sanctions against Plaintiff is denied.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion for an order
awarding non-monetary and monetary sanctions against Plaintiff is denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  January _____, 2024
                                                                                





  