  Case Number:  23SMCV00964    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  SOCAL LIEN SOLUTIONS, LLC,   Plaintiff, v.  SUAREZ BUILD CONSTRUCTION, INC., et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV00964     Hearing Date:  December 16, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   CROSS-DEFENDANT PLATTE RIVER’S    MOTION TO DEPOSIT BOND AMOUNT,    CANCEL AND EXONERATE BOND,    DISCHARGE LIABILITY, FOR    ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS AND    TO BE DISMISSED    BACKGROUND  This dispute arises out of the construction of an approximately 18,000 square foot home in Pacific Palisades, California, located at 15954 Alcima Avenue (the “Property”).  Defendant 15951 Alcima LLC (“Alcima”) is the owner of the Property.  Defendant Suarez Build Construction Inc. (“Suarez”) served as a general contractor to Alcima.   Suarez requested construction services from KE General Building Inc. (“KE”).  Alcima allegedly agreed to the requests for construction services by accepting and directly benefiting from the construction services provided by KE and further by Alcima directly paying KE for said services.   KE assigned its claims to Plaintiff SoCal Lien Solutions LLC (“SoCal”).  SoCal claims that despite KE having performed the construction services requested by Suarez, Suarez and Alcima have failed and refused to pay the remaining balance due of $49,537.43.   Alcima filed a cross-complaint against Suarez and KE.  Alcima alleges Suarez and KE performed the construction in a negligent manner.  Alcima also sued various insurance companies that issued a contractor’s license bond to Suarez and KE.  Among them is Cross-Defendant Platte River Insurance Company (“Platte River”) which issued a bond in the sum of $25,000 to KE (the “Bond”).   The operative cross-complaint alleges (1) breach of contract (against KE and Suarez), (2) negligence (against KE and Suarez), (3) recovery on contractor’s license bond, and (4) recovery of payments to unlicensed contractors. This hearing is on Platte River’s motion to deposit Bond amount, cancel and exonerate Bond, discharge liability, for attorneys’ fees and costs, and to be dismissed.  Platte River maintains it is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the sums in dispute.  Platte River also argues that Alcima is not entitled to the full $25,000, as it is not a homeowner, so only $7,500 of the Bond (available to non-homeowners) should be deposited.  Further, Platte River seeks attorneys’ fees and costs of $2,890.32 pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 386.6, which sum it requests to be deducted from the deposit.    LEGAL STANDARD  If the defendant-stakeholder claims no interest in the funds or property held, it need not file an interpleader cross-complaint.  It may simply apply to the court for permission to deposit the money or property with the court clerk, and for an order discharging it from further liability to the adverse claimants.  Such order will also substitute the adverse claimants as parties to the action; or, if only money is involved, simply dismiss the stakeholder.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386, subd. (a),¿386.5.)  The motion must be supported by an affidavit by the stakeholder establishing the ground for interpleader. (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, Subd. (a).) The supporting affidavit must also state that the moving party is “a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to the action…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.5.)  Notice of the motion must be served on each of the adverse claimants to the funds or property. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386, subd. (a),¿386.5.) “Where a deposit has been made pursuant to¿Section 386, the court shall, upon the application of any party to the action, order such deposit to be invested in an insured interest bearing account.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.1.) The stakeholder may seek reimbursement for its costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred. (UAP-Columbus JV 326132 v. Nesbitt (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1028, 1036.)  The court may order payment thereof out of the funds deposited by the stakeholder.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.6.)  DISCUSSION There is no dispute that Platte River is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the claims in dispute.  (Hinton Decl. ¶4.)  For purposes of this hearing, the only issues are (1) whether Alcima is entitled to the full $25,000, and (2) the amount of attorneys’ fees and costs due Platte River. Amount of Bond Platte River argues that Alcima is not a homeowner, and is therefore limited to $7,500 in recovery against the Bond under the Business and Professions Code.  The Court agrees. Bus. & Prof. § 7071.6(b) provides that except as to homeowner claimants, the “aggregate liability of a surety on claims brought against a bond … shall not exceed the sum of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500).”  Homeowners may recover up to $25,000.  Bus. & Prof. Code § 7071.5(a) defines a homeowner claimant as:   A homeowner contracting for home improvement upon the homeowner’s personal family residence damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter by the licensee.  Thus, in order to qualify as a “homeowner” claimant under Bus. & Prof. Code § 7071.5(a), a claimant must (1) contract for home improvement; (2) upon his or her personal family residence; (3) and be damaged by the contractor’s violations of the Business and Professions Code.  Here, Alcima is a limited liability company.  An LLC as a corporate entity cannot have a family, and thus cannot possess a personal family residence.   In its opposition, Alcima LLC argues, “If the legislature had sought to exclude homeowners who take title through an LLC from these consumer-protection statutes, then the legislature could have drafted the law to say as much.” This argument by Alcima LLC patently ignores the phrase “the homeowner’s personal family residence.” The legislature intended this law to protect individuals whose personal family residence was damaged.  If it intended to include LLC claimants it would have drafted the language of the law more broadly to allow for corporate entities to be included, since it is obvious that a limited liability company cannot have a “personal family residence.”  Alcima LLC contends that Craig Clemens, the individual who owns Alcima LLC and lives in the house should be considered a homeowner and can bring the claim through the LLC.  But Section 17701.04(a) of the Corp. Code states that “a limited liability company is an entity distinct from its members.”  (See also PacLink Communications Int'l, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (Yeung) 90 Cal. App. 4th 958, 963 (2001) (holding an LLC is recognized as a legal entity separate and apart from its “members”). Furthermore, Corp Code § 17300 states, “A membership interest and an economic interest in a limited liability company constitute personal property of the member or assignee. A member or assignee has no interest in specific limited liability company property.” This status as a separate legal entity allows the members of an LLC to protect themselves from liability, but the LLC does not take on the properties of its members, nor do members have a direct interest in the property for which the LLC holds title.  Mr. Clemens cannot enjoy the legal protections that this distinction brings while simultaneously claiming the benefits of statutes intended to benefit individuals who take greater risk owning their homes directly.  Alcima LLC quotes the Cambridge Dictionary, which defines “homeowner” as “a person who owns their house or apartment.”  Even accepting this definition of “homeowner,” the LLC is not “a person.”  If Cambridge Dictionary intended to include an LLC in its definition, it would have stated a “person or entity that owns a house or apartment.”  Alcima then argues that because the Contractors State License law is a consumer protection law, a homeowner should not be precluded from recovering the full amount of the Bond merely because he holds title through an LLC.  But this argument ignores the plain language of the statute which requires that the improvements must be contracted on “the homeowner’s personal family residence.”  Alcima cannot rely on public policy to circumvent the plain language of the statute.   In construing a¿statute, courts may consider¿public¿policy, but¿only¿if the language of the¿statute¿is¿ambiguous.¿ (Estate of Britel¿(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 127, 138.)  Considerations of policy do not permit us to ignore the plain language of the statute.¿(Mercury Ins. Co. v. Vanwanseele-Walker¿(1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1103.)¿“[N]o legislation pursues its purposes at all costs. Deciding what competing values will or will not be sacrificed to the achievement of a particular objective is the very essence of legislative choice—and it frustrates rather than effectuates legislative intent simplistically to assume that¿whatever¿furthers the statute’s primary objective must be the law. Where, as here, the¿language of a provision … is sufficiently clear in its context and not at odds with¿¿the legislative history, … [we should not] examine the additional considerations of policy … that may have influenced the lawmakers in their formulation of the statute.”  (County of Sonoma v. Cohen¿(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 42, 48.) In sum, under the plain language of 7071.5(a), an LLC was not intended to be able to bring a license bond claim as a homeowner claimant.  Accordingly, only $7,500 of the Bond should be deposited, and the remainder of the Bond is canceled.   Amount of Fees/Costs Code Civ. Proc. § 386.6 authorizes the payment of costs and attorney fees to Platte River from the money deposited with the Clerk of the Court:   (a) A party to an action who follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of his costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the discharge of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court may make such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees by one or more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.  Code Civ. Proc. § 386.6.  Platte River has incurred $2,854.50 for attorneys’ fees and $35.82 for costs in connection with depositing the amount of the Bond, including the preparation, filing, and hearing of the pending motion. (Brandt Decl. ¶ 4.)  The fees are based on an hourly rate of $245 for an associate and $295 for a partner.  The Court concludes the hourly rates are reasonable and much lower than rates charged in the prevailing Los Angeles market.   The hours spent total 11.1 hours to prepare the motion plus an additional hour to reply to any opposition and appear at any hearing.  The Court concludes these hours are reasonable.   Platte River also seeks costs of $35.82 (which consist of $30 for a motion filing fee plus $5.82 for e-filing.)  These costs are also reasonable.   Alcima contends that Platte River’s request for attorney fees is not supported by admissible evidence.  Its argument is predicated on the fact that “no declaration by Mr. Malloy was submitted to authenticate that this time was spent on the matter.” The declaration of Ms. Brandt, however, was submitted to authenticate Mr. Molloy’s time.  Ms. Brandt is Mr. Molloy’s direct supervisor and is able to verify that the 8.4 hours billed by Mr. Molloy were spent researching and drafting this motion.   Alcima then argues that because it never disputed Platte River’s right to interplead the Bond funds and has only disputed the amount of the Bond recoverable, the time spent on the motion is not recoverable.  In Sweeney v. McClaran (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 824, the court determined that a surety is entitled to recover fees incurred “in pursuit of the stakeholder’s remedy,” and “including fees to overcome resistance to the remedy.”  (Id. at 828-31.)  Here, all of Platte River’s requested fees and costs were incurred in pursuit of its stakeholder’s remedy.  The dispute over what was the proper amount of the Bond to be deposited required this motion to be brought, and Platte River is entitled to recover fees necessary to overcome resistance to its remedy.   Accordingly, the Court will award Platte River $2,854.50 to be deducted from the amount to be deposited to the Court.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Platte River’s motion to deposit bond amount, to cancel and exonerate the bond, discharge liability, for attorneys’ fees and costs and to be dismissed.  Platte River is ordered to deposit $4,609.68 ($7,500 less attorneys’ fees and costs of $2,890.32) with the Clerk of the Court.  Upon deposit, the Bond is canceled and exonerated, and Platte River is dismissed from this action.        IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: December 16, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 