 Case Number:  23TRCV00974    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    January 16, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV00974
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Giuseppe
Sanzone; Caroline Petersen v. FCA US LLC, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1)
Plaintiffs, Giuseppe Sanzone; Caroline
Petersen
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1)
Defendants, FCA US LLC
 
TRIAL DATE:                       May 27, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Defendant, FCA
US LLC to  Respond, without Objections,
to Requests for Production of Documents, Special Interrogatories, Requests for
Admission, and Form Interrogatories, Set On. 
                                                (2)
Request for Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED, except that the
Court DENIES the motion for deemed admissions. 
 The Court finds the substantive motions
were not mooted by defense counsel’s service of written responses since none of
the four response documents contained a verification, and thus the purportedly
mooting responses are not Code-compliant on their face.  The Court orders FCA to provide VERIFIED
amended or further responses without objection, including responses to the RFAs,
within 20 days.  
                                                (2)
GRANTED.  The subject discovery motions
were all required to be filed by Plaintiffs due to defense counsel’s having
lost track of incoming discovery and response deadlines.  While the Court appreciates that mistakes
happen and that Lemon Law litigation post-COVID has seen an explosion in
volume, even the unverified responses would likely not have been generated or
served had Plaintiffs not filed these motions. 
Monetary sanctions are mandatory in such a circumstance.  The Court awards $2,500 payable within 20
days to plaintiffs’ counsel, with the sanctions ordered payable by defense
counsel’s office given the declaration of attorney neglect explaining why the
responses were not prepared until after service of the subject motion.  
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiffs, Giuseppe Sanzone and
Caroline Petersen (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, FCA US LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of
Express Warranty; (2) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act –
Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act – Breach of § 1793.2(b); and (4) Violation of Business and Professions Code
§ 17200. 
 
Plaintiffs moving papers state that on August 11,
2023, they served on Defendant, Requests for Production of Documents, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Admission, and Form Interrogatories, Set One.
Despite this, Plaintiffs contend that as of the filing of this motion,
Plaintiffs had not received any of Defendant’s responses. Plaintiffs even
contend that although not required prior to filing a motion to compel initial
responses, on October 24, 2023, Plaintiffs attempted to meet and confer with
defense counsel, requesting verified substantive responses before filing this
motion. However, Plaintiffs assert that despite multiple follow up attempts,
Defendant has failed to provide any substantive responses to the discovery. As
a result, Plaintiffs have brought this motion to compel responses without
objection. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On December 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Motions for
order compelling Defendant’s responses. On January 3, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition. On January 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411
Further, where there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil
Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling
a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all objections,
including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand
was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to
the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses.
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve
the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only
a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is
required. 
 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Here, prior to the filing of Plaintiffs’
motion, Plaintiffs asserted that they had not received any responses to their
four propounded discovery requests. In Defendant’s opposition, however, it
notes that this December 13, 2023 motion should be mooted because since
Plaintiffs’ filing of the initial motion, they have served Plaintiffs with
responses to all the subject discovery requests on December 19, 2024, i.e., a
week after the motion to compel was filed.   The Opposition papers omit the fact that the
served responses were not, and apparently still have not been, verified.  Normally, the service and receipt of belated
responses would moot a motion to compel, but not when the responses are
unverified.  Also, untimely service of even
Code-compliant responses would not moot the request for monetary sanctions,
which will be discussed below. 
 
This Court further notes that due to the
untimely responses, Plaintiffs’ reply brief suggests that Plaintiffs’ next
filing would be of a motion to compel further responses, for an order
overruling all objections, and for additional monetary sanctions. To guide the
parties and potentially avoid another set of additional motions, the Court will
issue an advisory ruling to perhaps limit the need for much of the anticipated
further activity. If the parties can stipulate to extend the 45-day period to
move to compel the December 19, 2023 discovery responses, the Court’s advisory
ruling is that, based on the record currently before the Court, the Court would
be inclined to require Defendant to provide verified further or supplemental
responses to the interrogatories and document demands, without objection, and
to produce documents responsive to Plaintiff’s discovery requests, within a
date certain. Moreover, this Court would be inclined to require Defendant to
provide further or supplemental responses to the Requests for Admission with no
objections within that date certain. These advisory rulings are without
prejudice to a future motion to compel further responses to the subject
discovery requests. 
 
C.   
Sanctions 
 
Plaintiffs
also seek sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $2,760. Sanctions are
mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and
requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel. (CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),
2030.300(d), 2031.300(c), and 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not
mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Id.) 
 
Here,
this Court does not find substantial justification but does find that the
belated responses only came as a result of the motion being filed, which
justifies mandatory monetary sanctions. Plaintiffs’ sanction amount is based on
Plaintiffs’ counsel spending four (4) hours to prepare the consolidated motion,
an anticipated two (2) hours of work to review any opposition, prepare a reply,
and attend any hearings as need, the $60 filing fee, and on his hourly rate of
$450. In opposition, Defendant argues that sanctions should be denied due to
the handling attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect, but the
Court disagrees with defense counsel. Counsel for Defendant noted that once the
inadvertent calendaring error was found out, defense counsel immediately
prepared the responses. However, Plaintiffs have noted that meet and confer
correspondence, and follow-ups were sent to defense counsel, and despite this,
Defendant still did not serve responses until after the filing of this motion.
Defendant’s claim that the sanction request should be mooted is unfounded. As
such, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions in the
lowered amount of $2,500 against Defense Counsel to be paid to Plaintiffs’
counsel within that same 20-day period. 
 
 