  Case Number:  22PSCV01214    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants M.B. Sturgis, Inc. and Weber-Stephen
Products, LLC’s Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants M.B. Sturgis, Inc. and Weber-Stephen
Products, LLC’s Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is
GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On October
10, 2022, Plaintiffs Michael Pierson[1], individually and as the
successor-in-interest to the Estate of Katie Pierson, and Courtney Pierson
filed a complaint against Defendants M.B. Sturgis, Inc. (M.B. Sturgis), Enerco
Group, Inc. (Enerco), Coloma Food Inc. (Coloma Food), Worthington Industries,
Inc. (Worthington), Grand Gas Equipment Inc. (Grand Gas), and Does 1-50,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) strict product liability, (2)
negligence-product liability, (3) strict production liability, (4)
negligence-product liability, (5) breach of express and implied warranties, (6)
strict product liability, (7) negligence-product liability, and (8) negligence.
On
November 7, 2022, the Piersons filed an amendment to the Complaint replacing
Coloma Food with Coloma Store Inc. (Coloma Store).
On
December 6, 2022, Coloma Store filed a cross complaint against M.B. Sturgis,
Enerco, Worthington, Grand Gas, and Roes 1-100, alleging equitable indemnity.
On
July 5, 2023, Enerco filed a motion for change of venue. On July 6, Worthington
joined Enerco’s motion.
On
July 24, 2023, the court approved Coloma Store’s settlement with the Piersons.
On
August 17, 2023, M.B. Sturgis and Weber-Stephen Products, LLC (Weber-Stephen) filed
the present application. A hearing on their application is set for September
21.
ANALYSIS
M.B.
Sturgis and Weber-Stephen move for a determination of good faith settlement
with the Piersons. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS the motion.
Legal Standard
In
a noticed motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision
(a)(1), “[a]ny party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more
parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors.” “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in
good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt),
the supreme court identified factors courts consider when determining if a
settlement is in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. However,
when the good faith nature of a settlement is uncontested, the court need not
consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. (City of Grand Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “[W]hen no one objects,
the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by
a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (Ibid.)
Discussion
In this
case, the court finds M.B. Sturgis and Weber-Stephen’s application adequately
describes the background of this case. The court also finds the motion provides
sufficient reasoning as to why the settlement was reached in good faith, with M.B.
Sturgis and Weber-Stephen recognizing settlement now results in a lower amount
than could be awarded at trial and avoids attorney fees, costs, and expenses of
additional litigation. They also state the settlement is free of any collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed at injuring the interests of non-settling
parties.
Accordingly,
because the court is not in receipt of any timely opposition and the motion provides
sufficient grounds for a good faith determination, it is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS M.B. Sturgis and Weber-Stephen’s motion for a determination
of good faith settlement.


