 Case Number:  23PSCV02007    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling



DEFENDANT FOOTHILL TRANSIT’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
COMPLAINT is OVERRULED in part (i.e., 1st COA for
negligence) and SUSTAINED in part with leave to amend (i.e., as
to the 2nd COA for negligent hiring, retention, supervision).  
 
Background
 
This is a negligence case. Plaintiff ERIC LUTZ alleges
the following against Defendants FOOTHILL TRANSIT (“Foothill Transit” or
“Foothill”), a public transit agency; KEOLIS TRANSIT OF AMERICA, INC.
(“Keolis”), a California corporation; DARLENE DEE PATINO (the “Driver”): the
driver struck Plaintiff while he was walking and had the right-of-way.  
 
On July 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit alleging the
following causes of action: 1.    
Negligence
(against all Defendants) 2.    
Negligent
Hiring/Retention/Supervision Training (against Foothill Transit and Keolis).
 
On August 8, 2023, Keolis and the Driver filed their
answer. 
 
On September 29, 2023, Foothill Transit filed the
demurrer. 
 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On October 20, 2023, Foothill Transit filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer
may be asserted, in pertinent part, on the grounds that (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or that the (f) The
pleading is uncertain (“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible).
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 430.10, Demurrer pp. 3-4.) Accordingly, a demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on
the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  CCP
§430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. 
 
Discussion
 
Foothill Transit demurs on the
following grounds: (i) Plaintiff fails to properly allege a cause of action for
negligence because Foothill Transit is immune from liability for common law
negligence and (ii) the second cause of action fails because there is no
statutory basis for the COA. More specifically, as to both, Foothill Transit
avers that the complaint fails to adhere to the requirement that in order to state a cause of action for
government tort liability, every fact essential to the existence of statutory
liability must be pleaded with particularity. 
 
1.    
Negligence
 
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are
well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of
such legal duty; and (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.” (Ladd v. Cnty. of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 913,
917.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts a negligence COA against Foothill
Transit based upon the following pertinent allegations: 
 
Defendant FOOTHILL TRANSIT, per
Government Code section 815.2 and California Vehicle Code section 17001,[1]
is vicariously liable for the injuries and damages proximately caused by such
negligence and failures of [the Driver] . . . Defendants knew or should have
known that bus operators would be required to operate passenger buses through
busy neighborhoods, making frequent starts and stops in close proximity to
pedestrians, as distinct from other members of the public.
 
(Complaint ¶¶18, 20.)
 
Effectively, Plaintiff claims Foothill Transit is
vicariously liable (Government Code section 815.2) because the Driver was
negligent by not stopping when it saw Plaintiff. 
 
It is well-established that Government Code section 815
subdivision (a) abolished common law tort liability against public entities.
(Demurrer p. 5, Miklosy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2008) 44 Cal.4th
876, 899.) Thus, to assert a negligence COA against a public entity, it must be
predicated upon a statute. (Gov. Code §815(a).) Additionally, general
allegations of negligence are insufficient and “to state a cause of action
against a public entity, every fact material to the existence of its statutory
liability must be pleaded with particularity.” Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid
Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal. 3rd 780, 795 (citations omitted).[2]

 
Here,
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendant Foothill Transit is
vicariously liable for the injuries and damages proximately caused by the
Driver’s negligence and failure because the Driver (employee) struck Plaintiff
despite him having the right of way (which is the how or the ultimate
facts illustrating the negligence).  
 
To the extent
that Foothill Transit argues it is unclear whether the Driver was an employee
of Foothill Transit or Keolis, as she cannot be an employee of both, a “court's function is limited to testing the legal
sufficiency of the complaint” such that “a demurrer is simply not the
appropriate procedure for determining the truth of disputed facts,” no
matter how improbable the facts. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 634.) 
 
To the extent
that Foothill Transit argues Gov. Code section 820.2 provides immunity since
the Driver exercised discretion (Demurrer p. 6), Foothill Transit has not
offered more to explain the applicability of the statute. In any event,
reaching the issue of whether the Driver appropriately exercised
discretion would involve an assessment of facts and evidence, which is improper
at this stage. (See Kastner v. Los Angeles Metropolitan Transit Authority (1965)
63 Cal.2d 385, 56-57 [“Whether defendant Neal,
in the circumstances related, exercised ordinary care in looking for
pedestrians or was negligent in failing to see the deceased was purely a
question of fact for the jury.”].) 
 
Lastly, to
the extent that Foothill Transit argues Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient
facts that Foothill Transit had the requisite knowledge to be put on notice of
the specific accident that is the basis of Plaintiff’s Complaint (Demurrer p.
6), the court, absent further elaboration, is uncertain as to the relevance of
this argument.[3] 
 
Therefore, the court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the 1st
COA for negligence. 
 
2.     Negligent Hiring/Retention/Supervision/Training
 
Under the doctrine of
respondent superior, an employer is vicariously liable for his employee's torts
committed within the scope of the employment. (CACI 3700.) An employer
may owe a duty of care in hiring and supervising its employees so as to avoid
exposing third persons to an unreasonable risk of harm: “An employer may be
liable to a third person for the employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining
an employee who is incompetent or unfit.” (Federico v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1210-1211.) Foreseeability of the harm is key. The
employer is not liable merely because its employee is incompetent, vicious or
careless. A duty of care to third persons arises only when a risk of harm to
such persons by the employee was reasonably foreseeable, i.e., only “when the
employer knows, or should know, facts which would warn a reasonable person that
the employee presents an undue risk of harm to third persons in light of the
particular work to be performed.” (Federico, supra, 59 Cal.App.4th at p.
1214; see also Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1055
[“cornerstone of a negligent hiring theory is the risk that the employee will
act in a certain way and the employee does act in that way”].) Accordingly, the
elements to establish a claim for vicarious liability can be summed up as
follows: (1) employer hired the employee, (2) employee was or became unfit or
incompetent, (3) employer knew or should have known that the employee
was/became unfit or incompetent, (4) as a result of said unfitness or
incompetence, a harm occurred, and (5) it was the employer’s hiring or
retention of that unfit or incompetent employee that was a substantial factor
in causing said harm. 
 
The pertinent allegations to
this COA are as follows:
 
Defendants knew of [the Driver’s] lack
of qualifications as a driver, and history of driving violations, which created
an unreasonable risk to foreseeable pedestrian. Plaintiff is informed and
believes and thereon alleges that despite this advance knowledge, these
Defendants failed to properly train, supervise, discipline, and manage the
risks of their employee to pedestrians.
 
(Complaint ¶¶28, 29.) 
 
In sum, Plaintiff alleges that
the Driver had a history of driving violations, Foothill Transit knew of the
Driver’s driving violations and lack of qualifications yet failed to supervise
the Driver. 
 
Here, however, while Plaintiff
may assert Defendant’s
liability is premised on the fact that it is a licensed public transit agency
and, under federal and state laws, has a mandatory duty to hire, retain,
supervise, and/or train transit bus operators in a manner specified by such
laws—citing to Vehicle Code § 1808.1; Education Code § 40083; Education Code §
40085.5—this was not alleged in the complaint. (See Melikian
v. Truck Ins. Exchange (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 113, 114 [“In approaching that issue we are bound, just as the
trial court was bound, by the allegations in the verified complaint and cannot
consider the outré-judicial statements of counsel nor the additional facts
found in the briefs.”].) Thus, as no statute has been alleged in the
complaint, the court need not address the statutes cited in opposition.[4] 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS
the demurrer as to the 2nd COA with leave to amend. 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part. 


