 Case Number:  24NNCV02088    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING Calendar:     11 Date:               12/20/2024   Case No:         24 NNCV02088 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Lin v. Dang, et al. DEMURRERMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center     Responding Party: Plaintiff Louting Lin       RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to First Amended Complaint    Strike punitive damages   CAUSES OF ACTION:  from First Amended (Form) Complaint   1) General Negligence 2) Intentional Tort 3) General Negligence SUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Luoting Lin alleges that in July of 2023 defendants Wendy Dang, Lonna Bennett, Arcadia Mental Health Center, Los Angeles General Medical Center and L.A. Downtown Medical Center were negligent, whereby plaintiff was harmed and suffered injuries and damages.  Plaintiff alleges that defendants Bennett and Dang at Arcadia Mental Health Center negligently reported that plaintiff had a plan to kill herself and placed her on an involuntary  psychiatric hold, negligently reporting false statements or opinions regarding plaintiff’s mental condition, and advising that if plaintiff wanted to receive sleeping medication, plaintiff could be sent to the emergency room.  Plaintiff alleges that Los Angeles County is responsible for the negligent hiring of Bennett and Dang, and that as a result of the conduct, plaintiff has suffered psychological trauma and severe emotional distress.  It is also alleged that defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center failed to provide plaintiff with a probable cause hearing before holding plaintiff for ten days, and that the staff at the facility were rude, used curse words, made threats to force plaintiff to take medication, and when plaintiff refused, forced plaintiff to take medication without consent, and transferred plaintiff to a psychiatric facility without providing an evaluation or asking any questions by a physician.  The file shows that on August 23, 2024, the court heard a demurrer brought by moving defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center to the original complaint.   The demurrer was sustained with leave to amend, as the form complaint failed to check boxes, and was otherwise uncertain.  Defendant Arcadia Mental Health Center also filed a demurrer to the original complaint, which was taken off calendar as moot due to the filing of the First Amended Complaint.   Defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center now files this demurrer and motion to strike in response to the First Amended Complaint.  ANALYSIS:DemurrerDefendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center demurs to the FAC, and each cause of action stated, on the ground that defendant is protected by the immunity of Welfare & Institutions Code section 5278. The argument is that plaintiff’s allegations openly admit that plaintiff was admitted to the facilities operated by the demurring defendant pursuant to an involuntary psychiatric hold under Welfare & Institutions Code section 5250, extending a previous 72-hour hold at a different facility pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code section 5150.  Defendant argues that probable cause for this hold was that the previous facility reported to defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center that plaintiff posed an imminent risk imminent risk to herself, and that even assuming this report was “negligent” on the part of the previous treater, as alleged, demurring defendant’s conduct was entirely lawful and immunized under the facts as pled.  Under Welfare & Institutions Code § 5150 (a): “(a) When a person, as a result of a mental health disorder, is a danger to others, or to  himself or herself, or gravely disabled, a peace officer, professional person in charge of a  facility designated by the county for evaluation and treatment, member of the attending  staff, as defined by regulation, of a facility designated by the county for evaluation and  treatment, designated members of a mobile crisis team, or professional person designated  by the county may, upon probable cause, take, or cause to be taken, the person into  custody for a period of up to 72 hours for assessment, evaluation, and crisis intervention,  or placement for evaluation and treatment in a facility designated by the county for  evaluation and treatment and approved by the State Department of Health Care Services.  At a minimum, assessment, as defined in Section 5150.4, and evaluation, as defined in  subdivision (a) of Section 5008, shall be conducted and provided on an ongoing basis.  Crisis intervention, as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 5008, may be provided  concurrently with assessment, evaluation, or any other service.” The allegations here suggest that plaintiff was detained on a 72-hour hold by defendant Arcadia Mental Health Center, which then transferred plaintiff to moving defendant facility L.A. Downtown Medical Center which held plaintiff for ten days.  [Complaint, para. GN-1, (1)].  Defendant relies on Welfare & Institutions Code § 5250, which provides, in pertinent part:“If a person is detained for 72 hours under the provisions of Article 1 (commencing with Section 5150), or under court order for evaluation pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 5200) or Article 3 (commencing with Section 5225) and has received an evaluation, he or she may be certified for not more than 14 days of intensive treatment related to the mental health disorder or impairment by chronic alcoholism, under the following conditions:(a) The professional staff of the agency or facility providing evaluation services has analyzed the person's condition and has found the person is, as a result of a mental health disorder or impairment by chronic alcoholism, a danger to others, or to himself or herself, or gravely disabled.(b) The facility providing intensive treatment is designated by the county to provide intensive treatment, and agrees to admit the person. No facility shall be designated to provide intensive treatment unless it complies with the certification review hearing required by this article. The procedures shall be described in the county Short-Doyle plan as required by Section 5651.3.(c) The person has been advised of the need for, but has not been willing or able to accept, treatment on a voluntary basis.”Defendant argues that the conduct alleged here, arising out of the detention pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code § 5250, is subject to the immunity provided under Welfare & Institutions Code § 5278.  Welfare & Institutions Code § 5278 provides: “Individuals authorized under this part to detain a person for 72-hour treatment and  evaluation pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 5150) or Article 2  (commencing with Section 5200), or to certify a person for intensive treatment pursuant  to Article 4 (commencing with Section 5250) or Article 4.5 (commencing with Section  5260) or Article 4.7 (commencing with Section 5270.10) or to file a petition for post- certification treatment for a person pursuant to Article 6 (commencing with Section 5300)  shall not be held either criminally or civilly liable for exercising this authority in  accordance with the law.” Defendant argues that the FAC here freely admits that defendant Arcadia Mental Health Center was the evaluating provider, while moving defendant was designated the provider of the intensive treatment plaintiff was deemed to need.  Therefore, even assuming the truth of the allegation that the finding of probable cause was negligent on the part of the evaluator, or no assessment was done, moving defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center, who is not the evaluator who engaged in any alleged negligence or was required to provide a probable cause determination, is subject to immunity.  It would appear that the allegations here, that the moving defendant failed to provide plaintiff with a probable cause hearing before holding her for ten days, would be subject to immunity, and that the allegation of failure to comply with the involuntary psychiatric hold procedures would apply only to the evaluator, not to the moving defendant.    Plaintiff in opposition argues that Welfare & Institutions Code section 5278 does not provide blanket immunity for defendants, but provides qualified immunity to individuals involved in the detention of a person for evaluation and treatment under sections 5150 and 5250, but only if the detention is done in good faith and in accordance with the law.   Plaintiff cites to Gonzalez v. Paradise Valley Hospital (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 735, in which the court of appeal reversed trial court orders granting summary judgments in favor of a doctor and hospital, where a patient held in a locked psychiatric unit for a 72 hour hold broke through a window and escaped, entered a nearby apartment, and grabbed a kitchen knife and cut his throat and abdomen.  Police arrived and ultimately shot the patient and inflicted mortal wounds.  The parents sued the hospital and the treating psychiatrist for professional malpractice. The trial court granted defendants’ motions for summary judgment on the ground of immunity under section 5278.  The court of appeal held that “section 5278 is inapplicable to actions for negligence stemming from acts or omissions in evaluation or treatment during 72-hour holds.”  Gonzalez, at 741.  The court of appeal found that since the allegations had been that the death was proximately caused by “defendants’ negligence during his detention,” specifically, the psychiatrist’s failure to appropriately treat the psychosis and the hospital’s failure to “adequately supervise and observe him and its provision of inadequate facilities,” and triable issues of facts regarding the negligence claims had been raised, the summary judgments were improper.  The court of appeal relied on its previous decision in Jacobs v. Grossmont Hospital (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 69, in which it had reversed the trial court’s granting of summary judgment in favor of a hospital, where a patient sued the hospital for professional negligence and premises liability where, during a 72-hour hold, the patient tripped and sustained injuries. The court conducted a detailed statutory evaluation and concluded:“the scope of section 5278 immunity extends to claims based on facts that are inherent in an involuntary detention pursuant to section 5150. If there is probable cause for the detention, the statute therefore provides immunity for the decision to detain as well as for the detention and its inherent attributes, including the fact that the patient must necessarily be evaluated and treated without consent. These are all inherent aspects of the statutory scheme and thus cannot provide the basis for a civil suit. However, the immunity does not extend to other negligent acts, intentional torts, or criminal wrongs committed during the course of the detention, evaluation, or treatment.” Jacobs, at 78-79.  The court of appeal in Jacobs discussed and limited its holding in the previous case of  Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1068.   The court of appeal set forth the facts and issues presented in Heater as follows: “In Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1075, the plaintiff, Heater, was placed on a 72-hour hold pursuant to section 5150. In accordance with doctors' orders, Heater was medicated because he was struggling and was highly agitated. ( Id. at p. 1076.) After his release, he sued the hospital and its staff for false imprisonment, assault and battery, and medical malpractice. The trial court ruled that the defendants were immune from liability under section 5278 and entered judgment for them on all causes of action. ( Heater, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1078.) On appeal, Heater asserted: (1) he was falsely imprisoned because he was admitted to the hospital without a doctor's order; (2) defendants committed a battery because he did not consent to having a tranquilizer administered to him; and (3) the immunity conferred by section 5278 does not apply to medical malpractice. ( Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1079.)  In affirming the judgment, this court held that the uncontradicted evidence demonstrated that Heater had been properly detained under section 5150, and thus no false imprisonment had occurred. ( Heater, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1081.) As to the battery, the court held that an involuntary detainee need not consent to administration of the type of medication Heater received.  The court also observed that, in any event, administering medication under the particular circumstances was within the scope of the immunity contemplated by section 5278. ( Heater, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1081–1083.) Finally, the court held that under the particular circumstances of the case, the immunity of section 5278 also applied to Heater's medical malpractice claim. The court reasoned: "[S]Section 5278's immunity extends to the detention of persons for 'treatment and evaluation.' (Italics added.) When read together with section 5152, which itself mandates treatment be provided to involuntary detainees, no other conclusion is possible than that section 5278 means precisely what it says it means, and that civil liability, whether for battery, for false imprisonment, or for medical malpractice is precluded insofar as the detention is 'in accordance with the law.' " ( Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1083.)Jacobs, at 76-77. The court of appeal then concluded that the holding should not be interpreted to bar professional negligence claims, but was limited by the facts presented in that action:“This court's holding in Heater should not be interpreted to mean that section 5278  immunizes from liability any act or omission that may occur during a lawfully initiated  72-hour hold under section 5150. Indeed, in Heater, the court expressly rejected the  hospital's argument that the statutory immunity conferred by section 5278 is absolute. (  Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1084.) The court  noted that one of the primary purposes of the LPS Act is " 'to protect mentally disordered  persons,' " (Ibid., quoting Michael E.L. v. County of San Diego (1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d  515, 525 [228 Cal. Rptr. 139]) and pointed out that interpreting the statute to confer  absolute immunity "would not protect, but would instead expose to the possibility of  abuse, the mentally disordered." ( Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center, supra, 42  Cal.App.4th at p. 1084.)   As with any case precedent, the language of Heater referring to the medical malpractice  claim must be construed with reference to the facts actually presented by the case, and the  positive authority of the court's decision is coextensive only with those facts. ( Trope v.  Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th 274, 284 [45 Cal. Rptr. 2d 241, 902 P.2d 259].) There is no  reference in Heater to the plaintiff having made any allegation that the medical treatment  he received during his involuntary commitment fell below the applicable standard of  professional care. Rather, Heater's medical malpractice claim was based solely on the fact  that he was detained involuntarily and treated without consent. Heater's claim of medical  malpractice was inextricably tied to his allegations that he had been wrongfully detained  by the  hospital without probable cause and medicated without his consent. (  Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1079–1083.)  Heater stands for the proposition that the immunity of section 5278 extends to claims  based on circumstances that are inherent in an involuntary detention pursuant to section  5150. Without the immunity provided by  section 5278, an involuntary detention and  treatment without consent would arguably constitute kidnapping, false imprisonment, or  battery. Section 5278 was intended to provide immunity for claims based on conduct that  is expressly authorized by the LPS Act but would otherwise constitute a civil or criminal  wrong. Under Heater, a plaintiff who is properly detained in accordance with the LPS Act  may not assert any civil claim based solely on the fact that he was detained, evaluated, or  treated without his consent.  However, Heater does not support an interpretation and application of section 5278 that  would confer blanket immunity for any act or omission that might occur during a 72-hour  hold, no matter how negligent, wrongful, or even criminal. For the same reason we  rejected absolute immunity in Heater, we reject such an expansive reading of the scope of  immunity provided by section 5278. We similarly reject Grossmont Hospital's invitation  to limit liability to "extreme or outrageous acts not rationally related to either a  therapeutic purpose or necessary to maintain the detainment for the required period."  Such a construction of the statute would subvert the intent of the LPS Act to protect the  mentally disordered by exposing them to the possibility of grossly negligent or                                                                                             intentional mistreatment, with no legal recourse. (Cf. Heater v. Southwood Psychiatric Center,  supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1084.) It would even insulate from liability some criminal  acts committed against the mentally disordered during the detention. As we noted in  Heater, section 5278 must be interpreted to avoid such absurd and extreme results. (  Heater, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1085.) We do not believe the Legislature intended to  deprive the mentally disordered of any legal recourse for any and all acts that might be  committed against them during the course of an involuntary detention.”            Jacobs, at 77-78, italics in original. Plaintiff argues that here defendants acted in bad faith by maliciously distorting plaintiff’s statements regarding religious perspectives on suicide to fabricate a reason for the 5150 hold, failing to conduct a proper evaluation of plaintiff’s mental health condition, violating the procedures required under Section 5150, and ignoring plaintiff’s cultural and language needs,  leading to miscommunication and further wrongdoing.  As to these arguments, any evaluation allegations would not apply to the moving defendant, who it is alleged received the patient based on an evaluation by another facility and its employees.  As to the allegations that plaintiff was medicated without consent, that would fall within the statutory immunity.  As to ignoring plaintiff’s cultural and language needs, this concern is not alleged in the pleadings.  Similarly, to the extent the opposition indicates that there was unprofessional behavior by nurses making inappropriate comments to plaintiff which could have pushed her toward harm, or that this defendant engaged in cultural discrimination against plaintiff, this is also not alleged in the current pleading. The demurrer accordingly is sustained with leave to amend. Defendant requests that the demurrer be sustained without leave to amend.  However, this is the first pleading to which a demurrer has been asserted based on the immunity argument, and it is not yet clear from the face of the pleading or the opposition that the pleading cannot be amended to state facts sufficient to overcome such an argument.  It would likely be considered  overly harsh to deny at least one further opportunity to amend under the circumstances.  Leave to amend is allowed. Motion to Strike Defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center seeks to strike the prayer for punitive damages.  Defendant argues that regardless of the ruling on the demurrer, the court should grant the motion to strike, enforcing the requirements of CCP section 425.13.  CCP § 425.13 provides, in pertinent part: “(a) In any action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.”   Such an order may be granted where plaintiff “has established there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.”   Id. This requirement applies not only to actions which are designated professional negligence actions, but to actions against a health care provider where the injuries alleged as the basis of the claim were caused by conduct that was “directly related to the rendition of the professional services provided by the healthcare provider.”  Central Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc.  v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 181, 191-192: “We hold that whenever an injured party seeks punitive damages for an injury that is directly related to the professional services provided by a health care provider acting in its capacity as such, then the action is one "arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider," and the party must comply with section 425.13(a).”Defendant argues that the allegations here fall within the Central Pathology definition as the allegations of wrongdoing here are directly related to the manner in which professional medical services were provided, so that an advance order of court must be obtained to seek punitive damages.  Defendant points out that the original complaint did not seek punitive damages.  The prayer for punitive damages accordingly appears to have been inserted into the FAC when it was beyond the scope of the amendment permitted.   In any case, the motion to strike is granted without leave to amend, but without prejudice to plaintiff filing a noticed motion under CCP § 425.13 procedures, if appropriate as the facts develop. RULING:Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND on the ground the causes of action against the moving defendant L.A. Downtown Medical Center appear subject to the immunity provided under Welfare & Institutions Code section 5278. Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, for failure to comply with CCP §425.13.   Motion is granted without leave to amend, but without prejudice to bringing a motion under CCP section 421.13, should one be appropriate. Ten days leave to amend. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in full compliance with CCP § 430.41 before any further demurrer may be filed.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 