 Case Number:  24NNCV03144    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING
 
Calendar:         13                                            
Date:               12/20/2024 
                                                                
Case
No:         24 NNCV03144                                                          Trial
Date:       None Set 
Case Name:     Avalon
Promenade Inc. v. Heislop, et al.       
 
DEMURRER
                                                                               
Moving Party:           
 Defendants David Heislop and Renne
Heislop      
Responding Party:       Plaintiff
Avalon Promenade, Inc.      
 
Pleading
filed on:     July
22, 2024                                         Demurrer
filed on:      Sept. 9, 2024
Pleading
served on:  August 23, 2024, posting                      within
 5 days?: okay    
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:         
             Sustain demurrer to complaint    
 
CAUSES OF ACTION:         from
(form) Complaint   
1)     
Unlawful Detainer 
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS:
            Plaintiff
Avalon Promenade Inc. alleges that it is the owner of premises in Burbank, and
that in September of 2019, defendants David Heislop and Renee Heislop agreed to
rent the premises pursuant to a written agreement with plaintiff agreeing to
pay rent of $3,760 payable monthly on the first of the month. 
 
The complaint alleges that defendants
were served with a 3-day notice to pay rent or quit on July 17, 2024, and
failed to comply with the requirements of the notice.  Plaintiff requests past due rent of
$36,931.89, reasonable attorney fees, forfeiture of the agreement, and damages
at the rate of $125.33 per day from August 1, 2024. 
 
This demurrer was originally heard
on October 18, 2024.  The court posted
its tentative ruling online and in the courtroom, and the minute order reflects
that counsel submitted on the tentative ruling, which was entered as the
ruling, as modified, to continue the matter to December 20, 2024 “to permit
plaintiff a reasonable time to effect reinstatement.” 
 
There has been no timely
supplemental paperwork submitted showing that plaintiff has in fact effected
reinstatement.   
 
ANALYSIS:
Defendants David Heislop and Renne
Heislop demur to the complaint on the ground plaintiff is a corporation which
has been declared in forfeiture by the Franchise Tax Board for failure to pay
California state taxes, so lacks the capacity to sue. 
 
CCP § 430.10 provides that a party
against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer on the ground
"(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have the legal capacity to
sue."
 
Under CCP § 430.30(a), an objection to a pleading may be
taken by a demurrer "[w]hen any ground for objection to a
complaint...appears on the face thereof, or from any matter of which the court
is required to or may take judicial notice…"  
 
Defendants
rely on Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App. 4th
1599, 1603-1604, in which the Second District noted that “[s]uspension of corporate
powers results in a lack of capacity to sue….” 
 

Defendants have filed a Request for
Judicial Notice attaching a Statement of Information from the California Secretary
of State indicating that on April 2, 2024, the status of plaintiff was changed
from “Active” to “Forfeited—FTB.”  [RFJN,
Ex. 1].   Under Revenue and Taxation Code
section 23302(c), where a taxpayer is suspended by the Franchise Tax Board, the
Board is required to transmit the name to the Secretary of State, at which
point the suspension becomes effective.  
The statute expressly provides, “The certificate of the Secretary of
State shall be prima facie evidence of the suspension or forfeiture.” 
 
Plaintiff does not dispute this
suspended status, but argued previously that plaintiff would  seek revivor, so that the proper remedy for
such a problem would be to continue the matter to permit plaintiff a reasonable
time to do so. 
 
As acknowledged in the moving
papers:
“‘The suspension of the corporate
powers, rights, and privileges means a suspended corporation cannot sue or
defend a lawsuit while its taxes remain unpaid. [Citation.] Once a suspended
corporation pays its taxes and obtains a certificate of revivor, however, the
corporation may be allowed to carry on the litigation.””
Travelers Property Casualty Co. of America v. Engel
Insulation, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 830, 834, quoting Kaufman
& Broad Communities, Inc. v. Performing Plastering, Inc. (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 212, 217-218. 
 
In Timberline, Inc. v.
Jaisinghani (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1361, the Second District reversed a
trial court’s order denying a motion to vacate a renewal of a judgment by a
suspended corporation.   The Second
District noted in that case, if a corporation’s suspended status only comes to
light during litigation, “the normal practice is for the trial court to permit
a short continuance to enable the suspended corporation to effect reinstatement….”
 Timberline, at 1366.  The Second District emphasized that the purpose
of the then applicable Revenue and Tax Code suspension provision was to put
pressure on corporations to pay taxes, and that this purpose is satisfied where
tax delinquencies, once corrected, are treated as irregularities, with no
further penalties.   Timberline,
at 1366; see also, Schwartz v. Magyar House, Inc. (1959, 2nd
Dist.) 168 Cal.App.2d 182, 190.  
 
Here, plaintiff has been permitted
an additional two months since the prior hearing to reinstate its corporate
status.  Defendant evidently has failed
to do so and has failed to offer to pay the back taxes, or update the court as
to the status or request further time to pursue the matter.   The court accordingly now sustains the
demurrer without leave to amend.   
 
RULING:
Defendants
David and Renee Heislop’s Demurrer to Complaint for Unlawful Detainer was
continued to this date to permit plaintiff, a suspended corporation, time to
effect a reinstatement.  Plaintiff Avalon
Promenade Inc. has failed to submit any further papers to the Court, so has
evidently failed to effect reinstatement, and has failed to update the court to
assure it reinstatement is being pursued in good faith or to request a further
continuance.  The demurrer is accordingly
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   
 
Defendants
David and Renee Heislop’s UNOPPOSED Request for Judicial Notice in Support of
Defendants’ Demurrer is GRANTED.  

 

 
 DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 
 