 Case Number:  24NNCV02087    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  D 
                                  TENTATIVE
RULING
 
 
    MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO                                      DISCOVERY
(2)
Calendar:         10                                            
Date:               12/20/2024
                                         
Case No:         24 NNCV02087                                 Trial
Date:   None Set 
Case Name:     Mageno
v. Lokal, Inc.
            
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Perla Mageno   
Responding
Party:       Defendant Lokal, Inc.    (No Opposition) 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Number One,
Interrogatories Nos. 15.1 and 17.1. y 17.1 
Further Responses to Request for Admissions, Set Number One,
RFAs Nos. 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 29, 30
and 31  

 
 
CHRONOLOGY
Date
Discovery served :                                                          August
5, 2024
Date
Responses served:                                                          September
6, 2024
Extensions
to Further Respond to:                                         October
19, 2024        
Date
Motion served:                                                               October 30, 2024  ext.  timely    



Meet
and Confer?                                                                   Ok, Para. 4 Ex. C  
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND: 
Plaintiff Perla Mageno alleges that
plaintiff is a visually impaired and legally blind person who requires
screen-reading software to read website content using a computer, and that she
has visited the website offered by defendant Lokal, Inc. ,www.lokalsandwichshop.com,
and that during visits to defendant’s website, using plaintiff’s screen-reader,
plaintiff encountered multiple accessibility barriers which denied plaintiff
full and equal access to the facilities, goods and services offered to the
public and made available to the public on defendant’s website.  The complaint alleges a cause of action for
violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, Civil Code § 51, et seq.
 
ANALYSIS:
Interrogatories 
Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party
may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to
the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is
itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  The
section specifically provides that “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,”
and that discovery may be obtained “of the identity and location of persons
having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence,
description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document,
electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”
 
CCP § 2030.300(a) provides that if
the party propounding interrogatories deems that an objection “is without merit
or too general” or that “an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete”,  “the propounding party may
move for an order compelling a further response...”
 
If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or
failure to fully respond to discovery.  Coy
v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.  The granting or denial of a motion to compel
is in the discretion of the trial court. 
Coy, at 221-222.   A court
should generally consider the following factors:
The relationship of the information
sought to the issues framed in the pleadings;
The likelihood that disclosure will
be of practical benefit to the party seeking discovery;
The burden or expense likely to be
encountered by the responding party in furnishing the information sought.
Columbia Broadcast System, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19.
 
Form Interrogatory No. 15.1
The motion seeks further responses
to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1, which requests that the responding party
identify each material allegation and affirmative defense in its pleading and
for each state the facts, witnesses, and documents supporting the allegation or
defense.  
 
            The
response is:
“Plaintiff had no genuine intent to
patronize Defendant’s business. Plaintiff’s “tester” activities do not confer
standing. Plaintiff had the ability to review the menu selection on Defendant’s
website and to place an order on the date(s) of the incident. Plaintiff has
therefore suffered no difficulty or discomfort. In addition, Plaintiff had no
intention to return to the business and consequently, no standing to demand
injunctive relief. Plaintiff has filed over 1,000 cases; committed to returning
to each of the businesses she has sued to patronize and has failed to do so.
She continues to file lawsuits knowing full well that she does not return to
these businesses to patronize.”
 
            Plaintiff
argues that defendant has filed an answer here generally and specifically
denying every allegation of plaintiff’s complaint, and asserting twenty-nine
affirmative defenses.  Plaintiff argues
that the interrogatory requires defendant to state all facts upon which
defendant bases its denial in its answer and affirmative defenses, and the
response is evasive and fails to respond to all subsections, including those
calling for identification of persons with knowledge of facts, and documents in
support of denials and affirmative defenses. 

 
This interrogatory is a straightforward
contention interrogatory.  As noted
above, “discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking
discovery or of any other party…”   CCP
section. 2017.010. 
            
CCP sec. 2030 .010(a) specifically
permits the propounding of contention interrogatories:
“An interrogatory may relate to
whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts,
witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based.   An interrogatory is not objectionable
because an answer to it involves an opinion or a contention that relates to
fact or the application of law to facts, or would be based on information
obtained or legal theories developed in anticipation of litigation.” 
 
This interrogatory is an approved
Judicial Council form interrogatory.    
 
            The
response is clearly incomplete, and does not respond to each subsection of the
interrogatory. 
 
The response is also not Code
compliant.  CCP § 2030.210 provides, in
pertinent part:
“(a) The party to whom
interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath
separately to each interrogatory by any of the following:
(1) An answer containing the
information sought to be discovered.
(2) An exercise of the party's
option to produce writings.
(3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.”
 
Under CCP § 2030.220:
“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories
shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits.
(b) If an interrogatory cannot be
answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.
(c) If the responding party does
not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory,
that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations,
except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
 
            Defendant is
ordered to fully comply with the Code. 
 
            Defendant
has failed to file timely written opposition to this motion, so has failed to
meet its burden of justifying its failure to fully comply.  A further complete Code-compliant response
which responds to each subsection with respect to each denial and affirmative
defense will be ordered to be served. 
 
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
            Form
Interrogatory 17.1 requests that for each request for admission which is not an
unqualified admission, the responding party state the number of the request,
the facts upon which the response is based, and the persons who have knowledge
of those facts, and identify all documents and tangible things supporting the
response, along with information concerning any person who has the document or
thing. 
 
            The
response states:
“(a) 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 
(b) Plaintiff had no genuine intent
to patronize Defendant’s business. Plaintiff’s “tester” activities does not
confer standing. Plaintiff’s disability is unrelated to the deviations from the
ADA Standards, as alleged in the operative Complaint. Plaintiff has therefore
suffered no difficulty or discomfort. Plaintiff has no intention to return and
consequently, no standing to demand injunctive relief. 
(c) Leni Kumalasari, who can be
reached through this office. 
(d) Objection: duplicative. See
document production served concurrently.”
 
The RFAs at issue request that
defendant admit matters such as that persons who are visually impaired were
denied goods and services on the website, that the website is not as accessible
to visually-impaired users as persons without such impairment, that there were
barriers on the website, that the website does not comply with web content
accessibility standards in various respects, and that certain methods were or
were not used in testing the website.   
 
As plaintiff argues, the response
does not state any facts related to the subject requests for admissions.  Plaintiff also argues that the response to
subsection (d) is insufficient as no documents were identified or produced in
response to requests for production. 
 
It is not an acceptable response to
discovery to direct the propounding party to other discovery responses.   A party is entitled in discovery to seek the
same information through different discovery devices. See Coy v. Superior
Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 218; see also Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978, 2nd
Dist..) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783-784 (“it is not proper to answer [an
interrogatory] by stating ‘See my deposition,’ ‘See my pleading,’ or ‘See the
financial statement.’”).    
 
The interrogatory is
straightforward, and a further response which responds with respect to each of
the listed requests for admissions with facts, witnesses and documents
pertinent to that request are ordered to be served.  Such responses must be fully Code-compliant,
and may not refer to other discovery responses.  
 
Requests for Admissions
Under CCP
Section 2033.290:
“(a)
On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply:
(1)
An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete.
(2)
An objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.”  

Under CCP
§ 2033.220(b):
“(b) Each answer shall:

 (1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the request as is
true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly
qualified by the responding party.

(2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is
untrue.

 (3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as
to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient information or
knowledge.”
 
Specifically, section 2033.220,
subdivision (c) provides:
“If a responding party gives lack
of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure
to admit all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state in the
answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular
request has been made, and that the information readily known or readily
obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.” 
 
            The Requests here seek admissions
such as that the website does not comply with certain aspects of the web
content accessibility guidelines, that altering the website to comply would not
result in undue burden, that the coding has been changed, and that the testing
of the website was done in a certain fashion. 
 
            The responses are some combination
of objections that the request is overly broad, vague and ambiguous, calls for
the testimony of an expert, or cannot be admitted or denied because it is
incomprehensible.   
 
            Again, defendant has failed to file
timely opposition, so has not met its burden to justify any of these
objections, or failure to respond.  
 
            Because the statutory language concerning requests for
admissions is so broad and permits the qualification of response by a
responding party, it is held that it not proper ground for objection
that a request for admission is vague or “ambiguous,” unless it is so ambiguous
that the responding party cannot in good faith make an intelligent reply.  See Cembrook v. Superior Court (1961)
56 Cal.2d 423, 428-430.  

 
            Such objections
are not appropriate here, and it also does not appear to be appropriate to
object that response to the requests are best reserved for an expert.  As argued by plaintiff, the requests do not
require an expert to answer, and, in any case, it is held improper to deny a
request where the information is known to the party’s expert witness.  Chodos v. Superior Court (1963, 2nd
Dist.) 215 Cal.App.2d 318, 323-324 (finding improper objections to requests for
admissions that the parties had no “independent information” or called for “an
opinion”), Bloxham v. Saldinger (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 729,
752 (“Since requests for admissions are not limited to matters within personal
knowledge of the responding party, that party has a duty to make a reasonable
investigation of the facts before answering items which do not fall within his
personal knowledge,” quoting Chodos, at 322.).   
 
            Further
responses to each of the subject requests for admissions is ordered to be
served, without objections, and which admit or deny each request according to
Code. 
 
  Sanctions 
            Moving
party seeks sanctions. 
 
CCP § 2030.300 (d) provides that the court “shall impose a
monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Similar provisions apply to motions
for further responses to requests for admissions.  CCP § 2033.290 (d).
  
Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the
discovery process includes “(e) Making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery”; and “(f) Making an evasive response to
discovery.”    Where there has been
misuse of the discovery process, under Section 2023.030(a),  the court “may impose a monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  
 
The burden is on the party subject
to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young &
Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436. 
 
Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): 
“The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.”
 
In this
case, defendant has made evasive responses to discovery, interposed objections defendant
has failed to justify, and has made these motions necessary. 
 
The court
will award sanctions in favor of the moving party.  The sanctions sought are $1,000.00 for
each of the two motions.  It appears that
time is sought only for preparation of the motions; no time to attend the
hearing or prepare replies is claimed. 
The request appears reasonable and there is no opposition so no
challenge to the sum of sanctions sought. 
The sanctions are awarded in full as requested. 
 
RULING:
[No Opposition]
Plaintiff’s UNOPPOSED Motion to
Compel Defendant Lokal, Inc.’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories Set
Number One is GRANTED. 
Defendant Lokal, Inc. is ordered
to serve further verified responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1 and Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1, which provide information as to each denial and
affirmative defense, and each identified Request for Admission, and which
separately respond to each subsection of those interrogatories.  
The further responses must provide all information
requested.  All further responses are to
fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under
CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be
discovered.”  The responding party must
also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220:
“(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.
(b) If an interrogatory cannot be
answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.
(c) If the responding party does not
have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that
party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations,
except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
The Court does not find acceptable a
response to discovery which refers to other discovery responses.  The Court also notes that any further
responses must be without objection, as objections have not been asserted and
so have been waived. 
 
Further responses
to be served within ten days.  

 
Monetary sanctions requested by
moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the
circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of
attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with
the pending motion is $1,000
( 2 hours @ $500/hour)
[2 hours requested] [Amount Requested $1,000.00], which sum is to be awarded in
favor of plaintiff Perla Mageno, and against defendant Lokal, Inc. and defendant’s
counsel of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days. CCP §§
2030.300(d), 2023.010 (e) and (f), and 2023.030(a).

 
 
Plaintiff’s UNOPPOSED Motion to
Compel Defendant Lokal, Inc.’s Further Responses to Requests for Admission, Set
Number One is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant Lokal, Inc. is ordered
to serve further complete verified responses to Requests Nos. 13, 14, 15, 19,
20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 29, 30 and 31, which provide all information requested, and
which fully comply with the Code as to the subject discovery.  The Court has considered the asserted
objections and finds they are without merit, and that defendant has failed to
justify them, and therefore overrules all objections, so that further responses
are to be served without objections. 
 
Further responses to be served
within ten days. 
 
Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a
lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court
finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,000
(2 hours @ $500/hour) [2 hours requested] [Amount Requested
$1,000.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Perla Mageno, and
against defendant Lokal, Inc. and defendant’s counsel of record, jointly and
severally, payable within 30 days. CCP §§ 2033.290(d), 2023.010 (e) and (f),
and 2023.030(a).
 
 
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
              
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 