 Case Number:  24NNCV00781    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:         8 Date:          12/20/2024  Case No:     24 NNCV00781  Trial Date: 08/17/2026 Case Name: McShea, et al. v. Horton, et al.MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DOCUMENT REQUESTS Moving Party:  Plaintiff Brian McShea     Responding Party: Defendant Derek Horton   RELIEF REQUESTED:Verified response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served :     August 25, 2024 Extension to Respond to: October 10, 2024 (Ex. 3)Date Responses served:  NO RESPONSES SERVED Date Motion served:     October 29, 2024    Timely ANALYSIS:Under CCP § 2031.300, “if a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it,” that party “waives any objection to the demand,  including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “the party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” In this case, document demands have been directed to defendant and defendant failed to serve properly verified responses.  Defendant in the opposition indicates that defendant served proper verification to the subject discovery on November 14, 2024, after the filing of this motion on October 29, 2024.    Proof of service along with a copy of the verification is submitted. [Rabago Decl., para. 8, Ex. B].  The motion is accordingly moot. SanctionsThis leaves the issue of sanctions, which are sought by moving party.  With respect to document demands, under CCP section 2031.300(c), “the court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling…” CCP § 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where there has been such conduct, under CCP § 2023.030(a), “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct....If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP § 2023.030(a).  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a):“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  In this case, defendant failed to properly respond to an authorized method of discovery and made the motion necessary.  Plaintiff has submitted evidence showing that plaintiff has incurred expenses as a result of the conduct. The opposition argues that the sanctions requested should be denied because the notice is procedurally flawed, as it does not include the total amount of sanctions requested.  CCP section 2023.040 provides, in pertinent part:“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.”The opposition argues that there is no mention of sanctions in the notice of motion and no designation of the amount sought.  This assertion is not correct; the notice states that plaintiff “will further move this court for an order requiring Defendant and/or Defendant’s counsel…to pay a monetary sanction to Plaintiff.”  [Motion, p. 2].  This notice sufficiently specifies the “type” of sanction sought, i.e., “monetary.”  There is no statutory requirement that the sum being sought be identified in the notice.  The statute requires that a request for sanctions be “accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.”  CCP section 2023.040.  This task was done here.  [See Liebrech Decl., paras. 9, 10].  Sanctions are not denied based on this procedural argument.The opposition also argues that sanctions should be denied because plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith.  The motion is for responses to discovery, for which there is no requirement to meet and confer at all.  Defendant has pointed to no statutory authority requiring a meet and confer in such a circumstance, and the argument repeatedly concedes that defendant was aware of deadlines and failed to seek court intervention or a protective order if such was necessary due to the volume of the discovery or reassignment to a new attorney within the same firm.   Sanctions are not denied for failure to meet and confer. The opposition argues that defendant was substantially justified in responding to the requests, and in actually serving proper verification after the motion was filed.   The sanctions are awarded to shift the expense of preparing the motion which defendant’s conduct made necessary. Defendant also argues that the sanctions should be denied because they are unreasonable in amount.  The court does not find this a valid argument for denying sanctions altogether in this case, but will consider the argument in determining what reasonable amount should be awarded. The sanctions requested are $1,810.00.  As pointed out in the opposition, these fees appear high for a motion of this nature, particularly at the $500 per hour billing rate.  The motion is quite brief, and is similar to motions previously heard seeking initial discovery responses, for which sanctions have been previously awarded.  One hour is sought for reviewing opposition and preparing a reply, but since the opposition indicates the motion is substantively moot, any time to prepare a reply should be minimal.  The fees awarded will be adjusted accordingly, as follows: 2.5 hours attorney time for a total of $1,250.00 in attorney fees.   RULING:Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (1) is MOOT in light of the service of verified responses to the subject discovery by defendant Derek Horton on November 18, 2024.  Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,250.00 (2.5 hours @ $500/hour) (3.5 hours requested) plus filing fees of $60.00 [Amount Requested $1,810.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Brian McShea, and against defendant Derek Horton, and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 