 Case Number:  24NNCV04337    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  D Tentative ruling
 
Calendar:         15                                            
Date:                12/20/2024                                                                 
Case
No:          24 NNCV04337                                             Trial
Date:       None Set 
Case Name:     Armstrong
v. The State of California, et al.   
 
DEMURRER
                                                                               
Moving Party:           
 Defendant State of California       
Responding Party:       Plaintiff
Brian W. Armstrong     
 
 
Meet
and Confer?      Yes 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:         
             Sustain demurrer to complaint 
 
CAUSES OF ACTION:         from
Complaint   
1)     
Failure to Do Due Diligence 
2)     
Failure of Obligation to Act 
3)     
Failure to Protect Plaintiff 
4)     
Failure to Protect Public 
5)     
Failure to Communicate 
6)     
Negligence
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS:
            Plaintiff
Brian W. Armstrong alleges that in September of 2022 plaintiff was assaulted
inside the Blue Moon Lounge in Glendale by a large group of adult males which
caused substantial and ongoing physical and emotional damage to plaintiff.  The complaint alleges that from September 19
through 26, 2022 Detective Ian Torley of the Glendale Police Department was
negligent and failed to live up to his obligation to perform a detailed and
thorough investigation into the brutal assault, failing to produce a detailed
and concise investigative report, and failing to file a report with the Los
Angeles District Attorney’s Office (D.A.) in a timely manner, and to follow up
to notify and explain his actions and the D.A.’s decision to plaintiff. 
 
The complaint alleges that the
D.A.’s office rejected the assault case filed by Detective Torley within less
than 24 hours, and that plaintiff was not notified of the decision until July
of 2024, ten months after the decision was handed down. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that assuming
that Detective Torley filed a detailed report, then defendant D.A. Office was
negligent in failing to file criminal charges against the business and all
named defendants in plaintiff’s civil case, and is also responsible for
neglecting to notify plaintiff and his attorney in a timely manner about the
decision it made.  
 
It is also alleged that defendants the
City of Glendale, County of Los Angeles, and State of California are
responsible for failure and neglect to live up to their obligations to do due
diligence to protect one of their citizens from a vicious assault and for
failing to recommend prosecuting the assailants who committed this violent act
within the City, County, and State limits. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
Defendant State of California
(State) demurs to the entire complaint on the ground the court has no
jurisdiction over the State of California because plaintiff does not plead
compliance with Government Code section 945.4 or any other provision of the
Government Claims Act, and that the pleading fails to state a cause of action
against the State and is uncertain. 
 
Under Government Code sections
section 905 and 945.5, no suit for money damages may be brought against a
public entity until a written claim has been presented and been acted on or
deemed to be rejected.  
 
Under Government Code 945.4:
            “Except as
provided in Sections 946.4 and 946.6, no suit for money or damages may be    brought against a public entity on a cause of
action for which a claim is required to be        presented
in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2        (commencing with Section 910) of Part 3
of this division until a written claim therefor             has been presented to the public entity and has been
acted upon by the board, or has been           deemed
to have been rejected by the board, in accordance with Chapters 1 and 2 of Part
3          of this division.”
 
            Under Dilts
v Cantua Elementary School District (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 27, “the
plaintiff must allege compliance with or circumstances excusing compliance, or
the complaint is subject to general demurrer.”
 
Defendant State argues that
plaintiff’s claim here is required to be presented pursuant to a written claim,
and that a search of the State’s Department of General Services has no record
of a government claim submitted by plaintiff Armstrong.   [Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 4, Ramos
Decl.].   
 
This method of proceeding is
supported by Fowler v. Howell (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1746, in
which the Second District affirmed the trial court’s granting of a motion for
judgment on the pleadings in a malicious prosecution action brought by a public
employee against a coworker who had accused the employee of sexual harassment
and rude behavior.  The court found the
action barred by the Tort Claims Act, as the employee had failed to file a
claim under the Torts Claims Act.   There
was no allegation in that action that the employee had in fact filed such a
claim, the argument was that he was not required to do so.  The Second District noted that the trial
court as well as the appellate court had in fact taken judicial notice of the
records of the public entity, in that case, the State Board of Control:
“The
trial court also took judicial notice that the records of the State Board of
Control do not contain a claim filed by Fowler concerning Howell's allegedly
false accusations. (A state employee familiar with the records of the Board of
Control searched the records and so declared.) We likewise take judicial notice
of these records. ( Evid. Code, §
452, subd. (c), 459.)”
Fowler, at 1752-1753. 
 
Here, the complaint alleges:
“Payment in the amount of 10
million dollars ($10,000,000.00) total was Requested by Plaintiff to ALL
Defendants in his "NOTICE OF INTENT TO SUE" letter which was legally
served upon each of the Defendants on or about September 4, 2024 in an attempt
to SETTLE THE ISSUE prior to any Civil Action taking place in a Court of Law,
thus saving the City, County, State and Court untold amounts of time and money.
(Proof of Service of Plaintiff's initial "NOTICE OF INTENT TO SUE"
will be presented as a future exhibit.)”
[Complaint, p. 8]. 
 
            It is not
clear that this letter constituted a government claim, or was timely, and it is
not attached to the pleading to permit the parties and court to confirm that it
complies with the Government Claims Act. The opposition does not address this
argument. The demurrer accordingly is sustained with leave to amend to permit
plaintiff to more clearly allege compliance with the Government Claims Act as
to the moving defendant, and to attach as an exhibit to the complaint any
alleged written claim. 
 
            Defendant
also argues that the complaint includes no facts showing the State had any role
in the underlying incident at the Blue Moon Lounge, but alleges that the State
should have performed “due diligence,” though the object of the State’s inquiry
is unclear.   
 
            The
language of the allegations against the State are as follows:
“The State of California is
responsible for it's [sic] failure and neglect to live up to it's [sic] obligation
to do due diligence to protect one of it's [sic] Citizens from a vicious
assault and for failing to recommend prosecuting the assailants who committed
this violent act within the limits of the State of California, inside an
establishment licensed by the State to do business in a manner in which it's
[sic] patrons 'shall not' be harmed in any manner in which the establishment
has reasonable control over. The State of California failed to ensure the
safety of the Plaintiff, a 66 year resident and tax payer of the State in this
case.”
[Complaint, pp. 5-6, para. 5].
 
It is not clear what the basis is for plaintiff’s allegation
that the State had an obligation to do due diligence, and, as pointed out in
the demurrer, since the State is a public entity, any liability must be based
on statute.
 
Government Code § 815 provides:
“Except as otherwise provided by
statute:
(a) A public entity is not liable
for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the
public entity or a public employee or any other person.”
 
            The
pleading here does set forth Government Code section 815.2 (a), under which a
public entity may be liable for an act or omission of an employee “if the act
or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of
action against that employee…”  and
section 815.6, under which liability may arise “Where a public entity is under
a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment…” 
[Complaint, pp. 11, 12].  
However, it is not clear what conduct of a State employee would have
given rise to what cause of action, or what mandatory duty imposed by enactment
is relied upon.  The demurrer is
sustained on this ground as well. 
 
            Defendant
points out that the complaint, although listing several, apparently separate
causes of action in the caption, does not set out in the body of the pleading
any specific causes of action and does not comply with the California Rules of
Court with respect to identifying specifics, particularly against which of
multiple defendants a claim is being made. 
 
            CRC Rule 2.112
requires:
“Each separately stated cause of
action, count or defense must specifically state:
(1) Its number (e.g. “first cause
of action”); 
(2) Its nature (e.g., “for fraud”);

(3) The party asserting it, if more
than one party is represented in the pleading (e.g. “by plaintiff Jones’); and 
(4) The party or parties to whom it
is directed (e.g., “against defendant Smith”).
 
The complaint fails to comply with
this rule, as a result of which it is difficult to ascertain what recognized
cause of action is being alleged against each of the named defendants.  Plaintiff on amendment must fully comply with
this rule. 
 
            Defendant
argues that the demurrer should be sustained without leave to amend.  However, this is the original complaint in
this matter, and it is
held that in the case of an original complaint, plaintiff need not even request
leave to amend: “unless [an original complaint] shows on its face that it is
incapable of amendment, denial of leave to amend constituted an abuse of
discretion, irrespective of whether leave to amend is requested or not.”  King v. Mortimer (1948) 83 Cal.App.2d
153, 158, citations omitted.  The court
of appeal in King cited to CCP section 472c, which provides, in
pertinent part, “the question as to whether or not such court abused its
discretion in making such an order is open on appeal even though no request to
amend such pleading was made.”    
 
This complaint is plaintiff’s first
attempt to state a claim, and it is not yet clear from the face of the
complaint that it cannot be amended to state a cause of action against the
moving defendant.  The demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
RULING:
State of California’ Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND for the reasons
stated in the moving papers. 
Plaintiff has failed
to sufficiently allege timely and appropriate compliance with the applicable
claims statute, or that plaintiff is excused from such compliance.  Any amended pleading should attach as exhibits
all documentation alleged to constitute writings complying with the claims
statute.  The pleading also does not
sufficiently allege a recognized duty on the part of moving defendant the State
of California, or a statutory basis for the duty allegedly breached.  The pleading also fails to comply with CRC
Rule 2.112, creating uncertainty, as each cause of action listed in the caption
is not separately alleged, and it is not alleged the nature of each cause of
action, and against which defendant each cause of action is alleged.  Plaintiff on amendment must fully comply with
CRC Rule 2.112.  
 
Ten days leave to amend, if possible. 
 
State of California’s UNOPPOSED Request for Judicial Notice
Supporting Demurrer to Complaint is GRANTED. 

 
The parties are ordered to meet and confer in full
compliance with CCP § 430.41 before any further demurrer may be filed. 
 
 

 
 DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 
 