 Case Number:  23GDCV00207    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  6 Date: 12/20/2024 Case No:  23 GDCV00207    Trial Date: February 24, 2025 Case Name: Stovell v. KIA America, Inc. MOTION TO COMPEL INSPECTION OF VEHICLEMoving Party:  Defendant Kia America, Inc.     Responding Party: Plaintiffs Davin Lamont Stovell and Roshaun Carlisle Stovell       RELIEF REQUESTED:Order compelling Plaintiffs to produce the subject vehicle for inspection  DECLARATION SUPPORTING MOTION:Reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally:  Yes, Ex. AFACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiffs Davin Lamont Stovell and Roshaun Carlise Stovell allege that in July of 2020, plaintiffs purchased a 2021 Kia Telluride, with an accompanying written warranty from defendant Kia America Inc., pursuant to which Kia America, Inc. agreed to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance. Plaintiffs allege that the vehicle was delivered to plaintiffs with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty, and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty, including the vehicle’s structural, electrical, engine and emission system defects.     Plaintiffs allege that the defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the express warranty period, and substantially impair the use, value, or safety of the vehicle.  Plaintiffs delivered the vehicle to manufacturer’s authorized repair facility for repair of the nonconformities, and defendant has been unable to conform plaintiff’s vehicle to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of repair attempts.  The complaint alleges that notwithstanding plaintiffs’ entitlement, defendant has failed to either promptly replace the new motor vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.  The complaint alleges three causes of action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for Breach of Express Warranty, Breach of Implied Warranty, and Civil Code section 1793.2.ANALYSIS:Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc. seeks by this motion to compel plaintiffs to permit inspection of the subject vehicle on a date certain. With respect to a vehicle inspection, under CCP section 2031.010, “[a]ny party may obtain discovery… by inspecting, testing, or sampling…tangible things,…or other property…in the possession, custody or control of any other party to the action.”  Relief is sought under CCP section 2031.310, which provides that a party demanding inspection, testing, or sampling “may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.(3) An objection to the response is without merit or too general.” Here, defendant Kia served a Demand for Vehicle Inspection to Plaintiff after confirming an agreeable date with plaintiffs’ counsel for the inspection of August 5, 2024.  [Villanueva Decl., paras. 2, 3, Exs. A, B].  Evidently, no objection to the demand was served.   Plaintiffs then failed to appear for depositions, and defendant needed to reschedule the vehicle inspection for a date after the depositions, and sent numerous emails to counsel for plaintiffs to reschedule the vehicle inspection, to which counsel did not respond.  [Villanueva Decl., paras. 4-6, Ex. A].  Defendant has established that plaintiffs have failed to produce the vehicle for inspection, and that the vehicle inspection is necessary so that defendant can evaluate this matter and defend the case in a meaningful way. [Villanueva Decl., paras. 7, 8].  Plaintiffs in opposition argue that the motion is moot, as plaintiffs’ counsel has provided January 13, 2025 as the date for the vehicle inspection to take place.    Specifically, plaintiffs submit evidence that since the filing of this motion on September 10, 2024, plaintiffs were deposed on September 19, 2024, and on December 6, 2024, plaintiffs’ counsel proposed the January date.  [Gopstein Decl. ¶¶  6, 9, Ex. 1].     The motion accordingly appears to be moot in principle, although since the inspection has not yet been conducted, in an abundance of caution, the court will order the vehicle inspection to go forward on the date selected by the parties, at the concession of plaintiffs in the opposition.   Specifically, it is concerning that a date was not offered until only a few days before opposition to the motion was due, and defendant may reasonably be concerned that such an offer is not sufficient to ensure that plaintiffs will actually produce the vehicle for inspection without a court order.  The court orders the inspection to proceed on a date certain.  The court also notes that this matter remains subject to the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order) applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale Courthouse, Department D.   The parties are reminded that the Order expressly provides with  respect to vehicle inspections: “Vehicle Inspection:  Within the time limits allowed by law, the subject vehicle may be inspected by the parties at a mutual agreeable time and place.  Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the vehicle inspection (VI) process shall be as follows:a. Defendant shall show plaintiff’s representative proof of insurance for the person/company who will be road testing the subject vehicle;b. The defense VI shall commence at 8:00 a.m. at an authorized service and repair facility closest to plaintiff’s residence, and may continue until no later than 5:00 p.m. that same day;c. Plaintiff shall deliver the vehicle to the noticed place of inspection.  If the subject vehicle has a dead battery, plaintiff’s counsel shall notify defendant’s counsel at least one court day before the VI, and the VI shall proceed with defendant paying for the tow or jump start to the place of inspection and taking reasonable steps to retrieve stored diagnostic codes and other onboard data before the battery is recharged or replaced.d. Defendant shall provide plaintiff’s representative with duplicate copies of all paper and electronic documents created during and because of the VI, such as test results, the stored codes in the vehicle’s internal network or in its control units, alignment sheets, etc.;e. If the subject vehicle is in then-current use by plaintiff, and if requested within a reasonable time, in writing, prior to the VI, plaintiff shall be provided a loaner or rental vehicle paid for by defendant for the duration of the VI, conditioned on plaintiff providing standard rental car disclosures such as proof of a current driver’s license and insurance coverage, and with plaintiff responsible for the loaner vehicle’s fuel.  The loaner vehicle need not be the same model or type as the subject vehicle unless plaintiff agrees to pay for an upgrade;f. Defendant shall be permitted to run tests of relevant electronic control units (ECUs) and components, conditioned on defendant maintaining, downloading, or printing out stored date on the existing condition or historical information stored in an ECU; andg. Plaintiff’s representative is permitted to conduct video and audio recording of the VI.”[Order section (5)(a)-(g)]. The parties are ordered to conduct the subject inspection on the agreed upon date, and in full compliance with the Discovery Act and the applicable provisions of the Order.  RULING:Motion to Compel Inspection of Plaintiffs’ Vehicle is GRANTED, at the concession of plaintiffs in the opposition. Plaintiffs Davin Lamont Stovell and Roshaun Carlise Stovel are ordered to permit inspection of the subject vehicle on January 13, 2024.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 