 Case Number:  23AHCV02076    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



BERNADETTE GALINDO, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PASADENA
   HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION, LTD.,
  et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02076
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT HUNTINGTON HEALTH’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST
   AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 31,
   2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          On
September 8, 2023, plaintiffs Bernadette Galindo, individually and as successor
in interest to Arthur Galindo (“Galindo”), and Amalia Galindo (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed this complaint against defendants Daryl Banta, M.D. (“Dr. Banta”) and
Huntington Health (erroneously sued as “Pasadena Hospital Association, Ltd.”). 
          After
the Court sustained Huntington Health’s (“Defendant”) demurrer to the initial
complaint’s second and third causes of action predicated on the Elder Abuse and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (“EADACPA”) on February 27, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on March 15,
2024. 
On April 16,
2024, Defendant filed this demurrer and motion to strike. Defendant again
demurs to Plaintiffs’ second and third causes of action for reckless neglect
and physical elder abuse in violation of the EADACPA. Defendant also moves to
strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. 

          On
July 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition briefs. 
          On
July 24, 2024, Defendant filed its reply briefs. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “We treat the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of
the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
1.  
Plaintiffs’
Second and Third Causes of Action for Elder/Dependent Adult Abuse 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ second
and third causes of action fail because Plaintiffs have still not alleged facts
that rise to the level of conduct which is entitled to heightened remedies
provided by the EADACPA.
 
Abuse of a dependent adult or elder
will justify heightened remedies when the cause of action includes facts
showing the following: “(a) Physical abuse, neglect, financial abuse,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical
harm or pain or mental suffering[; or] [¶] (b) The deprivation by a care
custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07.) Because of these
heightened remedies, a statutory claim under the EADACPA must be pled with
particularity. (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771, 790 (“Covenant Care”).
Where the elder or dependent adult has
died, the neglect or abuse resulting in pain or mental suffering must amount to
recklessness, oppression, fraud or malice, in order to justify the heightened
remedies. (Mack v. Soung (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 966, 972.) Acts of simple
or even gross negligence will not justify the additional civil damage remedies.
(Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 783-785.) When an elder
abuse claim is brought against a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must
further allege that an officer, director or managing agent committed, authorized
or ratified the abuse or neglect. (Welfare & Inst C § 15657(c); CC § 3294.)

Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s treatment
of Galindo in September and October of 2022 constituted negligence per se
because it failed to provide the licensed nurse to patient ratio mandated by
Title 22, CCR, section 70217, and did so with conscious disregard to the high
probability of significant injuries to Galindo. (FAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs cite
extensively to notes made in Galindo’s medical records and his vitals and
allege that Defendant restrained Galindo with bilateral wrist restraints despite
Plaintiffs’ insistence that he not be restrained. Plaintiffs provide examples
of allegedly “false reporting” and appear to allege that nursing notes were
fabricated because they included “copy and pasted language” documenting agitation,
violence, and potential for self-injury in Galindo’s medical records. (FAC, ¶¶ 36.)
Plaintiffs allege that the restraints kept Galindo from repositioning himself
and could not “clear his vomit” placing him at risk for aspiration, and that
Defendant refused to provide or offer a “sitter” to observe Galindo while he
was vomiting or provide any other alternative to restraints for financial
reasons. The Court notes that Plaintiffs state, in a footnote of their
opposition brief, that recently-produced financial records substantiated their
claims that Defendant was financially motivated to implement restraints instead
of providing a sitter. (Opp., pp. 5-6, n. 1.) However, the decision to use
restraints instead of providing a sitter does not demonstrate a “failure to
provide medical care”, but a difference in opinion on the type of medical care
that should have been provided. In addition, Plaintiffs’ allegation that other
alternatives should have been explored contradicts their own allegation that an
alternative option – “discontinuing the NG tube” – was, in fact, performed.
(FAC, ¶ 127.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ allegations still
only amount to a claim for professional negligence. (Sababin v. Superior
Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90 [neglect “speaks not of the undertaking
of medical services, but of the failure to provide medical care”].) Defendant’s
demurrer to the second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike 
As previously explained by the Court, a
claim for punitive damages cannot be alleged against a medical provider without
leave of court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13.) Since the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ claims of elder abuse, punitive damages may
only be alleged against Defendant after seeking leave of court. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the second and third
causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Defendant’s motion to strike is
GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 31st day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 