 Case Number:  22STCV13792    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROSEVIANNEY C. OGUMSI
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RICHARD
  DALE GENTILE, D.D.S., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22STCV3792
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO TAX COSTS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 31,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Rosevianney C. Ogumsi filed
this action against defendants Heydar Shahrokh, D.D.S. and Heydar Shahrokh,
D.D.S., Inc., dba Comfort Dental Center (collectively, “Defendants”) on April 26,
2022. 
On May 6, 2024, the Court entered
judgment in favor of Defendants following their motion for summary judgment. On
May 21, 2024, Defendants filed a memorandum of costs and served it on Plaintiff
via mail. On June 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion
to strike or tax costs. Plaintiff moves to strike: (a) $2,760 in filing and
motion fees, (b) $8,322.16 for deposition costs, (c) $89 for service of
process, (d) $1,200 in witness fees, (e) $270.60 for transcripts, and (f)
$9,325 for court reporter fees. 
Defendants
filed an opposition brief on July 24, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply brief on
July 29, 2024. 

II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032 (all
statutory references to follow are to the Code of Civil Procedure except when
otherwise indicated) provides for recovery of costs by a prevailing party. Allowable
costs under Section 1033.5 must be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation, rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and
must be reasonable in amount.¿An item not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a)
nor prohibited under subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the
discretion of the court if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably
necessary and reasonable in amount).¿If the items appearing in a cost bill
appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to
show that they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
761, 773-774.)¿On
the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.¿(Ibid.)
Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a
question of fact for the trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.¿(Ibid.)¿However, because the right to costs is
governed strictly by statute, a court has no discretion to award costs not
statutorily authorized.¿(Id.)¿Discretion is abused only when, in its
exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds of reason, all of
the circumstances being considered.”¿(Ibid.) In ruling upon a motion to tax costs,
the trial court’s first determination is whether the statute expressly allows
the particular item and whether it appears proper on its face, if so, the
burden is on the objecting party to show the costs to be unnecessary and
unreasonable. Where costs are not expressly allowed by statute, the burden is
on the party claiming the costs to show that the charges were reasonable and
necessary.
III.       
DISCUSSION 
Filing and Motion Fees
Plaintiff complains that Defendants’
line item entries for filing and motion fees are insufficient to establish that
they were “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation and/or
reasonable in amount.” Section 1033.5 specifically authorizes the recovery of filing
and motion fees and a review of the filings for which Defendants seek to
recover their filings shows that they were reasonable. These filings include numerous
pleadings such as answers, demurrers and special motions to strike in response
to Plaintiff’s initial and amended complaints, as well as two typical discovery
motions, an ex parte application, and a summary judgment motion, which
eventually disposed of this case. Plaintiff does not challenge any particular
filing as unnecessary or unreasonable. Therefore, the motion to tax filing fees
is DENIED. 
Deposition Costs
Plaintiff moves to tax $8,322.16 for
deposition costs. The memorandum of costs only lists $2,291.85 in connection
with Plaintiff’s deposition, taken on August 19, 2022, and 18 subpoenas duces
tecum in a single block-billed entry of $6,030.31. Taking, video recording, and
transcribing necessary depositions are allowable costs pursuant to section
1033.5(a)(3). Therefore, the costs for deposing Plaintiff are, on its face,
proper. 
However, there is no list of the
specific deponents for whom the additional costs were incurred and Defendants’
opposition merely lists 27 pages of receipts for issuing those subpoenas,
without demonstrating how these costs for 18 subpoenas were “necessarily
incurred.” Therefore, the motion to tax deposition costs is GRANTED in part in
the amount of $6,030.31. 
Service of Process Costs
Plaintiff moves to strike $89 incurred
for service on Soheil Yashari, D.D.S. (“Dr. Yashari”). Service of process fees
are explicitly authorized by section 1033.5(a)(4) and Plaintiff offers no
argument as to why this cost is unreasonable or not necessary to the litigation.
The motion to tax this cost is DENIED. 
Expert Witness Fees
Plaintiff objects to Defendants’
claimed cost of $1,200 for the expert, John Buoncristiani, D.D.S. Expert
witness fees are allowed as costs if they are ordered by the Court or authorized
by some other statute, such as Code of Civil Procedure section 998. There is no
indication from the record that Dr. Buoncristiani was an expert ordered by the
Court or that an offer to compromise pursuant to section 998 was made.
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to strike the expense of $1,200
for expert witness fees. 
Court Reporter Fees
Plaintiff moves to strike $9,325 for court
reporter fees because they were not ordered by the Court. There is no statutory
requirement that court reporters must be ordered by the Court in order for
their fees to be recoverable. Nevertheless, Defendants’ memorandum of costs does
not include any description identifying which hearings these court reporters
were hired for and Defendants make no effort to identify them in their
opposition brief, other than to attach copious pages of receipts. Therefore,
although court reporter fees are allowable by statute, Defendants do not show
how the entire amount was reasonable and necessary to the conduct of the
litigation. The amount of $9,325 is taxed from Defendants’ cost memo. 
Transcript Fees 
Defendants claim $270.60 to for
transcript fees. Transcript fees not ordered by the Court are expressly
disallowed. (C.C.P., § 1033.5(b)(5).) Defendants only argue that the transcript
ordered was later used to support their summary judgment motion, which is an
insufficient basis for showing that it was “ordered” by the Court. The motion
to tax the transcript fees is GRANTED.  
Models, Enlargements, and Photocopies
of Exhibits
Plaintiff moves to strike $214.06 claimed
for “models, enlargments, and photocopies of exhibits.” The memorandum of costs
specifies that $214.06 was incurred for “photocopying”, even though postage,
telephone, and photocopying charges are not allowable as costs, except for
exhibits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5(b)(3).) Even if the photocopying charges
were for exhibits, the cost to obtain models, enlargements, and photocopies of
exhibits would be allowable under section 1033.5(a)(13) if they were
“reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact.” Because Defendants prevailed at
summary judgment, before any exhibits were presented to the trier of fact,
these costs are not recoverable under section 1033.5(a)(13). Defendants also
provide no explanation for why these costs were reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation or reasonable. The Court, therefore, declines to
exercise its discretion to allow their recover. 
The motion to tax $214.06 for
photocopying costs is GRANTED. 
Fees for Electronic Filing or Service
Plaintiff argues that the $783.70 in electronic
filing/service fees claimed as costs by Defendants are not allowed by        statute. However, Los Angeles County
Superior Court requires electronic filing. Therefore, the fees for the
electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service
provider are allowable as costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5(a)(14).) Nevertheless,
Defendants do not specify how much each document cost to file or serve in an
attachment and there is no evidence of these charges attached to their
opposition brief. Accordingly, the motion to tax these costs is GRANTED. 
Court Imaging Costs
Defendants attach receipts showing that
they were charged to download various court documents. The costs incurred to
download court documents are not expressly authorized by statute and Defendants
do not explain why the downloaded documents were necessary to the conduct of
the litigation. The motion to tax $110.40 for court document images is GRANTED.

IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs is GRANTED
in part. The amount taxed from Defendants’ memorandum of costs is $17,938.07,
for a total amount remaining of $5,136.85 in recoverable costs. 
Dated
this 31st
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 