  Case Number:  22AHCV01061    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIO GARCIA, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JOANNA
   ESQUIVEL, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01061
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO RESOLVE MEDI-CAL LIEN 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 31,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On June 3, 2024, plaintiff Mario Garcia
(“Plaintiff”), a Medi-Cal beneficiary, filed this motion for an order resolving
Plaintiff’s medical liens pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code section
14124.76 and deeming them waived based on hardship. The impetus for this motion
is Plaintiff’s settlement with defendant Jennifer Suh in exchange for $100,000.

On July 18,
2024, the Department of Health Care Services (“DHCS”) filed a response to this
motion arguing that it was premature because other claims against co-defendants
remain pending in this action and no full settlement has been reached.
DHCS states
that it has not been able to perfect its lien because there has not been a
total settlement or resolution of claims, therefore it is unable to determine
its final lien amount.  W&I Code
section 14124.785 dictates that the DHCS’s recovery is limited to (and
therefore based on) the “total settlement, judgment, or award amount upon
resolution of all actions or claims associated with the injury with regard to
each and every defendant.” It follows then, that the DHCS’s recovery cannot yet
be determined because the action is still pending against several other defendants.  
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is
DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Dated
this 31st
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 