 Case Number:  24CHCV01988    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/9/24
Case #24CHCV01988
 
MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Motion filed on 12/2/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Alen Gevorgyan
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Christino Erasto Lara
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting Defendant Alen
Gevorgyan leave to file a cross-complaint. 

 
RULING: 
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision.  On 5/29/24, Plaintiff Christino Erasto Lara
(Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Alen Gevorgyan (Gevorgyan) and
Susanna Sukiasyan (Sukiasyan).  On
7/29/24, Gevorgyan filed an answer to the complaint through defense counsel
assigned by his insurance carrier. 
Gevorgyan intended to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff at the same
time he filed his answer; however, due to medical issues and leave associated
therewith, Gevorgyan’s private counsel who represents him on his cross-claims,
did not coordinate with his defense counsel to have the cross-complaint filed
at the same time as the answer.  (See
Karapetian Decl.).  Efforts to obtain a
stipulation from Plaintiff to allow Gevorgyan to file his cross-complaint went
unanswered.  Id.
 
On 10/18/24, Gevorgyan served, by email, the instant
motion seeking an order granting him leave to file his cross-complaint.  The email addresses where the motion papers
were served on Gevorgyan’s defense counsel, and more importantly, Plaintiff’s
counsel, are not their email addresses of record.  
 
The email address which appears in eCourt for Gevorgyan’s
defense counsel is rbergsten@hosplaw.com
and the motion was served on dabbasi@hosplaw.com.  However, the email address dabbasi@hosplaw.com appears on
Gevorgyan’s answer along with the email address of record and is one of the email
addresses indicated in the Consent to Electronic Service and Notice of Electronic
Service Address filed by defense counsel on 7/29/24.  
 
The email address of record for Plaintiff’s counsel which
also appears on Plaintiff’s complaint is service@mrparkerlaw.com.  The motion was served on Plaintiff’s counsel
at michael@mrparkerlaw.com.  There is no opposition or other response to
the motion to cure the defect in notice. 
   
 
Additionally, the motion and supporting papers were not
filed until 12/2/24, 5 court days before the hearing date.  CCP 1005(b) requires motion papers to be
filed at least 16 court days before the hearing date.  
 
If Plaintiff’s counsel appears at the hearing and has no
objection, the motion will be granted. 
If not, the motion will be placed off calendar due to the defects in
notice.       
 
If the motion is granted, Gevorgyan must separately file
the cross-complaint, which is attached to the Karapetian declaration as Exhibit
E, by 12/10/24.  
 
The Court notes that attorney Karapetian has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to his declaration in violation
of CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the
parties are warned that failure to comply with this rule in the future may
result in matters being continued so that papers can be submitted in
compliance, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.  
 