  Case Number:  23CHCV02301    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/9/24
Case #23CHCV02301
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Amended Motion filed on 6/21/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Rose Adele
Cavanagh

 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Pacifica SL Santa Clarita
LLC dba Pacifica Senior Living Santa Clarita erroneously sued as Pacifica
Senior Living aka Pacifica Senior Living Newhall aka Pacifica Senior Living
Santa Clarita; Pacifica Living Management LLC; W Lyons LLC; Pacifica Companies
LLC dba Pacifica Senior Living Santa Clarita
 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling Defendants
to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set 1, numbers
3-7, along with original verifications. 
Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendants and/or
their attorney of record, Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP, in the
amount of $1,935.
 
RULING: The motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises from the care and services provided to
Plaintiff Rose Adele Cavanagh (Plaintiff) beginning on 7/24/20 while she was a
resident at Defendant Pacifica Senior Living Santa Clarita (the Facility), a
residential care facility for the elderly. 
Plaintiff alleges that all defendants owned, operated, managed and/or
controlled the Facility and were Plaintiff’s “care custodians.”  (SAC ¶¶11, 14-15).  The operative Second Amended Complaint
alleges causes of action for: (1) Dependent and Elder Abuse/Neglect, (2)
Willful Misconduct, (3) Negligence, (4) Unfair Business Practices (Business
& Professions Code 17200, et seq.) and (5) Battery.   
 
On 3/7/24, Plaintiff separately served Defendants: (1)
Pacifica Senior Living aka Pacifica Senior Living Newhall aka Pacifica Senior
Living Santa Clarita, (2) Pacifica Living Management LLC, (3) W Lyons LLC and
(4) Pacifica Companies LLC dba Pacifica Senior Living Santa Clarita with
Requests for Admissions, Set 1.  (Conlogue
Decl., Ex.1-4).  Defendants’ demurrer to
the Second Amended Complaint identifies Defendants as: (1) Pacifica SL Santa
Clarita LLC dba Pacifica Senior Living Santa Clarita erroneously sued as
Pacifica Senior Living aka Pacifica Senior Living Newhall aka Pacifica Senior
Living Santa Clarita; (2) Pacifica Living Management LLC; (3) W Lyons LLC; and
(4) Pacifica Companies LLC dba Pacifica Senior Living Santa Clarita.
 
On 4/9/24, Plaintiff granted Defendants an extension to
respond to the discovery until 4/24/24. 
(Conlogue Decl. ¶12).  On 4/24/24,
Defendants electronically served responses but did not include Conlogue Law,
LLP (Plaintiff’s lead attorney), and later electronically served responses on
Conlogue Law, LLP on 4/29/24.  (Conlogue
Decl. ¶13, Ex.5-8).  The responses were
not verified.  Id.
 
Plaintiff found Defendants’ responses/objections to
Requests for Admissions 3-7 to be deficient/unfounded and began meet and confer
efforts regarding the discovery responses on 4/30/24.  (Conlogue Decl., Ex.9).  The parties agreed to extend the time to file
a motion to compel further responses to 6/24/24.  (Id., Ex.10, p.4).   As of the filing of the instant motion on
6/21/24, Defendants have failed provide further responses.  Id.
 
On 6/21/24, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order compelling Defendants to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set 1, numbers 3-7, along with original
verifications.  Additionally, Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendants and/or their attorney of record, Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP, in the amount of $1,935.  Defendants have opposed the motion and
Plaintiff has filed a reply to the opposition. 

 
ANALYSIS
  
Plaintiff has failed to provide clear notice of the
relief requested and has improperly combined various motions.
 
CRC 3.1110(a) provides that “[a] notice of motion must
state in the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the
grounds for issuance of the order.”  Here,
the opening paragraph of the notice of motion indicates that Plaintiff is
seeking further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set 1, numbers
3-7 along with original verifications, pursuant to CCP 2023.010 et seq. and CCP
2033.290.  (See First Amended
Notice of Motion, p.2:2-12).  
 
CCP 2033.240(a) provides that “[t]he party to whom the
requests for admission are directed shall sign the response under oath, unless
the response contains only objections.”  Defendants
responses to Requests for Admissions, numbers 3-7, consist solely of
objections.  (See Conlogue Decl.,
Ex.5-8).  Based on the notice of motion
it is not clear if Plaintiff is seeking only verifications for the responses to
Requests for Admissions, numbers 3-7, or as to the responses to all of the
Requests for Admissions.  From the separate
statement and reply, it appears that Plaintiff is seeking a verification for
the responses to all of the Requests for Admissions.  (See Separate Statement, p.2:8-12; Reply,
p.2:15-21).  Not only is such relief not
clearly requested in the notice of motion, but there is no statutory basis for
compelling verifications of responses to Requests for Admissions.  The California Code of Civil Procedure
provides that a party may move to have requests for admissions deemed admitted if
timely responses are not provided.  See
CCP 2033.280.  Since unverified responses
are the equivalent to no response (Appleton (1988) 206 CA3d 632, 636),
Plaintiff should have moved to have the matters in the unverified substantive
responses deemed admitted under CCP 2033.280.   
 
With regard to the request to compel further responses to
Requests for Admissions, numbers 3-7, Plaintiff has improperly combined four different
motions.  (The Court notes that initially
Plaintiff  reserved and filed a Motion to
Have Requests for Admissions, Set 1, Deemed Admitted, but then later filed a
First Amended Motion and Motion to Compel Defendants’ Further Responses to
Requests for Admissions, Set 1.  The motion
to compel further responses is not an “amended” version of the initial motion,
but rather, a completely different motion, which should have been reserved and
filed as four separate motions.).  Contrary
to Plaintiff’s assertion, neither the Requests for Admissions at issue nor the
responses thereto from the different responding parties are the same.  (See Motion, p.2:6-8; Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement, p.2, fn.1). 
 
For example, the four different versions of Request for
Admission, number 3, are:
 
(1) “Admit that DEFENDANT (as used herein the term
“DEFENDANT” refers to Defendant PACIFICA SENIOR LIVING AKA PACIFICA SENIOR
LIVING NEWHALL AKA PACIFICA SENIOR LIVING SANTA CLARITA, a business entity,
form unknown) owned PACIFICA on May 5, 2022.”  (Conlogue Decl.,
Ex.1).

 
(2) “Admit that DEFENDANT (as used herein the term
“DEFENDANT” refers to Defendant PACIFICA LIVING MANAGEMENT LLC, a business
entity, form unknown) owned PACIFICA on May 5, 2022.” (Conlogue Decl., Ex.2).
 
(3) “Admit that DEFENDANT (as used herein the term
“DEFENDANT” refers to Defendant W LYONS LLC, a business entity, form unknown)
owned PACIFICA on May 5, 2022.” 
(Conlogue Decl., Ex.3).
 
(4) “Admit that DEFENDANT (as used herein the term
“DEFENDANT” refers to Defendant PACIFICA COMPANIES LLC DBA PACIFICA SENIOR
LIVING SANTA CLARITA, a business entity, form unknown) owned PACIFICA on May 5,
2022.”  (Conlogue Decl., Ex.4).
 
The four different responses to Request for Admission,
number 3, are: 
 
(1) “Responding party objects that this request is
nonsensical as phrased and cannot be responded to as drafted.”  (Conlogue Decl., Ex.5).
 
(2) “Defendant objects that there is no entity entitled
Pacifica Living Management LLC. Responding party objects that this request is
nonsensical as phrased and cannot be responded to as drafted.”  (Conlogue Decl., Ex.6).
 
(3) “Defendant objects that there is no entity entitled
W. LYONS LLC. Responding party objects that this request is nonsensical as
phrased and cannot be responded to as drafted.” 
(Conlogue Decl., Ex.7).
 
(4) “Defendant objects that there is no entity entitled
PACIFICA LIVING MANAGEMENT LLC. Responding party objects that this request is
nonsensical as phrased and cannot be responded to as drafted.”  (Conlogue Decl., Ex.8).
 
Plaintiff fails to include or adequately address the
different requests and responses thereto in the motion and accompanying
separate statement.  
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied.
 