 Case Number:  22STCV19328    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
PLEASE NOTE THAT
THE COURT IS UNAVAILABLE FOR ORAL ARGUMENT ON THE MOTION. IF A PARTY REQUESTS
ORAL ARGUMENT, THE HEARING WILL BE CONTINUED TO NOVEMBER 8, 2024 AT 1:30 P.M.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19328




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for an Order of Good Faith Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Tobby Rolf Alvestad 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant/
  Cross-complainant Postmates, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 14, 2022, Plaintiff Hector Carbajal (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Kevin Mauricio Gutierrez Munoz (“Munoz”),
Postmates, Inc., Mario Santiago Vasquez Linares, Tobby Rolf Alvestad, and Does
1 to 24 for negligence based on a motor vehicle accident that occurred on
February 13, 2021. 
 
Defendant Tobby Rolf Alvestad (“Alvestad”) now moves for an order that
the settlement entered between Plaintiff and himself was in good faith.
Defendant/ Cross-complainant Postmates, LLC (“Postmates”) opposes. Co-defendant
Mario Santiago Vasquez Linares (“Linares”) has filed a notice of joinder in
opposition. Alvestad replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
“ ‘A determination as to the good faith of a settlement, within the
meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to examine and
weigh a number of relevant factors, [fn. omitted] one of the most important of
which is the settling party's proportionate liability.’ [citation.] If ‘there
is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the nature
and extent of a settling defendant's liability, then a determination of good
faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.’” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350.)
 
However, the
rule in Tech-Bilt that the settlement figure must not be grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time of settlement would
estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be, has an exception. “[B]ad
faith is not established merely by a showing that a settling defendant with
limited ability to satisfy a judgment will pay less than his or her theoretical
proportionate share: ‘Such a rule would unduly discourage settlements. “For the
damages are often speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefor
is often uncertain or remote. And even where the claimant's damages are
obviously great, and the liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low
settlement figure is often reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent,
and uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.” [Citation.]’” (Schmid v.
Superior Court (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1244, 1248 [quoting Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499]; see also City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1264 [“The wealth or non-wealth of the
settling defendant is a factor for the trial court to consider under Tech-Bilt.”].)  
  
Schmid involved a car accident where the plaintiff
alleged $500,000 in damages. (Schmid, supra, 205 Cal.App.3d at 1247.) The
defendant driver, Schmid, offered her insurance policy limit of $55,000 as a
settlement. Even though the trial court denied the motion for good faith
because the settlement was disproportional to her liability, the Court of
Appeal reversed because the settlement represented the policy limit, there was
undisputed evidence that Schmid had no other assets, and the non-settling
defendant had failed to oppose the motion. (Id. at 1248–49.)  
 
“All affidavits relied upon as probative must state evidentiary facts;
they must show facts and circumstances from which the ultimate fact sought to
be proved may be deduced by the court. [citation.] Affidavits or declarations
setting forth only conclusions, opinions or ultimate facts are to be held
insufficient; even an expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of
substantial evidence if it is unsubstantiated by facts. [citation.]” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
In this case, Plaintiff alleges he was injured as a pedestrian in a three-car
collision, resulting in Alvestad’s car ricocheting from the collision and
striking Plaintiff on a sidewalk. Plaintiff and Alvestad have settled for
$100,000, representing Alvestad’s policy limit. 
 
Alvestad argues the police report found that Munoz was completely at
fault. Munoz, on the other hand disputes this and contends he entered the
intersection on a green light, and Linares and Alvestad ran the red light.
(Perkins Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) As a result, liability is disputed. Alvestad
testified that he was driving through the intersection on a green light when Linares’
vehicle hit him on the left side, causing him to go off the road and into the
brick wall with Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) Plaintiff sustained
fractures to his left tibia and fibula. (Id. ¶ 6.) Alvestad asserts the
settlement represents his policy limits and there was no collusion or fraud in
reaching the settlement. Linares was purportedly delivering food through the
Postmates Application at the time of the incident. 
 
In opposition, Postmates first argues that the settlement at issue
here has not occurred since it is conditioned on the Court’s granting this
motion. However, Postmates fails to show how this condition affects the Court’s
consideration of the instant motion. 
 
Next, it argues that Alvestad has not calculated Plaintiff’s potential
recovery, or that the $100,000 policy limit is his only coverage and does not
show an allocation of the settlement to Postmates. However, Postmates asserts
that Linares was struck first by Munoz, and does not appear to dispute
Alvestad’s recounting of the incident. (Opp., 7.) Next, Postmates asserts that
Plaintiff’s Statement of Damages claims $2.5 million for pain and suffering,
$2.5 million for emotional distress, and $2 million in economic damages.
Postmates also points out that Alvestad did not produce the settlement
agreement.[1] 
 
            The Court recognizes that Alvestad
should pay less in settlement than at trial. However, Alvestad has not
discussed his potential liability for being the vehicle that struck Plaintiff
and how this affects his proportional liability in relation to the other
defendants, nor does Alvestad calculate Plaintiff’s approximate damages.
Moreover, Alvestad provides no other information about his assets such that the
Court could find that the reasoning in Schmid applies.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for determination of good faith settlement is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 
Moving party shall give notice of the ruling and file a proof of
service of such. 


