 Case Number:  24STCV00301    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
PLEASE NOTE THAT
THE COURT IS UNAVAILABLE FOR ORAL ARGUMENT ON THE MOTION. IF A PARTY REQUESTS
ORAL ARGUMENT, THE HEARING WILL BE CONTINUED TO NOVEMBER 8, 2024 AT 1:30 P.M.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCV00301




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Marco Dominic Dapper




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff
Marco Dominic Dapper (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Sterling
Martin Beaumon, Claire Beaumon, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and negligent
entrustment involving a motor vehicle accident.  
 
Defendant now moves to compel compliance
with a deposition subpoena against a non-party witness, Steve Ceniceros
(“Ceniceros”). No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored information,
and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ “Any person
may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy of it as follows: . . . If
the deponent is a natural person, to that person.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(b)(1).)

 
Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to
require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and
testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and
to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be
punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the court
directing compliance by the witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion
to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days
after completion of the deposition record, the date objections are served, or
the date specified for production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered
Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011,
1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Declaration of Allan Fanucchi,
Plaintiff’s counsel, fails to describe a meet and confer effort.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff
appears to bring this motion to compel under Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450. (See Motion, 5.) However, that section only applies to “a party to
the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) Here, Plaintiff asserts Ceniceros is a non-party
witness. Therefore, the Court finds that Code of Civil Procedure sections 1987.1 and 2025.480 apply.

 
On July
11, 2024, Plaintiff served Ceniceros with a deposition subpoena for July 25,
2024. (Fanucchi Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. A.) On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff then served
an amended notice for September 11, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9, Exh. B.) On
September 11, 2024, Ceniceros failed to appear, and a Certificate of non-appearance
was obtained. (Id., Exh. C.)
 
Plaintiff
provides a proof of service of the deposition subpoena on Ceniceros that was
delivered on July 11, 2024 at 8:00 p.m. and a proof of service of the Second
Amended Notice, personally served on August 29, 2024 at 5:13 p.m. (Exh. D.) 
 
Therefore, because Ceniceros
received a proper subpoena to appear for a deposition on September 11, 2024 and
failed to appear, the motion to compel is granted. The Court declines to award
monetary sanctions since Plaintiff failed to adequately meet and confer. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion to compel compliance with the
deposition subpoena. Steve Ceniceros shall appear for a deposition within 20 days’
notice of this order. Plaintiff shall personally serve a copy of the order and
a subpoena for the new date.
 
            Plaintiff shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 
 