 Case Number:  22STCV22180    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
PLEASE NOTE THAT
THE COURT IS UNAVAILABLE FOR ORAL ARGUMENT ON THE MOTION. IF A PARTY REQUESTS
ORAL ARGUMENT, THE HEARING WILL BE CONTINUED TO NOVEMBER 8, 2024 AT 1:30 P.M.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  7, 2024 




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV22180




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Conduct an Additional Physical Examination in Neurology




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Jardiel Ochoa and Melissa Rosann
  Diazochoa




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants Jardiel Ochoa and
Melissa Rosann Diazochoa (“Defendants”) move for leave to conduct an additional
physical examination of Plaintiff Shontia Johnson (“Plaintiff”). No opposition
has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in
which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may
demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The declaration of Stacy Bandhold, Defendants’ counsel, states the
following: “On or about August 26, 2024, I spoke telephonically with counsel
for plaintiff about obtaining plaintiff’s consent to submit to additional
independent medical examinations, including in the specialty of neurological,
based on plaintiff’s new neurological and TBI claims. During this call,
plaintiff’s counsel said she would not stipulate to an additional examinations,
but nonetheless invited me to make a motion that would likely be granted. At
the conclusion of the call, plaintiff’s counsel indicated that I would receive
a response to my prior emails by the end of the day. However, I did not receive
any response to my meet and confer emails after the phone call with plaintiff’s
counsel.” (Bandhold Decl. ¶ 16-17.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement
is met.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident. The first physical
examination was limited to Plaintiff’s back and neck injuries; she was examined
by a neurosurgeon. However, Plaintiff has also treated with neurologists.
(Bandhold Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B, Pl. Depo. at 52:10-22.) Plaintiff’s supplemental
interrogatory responses indicate ongoing conditions to the head, as well as
past and future anticipated treatment with a neurologist at TBI Specialists. (Id.
¶ 9, Exh. D.) Further responses show Plaintiff is undergoing neurological
treatment with Dr. Jonathan Eskanazi. (Id., Exh. E.) Additionally, a
medical report from TBI Specialists shows ongoing sensory and cognitive
conditions, including light and noise-triggered headaches, occasional blurred
vision, spinning sensations, bilateral tinnitus, radiating pain, difficulty
concentrating, and slow word recall. (Id. ¶ 11, Exh. F.) 
 
Defendants ask for leave to conduct a neurological examination with Kenneth
L. Nudleman, M.D., a neurologist, on November 19, 2024 at 9:00 a.m., at 801
North Tustin Avenue, Suite 304, Santa Ana, California 92705. 
 
Therefore, given Plaintiff’s discovery responses regarding her
neurological issues, the Court finds good cause to grant leave to conduct the
neurological examination. Defendants have properly included the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Jardiel Ochoa and Melissa Rosann Diazochoa’s motion for leave to Conduct an
Additional Physical Examination in Neurology is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 