 Case Number:  23STCV15836    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JILL
  BELASCO 
 
         vs.
 
FOUNTAIN
  OF WELLBEING, INC, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15836 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 20, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend to file a FAC is GRANTED. 
 
On 7/6/2023,
Plaintiff Jill Belasco (Plaintiff) filed suit against Fountain of Wellbeing,
Inc., Romie Chaudhari, and Unite4, LLC, alleging: (1) failure to pay wages; (2)
waiting time penalties; (3) failure to reimburse business expenses, and
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
           On
2/20/2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to file a first amended complaint (FAC)
 
Discussion 
 
           Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend to file a FAC.
 
The proposed
amendment would add factual allegations and causes of action related to (1)
threats to hurt or kill Plaintiff and her family made by Defendant Chaudhari
and Plaintiff’s emotional distress and other damages as a result of those
threats, (2) defamatory statements made by Defendant Chaudhari against Plaintiff;
(3) equity interest owned by Plaintiff in Defendant FWB, and (4) workplace
hostile environment that Plaintiff was forced to endure during her employment
at Defendant FWB. (Campbell Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) The proposed amendment would add
four additional causes of actions based on the above allegations including (1)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (2) Defamation, (3) Declaratory
Relief, and (4) Sexual Harassment in Violation of FEHA (Campbell Decl. ¶ 3, Ex.
2.)
 
Plaintiff
contends that “[t]he request for amendment was not made sooner because (1)
there were hopes that the case would resolve early in litigation and (2)
Plaintiff has substantial trepidation that Defendant Chaudhari is a very
vengeful person and things could get worse for her if she were to bring claims
other than the most basic claim for wages due. (Campbell Decl. ¶ 3 and
Declaration of Jill Belasco (“Belasco Decl.”) at ¶ 5.)” (Motion, 3: 12-16.) 
 
The
policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an abuse of discretion
to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show meaningful prejudice.
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
 
Here, trial
is not until 8/18/2025, and litigation is in the earliest stages of discovery,
as no depositions have been taken and only a few documents have been produced.
Plaintiff’s motion is adequately supported by a proposed amended pleading and a
substantive explanation as to why the new allegations are necessary, and why
they were not alleged sooner. Accordingly, the Court finds no meaningful
prejudice would result from granting leave to amend. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend to file a FAC is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  March   
, 2024
                                                                                                                       
                   
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 