  Case Number:  19STCV03192    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  A 19STCV03192 Apolonio
 Garcia, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Rafael Garcia v. Antonio Uribe
 Caracheo, et al.
Tuesday, June
 18, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SEAL RECORDS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING THE HEARING ON PETITION FOR COMPROMISE OF
 A DISPUTED CLAIM OF A PERSON WITH A DISABILITY                                                                                                                                                          
 
 
                                                                                   
I.         
MOTION TO SEAL
Petitioner filed a redacted Amended Petition for
Approval of Compromise on May 16, 2024. Petitioner requests an order to permit
redaction of portions of the amended petition and supporting documents referring
to the amount of settlement and its distribution as well as references to
Plaintiff’s medical condition in order to protect the Petitioner’s privacy,
safety, and well being. 
Court records are
presumed to be open. (Cal. Rules of Court, 2.550 subd. (c).) The burden is on the
moving party to show compelling reasons for sealing records. (Mary R. v. B. & R. Corp. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 308, 317.) To support an order to seal
records, the court must find that “(1) there is an overriding interest
supporting sealing records; (2) there is a substantial probability that the
interest will be prejudiced absent sealing; (3) the proposed sealing is
narrowly tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (4) there is no less
restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest." (McNair v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 25, 29; Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550 subd.
(d).)
An agreement not
to disclose can constitute an “overriding interest” where there is specific
showing of serious injury. (McNair at 35–36.) Once the moving party identifies an
overriding interest, the moving party must show “a substantial probability that
it will be prejudiced absent closure or sealing." (Universal City Studios, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.)
Petitioner has
identified a compelling interests to protect Petitioner’s private financial and
health information (City of Carmel-By-The-Sea v. Young (1970) 2 Cal.3d 259, 268 ["In any event we are satisfied
that the protection of one's personal financial affairs and those of his (or
her) spouse and children against compulsory public disclosure is an aspect of
the zone of privacy which is protected by the Fourth Amendment and which also
falls within that penumbra of constitutional rights into which the government
may not intrude absent a showing of compelling need and that the intrusion is
not overly broad."]. Publication of a person’s assets "can be
expected to bring unwanted solicitation from a variety of salesmen and others,
could well encourage harassment lawsuits or demands of like nature, and could
expose the public officer and family to various criminal elements in our
society." (Id. at 270.)
Petitioner has
shown a substantial probability that Petitioner’s privacy interests will be
prejudiced absent sealing the records. The proposed order is narrowly tailored
to serve Petitioner’s  privacy interests,
and there is no less restrictive means of protecting that interest. 
                                                                                       
II.         
CONCLUSION

Accordingly, the
Petitioner’s motion to seal the petition and supporting exhibits are GRANTED. 
 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING THE HEARING ON PETITION FOR COMPROMISE OF
 A DISPUTED CLAIM OF A PERSON WITH A DISABILITY                                                                                                                                                          
 
      
 
      Plaintiff
has not complied with the court’s order of April 30, 2024, which required notice
and service of the petition on three state agencies including the Dept. of
Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health Care
Services.  (Probate Code sections
3602(f), 3611(c).)  The proof of service
attached to the petition does not indicate such service was made. 
      The
court’s file does not reflect that Plaintiff lodged the amended petition with
the Probate Division at least 30 days before the hearing:
"… the Probate Division must review the terms of the proposed
trust. The terms of the trust must include the provisions required in the
California Rules of Court, rule 7.903, and Local Rule 4.116. To facilitate
timely review, a party seeking to establish and fund a trust as part of a
petition for approval of a compromise filed in a civil department pursuant to
subsection (a)(2) of this rule must, within two court days of the filing of the
petition to approve the compromise and trust, lodge with the filing window of
the Probate Division at Stanley Mosk Courthouse a physical copy of the face
page of the petition to approve the compromise and attach a copy of the
proposed trust instrument and the proposed order approving the compromise and
trust." (Los Angeles
Superior Court Rule 4.115.)
            Based
on the foregoing, the court continues the hearing to July 30,
 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton Courthouse. 