 Case Number:  22VECV02299    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  W KAREN SORONOW,
et al. v. SUNSHINE'S PLACE II, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel
deposition testimony from rosario soriano and for sanctions 
 
Date of Hearing:        June
27, 2024                        Trial Date:       December
9, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02299
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Karen
Soronow
Responding Party:     Defendant
Sunshine’s Place II                      
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow filed a
complaint on December 6, 2022 against Defendant Sunshine’s Place II,  alleging (1) Wrongful Death – Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; (2) Survival – Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and/or Retention; (3) Wrongful Death – Negligence; (4) Survival –
Negligence; and (5) Elder Abuse. Plaintiff alleges her mother, Joyce Soronow,
was a resident of Sunshine’s Place, II. While under Sunshine’s care, Plaintiff
alleges failed to provide for her basic needs, caused a lapse in her care, and
inflicted terrible pain and suffering that caused Joyce’s fatal injuries. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff
Karen Soronow’s Motion to Compel Deposition Testimony from Rosario Soriano and
For Sanctions is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow moves the court
for an order compelling deposition testimony from Rosario Soriano and monetary
sanctions in the amount of $1,200.00 against Defendant Sunshine’s Place II and
its attorney of record. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds Defendant has
asserted unmeritorious objections to Plaintiff’s questions at Ms. Soriano’s deposition.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.480 provides in relevant part that “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document…under the deponent's control that is
specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.” (CCP §2025.480(a).) The motion must be made “no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP §2025.480(b);
see also Weinstein v. Blumberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 316, 321 [the
60-day deadline is mandatory].) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
the motion, the moving party “shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion.” (CCP §2025.480(h).) 
 
Plaintiff first argues at Ms. Soriano’s
deposition, Plaintiff requested the phone numbers for each of the following
responsible persons for residents at Defendant’s facility during the relevant
period for this matter: Andrea Bishop, Myrian Tobada, Mary Simone, Samantha
Aneta, and Sharon Para. However, Defendant instructed Ms. Soriano not to answer
even though Ms. Soriano has identified these individuals as the responsible
persons for the residents at her facility during the relevant time period and
the court also had previously ordered that contact information for these
individuals discoverable and sufficiently protected by the parties’ stipulated
protective order. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff
incorrectly states that Defendant was required to produce the contact
information for each individual. Plaintiff had initially requested that
defendant "Identify the Responsible person for each Sunshine resident at
the facility in November 2020.” As such, defendant argues the person’s identity
alone is sufficient. Furthermore, Sunshine has an obligation to protect these
individual’s privacy rights.   
 
The court finds the request for contact
information proper and overrules the objections. If Ms. Soriano knows this
information, she is to answer the question. However, if she does not, Plaintiff
cannot force Ms. Soriano to answer. 
 
Next, Plaintiff argues at Ms. Soriano’s
deposition, Plaintiff asked her several questions relating to the safety of the
residents and her understanding of the applicable laws, rules, and regulations
for an RCFE. (See Mot. p. 8.) Defendant, however, objected and instructed Ms.
Soriano not to answer these questions on the grounds that they sought legal
conclusions, expert opinion, invoked “reptile theory,” lacked foundation,
called for speculation, and were not calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. 
 
The court agrees, in part. The court
agrees that objections to question numbers 4 through 7 are improper. They do
not ask for legal conclusions. Ms. Soriano is the administrator and licensee.
As a result, these questions fall within Ms. Soriano’s personal knowledge and she
is competent to testify to those issues. 
The objection on the purported ground of “reptile theory” is overruled;
no such objection exists at the discovery phase, and none of these requests
come close to triggering an improper emotional response. Plaintiff is entitled
to inquire about “any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
… .” (CCP § 2017.010.) However, as for questions 1 through 3, the court finds
they improperly call for a legal conclusion and the objections stand. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to
compel deposition testimony is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests $1,200.00 in
sanctions against Defendant and his counsel, jointly and severally for
Defendant’s misuse of the discovery process. However, the court finds Defendant
acted with substantial justification in opposing the motion. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
DENIED.  