Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 19STCV02070
Plaintiff's Name: Latasha Bracks
Defendant's Name: Los Angeles Unified School District
People Names: 
Company Names: 
Places: Florence Griffith Joyner Elementary School, Los Angeles
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles:
- Judge: Kerry Bensinger
- Parties: Latasha Bracks (Plaintiff), Los Angeles Unified School District (Defendant)
- Witnesses: Carlos Carrillo, Dai Shalon Jordan, Mary Charlotte Borgen
- Expert: Eris J. Barillas
Significant Statements:
- "A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person" (Gov. Code, ยง 815(a))
- "A dangerous condition of public property is a condition of public property that creates a substantial risk of injury to members of the general public when the property is used with reasonable care and in a reasonably foreseeable manner" (CACI No. 1102)
- "A claim for constructive notice has two threshold elements. A plaintiff must establish that the dangerous condition has existed for a sufficient period of time and that the dangerous condition was obvious" (Heskel v. City of San Diego, 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 320)
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English:

The judge has ruled in favor of the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) and granted their motion for summary judgment. The plaintiff, Latasha Bracks, alleged that she slipped and fell on a liquid substance on the floor of Florence Griffith Joyner Elementary School, which was owned and operated by LAUSD. The judge found that LAUSD did not have actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition, as there was no evidence that the spill was obvious or that anyone else had reported it.

The judge concluded that the plaintiff had failed to carry her burden of showing that the condition was obvious, as she did not provide any evidence that the condition was visible or that anyone else had noticed it. The judge also noted that the plaintiff's own testimony indicated that she did not see the liquid substance on the floor before she fell.

As a result, the judge granted LAUSD's motion for summary judgment and found that they were not liable for the plaintiff's injuries. The judge's ruling is subject to change if the parties submit written arguments or if the opposing party appears at the hearing and argues against the tentative ruling.