


[1] Plaintiff also named Department of
General Services, City of Los Angeles, and County of Los Angeles as
defendants.  Plaintiff dismissed these
defendants in March and April 2021.


[2] Ms. Borgen is described as LAUSD’s
employee but it is unclear what her job duties entailed.  Whatever the case, Ms. Borgen was at the
Premises on the day of the incident.


[3] Plaintiff’s opposition focuses on
the causes of action for negligence and premises liability.  However, LAUSD is a public entity.  As discussed above, common law causes of
action cannot be asserted against a public entity.  As such Government Code sections 835 and
835.2 control.  


[4] To establish a claim of dangerous condition on public
property, a plaintiff must prove: (1) that the defendant owned or controlled
the property; (2) that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of
the injury; (3) that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable
risk of the kind of injury that occurred; (4) that defendant had notice of the
dangerous condition for a long enough time to have protected against it; (5)
that plaintiff was harmed; and (6) that the dangerous condition was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (Gov. Code, § 835; CACI No.
1100.)¿   


[5] LAUSD also contends the alleged
dangerous condition was not created by a wrongful act or omission of an LAUSD
employee.  As Plaintiff does not
challenge this contention, the Court need not address it.  But the relevant issue as presented here is
not whether the liquid on the floor was caused by the negligent or wrongful
conduct of an employee, but rather whether LAUSD had notice of the spill within
the meaning of section 835(b).  


[6] To the extent Plaintiff tries to
create triable issues of fact related to LAUSD’s inspection of the hallway,
that argument fails because the adequacy of LAUSD’s inspection is a “secondary”
consideration in determining whether the entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition.  (State of California v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d
396, 400; see also Strongman v. County of Kern (1967)
255 Cal.App.2d 308, 313.)  As the court
explained in State of California: “In the instant case, it can be
validly argued that there was a triable issue on the question of inspection,
but in determining whether there is constructive notice, the method of
inspection has been held to be secondary. The primary and indispensable element
of constructive notice is a showing that the obvious condition existed a
sufficient period of time before the accident.” (263 Cal.App.2d at
p. 400, original italics.)
 


[7]  Given
the Court’s ruling that the spill in the hallway was not obvious, the Court
need not reach the issue whether the spill existed long enough that a
reasonable inspection would have ascertained its existence.  If the Court were to reach this issue,
however, case law supports LAUSD’s argument that the liquid’s presence, under
these circumstances, for some 15 to 20 minutes is insufficient.  In Kotronakis, supra, plaintiff
sued the city for injuries sustained when he slipped on a puddle of vomit on a
sidewalk near the bus terminal.  The
court noted that puddles of vomit were frequent occurrences, both in the area
and in the general vicinity, but there was no evidence the vomit on which the
plaintiff slipped had been there longer than overnight.  (Id. at p. 629.)  The court wrote: “We think that it would be
carrying the doctrine of constructive notice too far to attribute to the city
notice of the presence of the vomit on which plaintiff slipped.  As a practical matter, if we were to do so,
the city would have to have inspections circulating throughout the area, day
and night, and particularly on Sunday nights to discover and remove such
material from the sidewalks.  In our
opinion, to state the proposition is to refute it.” (Id at. p.
630.)  If “overnight” is the benchmark,
Plaintiff’s evidence falls far short. 
Plaintiff fails to cite
any case law to the contrary.   

