  Case Number:  19STCV02070    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
16, 2023                   TRIAL DATE: 
November 8, 2023
 
CASE:                         Latasha
Bracks v. The City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV02070 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, 
OR
ALTERNATIVELY, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING
PARTY:               Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Latasha Bracks
 
 
I.          PROCEDURAL
BACKGROUND
 
            On January
23, 2019, Plaintiff, Latasha Bracks, initiated this action[1]
against Defendant, Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) for injuries arising
from a slip and fall while walking through the main hallway on Defendant’s
premises.  Plaintiff alleges the floor of
the hallway was in a dangerous condition, and Defendant had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition.
 
            On August 30,
2022, LAUSD filed this motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication.  Plaintiff opposes
and LAUSD replies. 
 
            On
September 25, 2023, the Court heard oral argument.  The Court continued the hearing to October 16,
2023, to consider counsel’s arguments.  After
further review, the Court revises the tentative as follows:  
 
II.        BRIEF
SUMMARY OF THE FACTUAL BACKGROUND
 
            On August 13,
2018, Plaintiff attended a “Welcome Back BBQ” at Florence Griffith Joyner
Elementary School (the “Premises”) for parents and students.  At the conclusion of the event, Plaintiff walked
through the main hallway of the Premises intending to leave through the front
door.  While walking through the hallway,
Plaintiff slipped and fell on a liquid substance and sustained injuries.
 
III.       LEGAL
STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  If the
moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied.  (See Id.; see
also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)  Even if the moving party does
carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion by
presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)  The defendant
“must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain
evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.) 
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.”  (Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
            The court
must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)
 “On a summary judgment motion, the court
must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. 
If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”  (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. 
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
IV.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff
submits five (5) objections to LAUSD’s evidence.  Four objections are aimed at portions of Plaintiff’s
testimony and the last objection is aimed at portions of the Declaration of Dai
Shalon Jordan.  Ms. Jordan is the
principal of Florence Griffith Joyner Elementary School and was present at the
Premises on the day of the incident.  The
Court need not rule on the objections as they do not affect the Court’s decision.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(q).)    
 
            LAUSD
submits three (3) objections to Plaintiff’s evidence.  LAUSD objects to the Declaration of
Plaintiff’s expert, Eris J. Barillas, portions of Plaintiff’s testimony, and
portions of the testimony of LAUSD employee Mary Charlotte Borgen[2].  LAUSD does not identify the purportedly
objectionable portions of Plaintiff’s or Ms. Borgen’s testimony.  Given the lack of clarity, the Court cannot
rule on LAUSD’s objections.  Ultimately, LAUSD’s objections are not material
to the Court’s ruling.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)    
 
 V.       DISCUSSION
 
A. The Incident
 
On August 13, 2018, Florence Griffith Joyner Elementary School hosted a
“Welcome Back BBQ” in the outside patio area of the school campus (the
“Premises”).  (LAUSD’s Undisputed
Material Facts (“UMF”) 1, 2.)  Plaintiff
attended the event.  (UMF 3.)  At the conclusion of the event at 4:00 p.m.,
Plaintiff walked through the main hallway of the Premises.  (UMF 6.)  As she walked through the hallway, Plaintiff contends
she slipped on water on the floor.  (UMF
1, 5.)  Plaintiff did not see anything on
the floor prior to her fall.  (UMF
6.)  Plaintiff’s view was not obstructed,
nor was she distracted as she walked through the hallway of the Premises.  (UMF 7.) 
Plaintiff could not describe the amount of water on the floor which
caused her fall but indicated at her deposition that “[i]t was enough to make
me hurt myself” (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 58:4-10), and that the back of her pants
and her back were wet after she slipped and fell.  (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 57:7-19).  LAUSD employee Mary Charlotte Borgen confirmed
there was water on the floor where Plaintiff slipped.  (Borgen Depo., pp. 14:21-15:9.)  Plaintiff did not know how long the water had
been on the floor before she fell.  (Plaintiff’s
Depo., p. 143:16-18.)  Plaintiff saw
other people leaving the Premises and walking through the main hallway at the
time she did.  (UMF 12.)  No one else fell in the main hallway on the
day of the incident.  (UMF 14.)  
 
On the day of the Welcome Back BBQ, maintenance
worker Carlos Carrillo conducted a visual inspection of the Premises.  He did not see any spills, debris, food, liquid,
trash or other items on the floor. 
(Declaration of Carlos Carrillo, ¶¶ 9, 13.)  School principal Dai Shalon Jordan walked
through the main hallway approximately 15-20 minutes before 4:00 p.m. and did
not see any material that could be a slip, trip, or fall hazard.  (Declaration of Dai Shalon Jordan, ¶ 13.)  LAUSD is not aware of any complaints made regarding
slip and falls in the main hallway prior to Plaintiff’s slip and fall.  (Carrillo Decl., ¶ 14; Jordan Decl., ¶ 15.)
 
B. Applicable Law 
 
Government Code section 815
provides that “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such
injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public
employee or any other person” except as provided by statute.  (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a); see Hoff v.
Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.) “[D]irect tort
liability of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them
to be liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care, and not on the
general tort provisions of Civil Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule
of immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the routine
application of general tort principles.” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire
Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.)  Here, the
applicable statutory provisions are Government Code sections 835 and 835.2. [3]
 
            Section 835 provides: “Except as
provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either: [¶] (a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee
of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous
condition; or [¶] (b) The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the
dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury
to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”  (Gov. Code, § 835.)[4]
 
            Section 835.2 follows on, providing
in pertinent part: “(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous
condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character. [¶] (b) A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only
if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period
of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the
exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous
character....” (Gov. Code, § 835.2.)
 
C. Contentions 
 
There are three issues to be
decided: (1) Whether the liquid in the hallway was a dangerous condition; (2) Whether
the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk, and (3) Whether LAUSD
had actual or constructive notice of the condition.[5]  
 
            1.  Dangerous Condition 
 
“A ‘dangerous condition’ is a
condition of public property that creates a substantial risk of injury to
members of the general public when the property [or adjacent property] is used
with reasonable care and in a reasonably foreseeable manner.¿  A condition that creates only a minor risk of
injury is not a dangerous condition.”  (CACI No. 1102.)¿¿“A claim alleging a
dangerous condition may not rely on generalized allegations but must specify in
what manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.”  (Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1340, 1347; Brenner v. City of El Cajon (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 434, 439.)  
 
LAUSD argues Plaintiff cannot
establish the main hallway of the Premises was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the incident.  This argument
lacks merit.  Plaintiff testified that
she slipped and fell on water in the hallway. 
This claim is corroborated by her testimony that the back of her pants and her back were wet after she fell. (Plaintiff’s
Depo., p. 57:7-19).  Further, LAUSD
employee, Mary Charlotte Borgen, also testified there was liquid where
Plaintiff fell.  Ms. Borgen stated, “In
my memory it was wet where [Plaintiff] slipped, but I can’t remember the
specific.”  (Borgen Depo., p. 15:2-3.)  When asked again, Ms. Borgen confirmed that in
her memory, it was wet where Plaintiff slipped. 
(Id., p. 15:4-9.)  Read together,
this testimony establishes that there was liquid on the floor where Plaintiff
fell.  Construed liberally in favor of
the party opposing summary judgment, Plaintiff establishes there was a
dangerous condition on LAUSD’s property.  LAUSD fails to carry its initial burden on
this issue.
 
            2.  Foreseeable Risk
 
To establish a claim of dangerous
condition on public property, a plaintiff must prove, in part, that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
that occurred when the property is used with reasonable care.¿ (Gov. Code, §§
830, 835; CACI Nos. 1100, 1102.)¿  
 
LAUSD argues that if a dangerous
condition existed at the time of the incident, Plaintiff fails to show the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
that occurred because Plaintiff did not pay attention where she was
walking.  In support, LAUSD points to the
undisputed fact that Plaintiff did not observe the alleged spill as she walked
through the hallway.  (UMF 6.)  From this undisputed fact, LAUSD draws
several unsupported conclusions.  First, LAUSD
argues Plaintiff’s failure to see water on the ground means she did not walk
with reasonable care.  There is no
evidence Plaintiff did not walk with reasonable care.  For example, there is no evidence she was intoxicated,
distracted, or careless as she walked down the hallway.  Simply because she did not see the water on
the floor does not establish she was careless. 
Second, LAUSD argues that because Plaintiff did not see water on the
floor, a slip and fall is not a reasonably foreseeable risk.  Again, the undisputed fact does not support this
argument.  Indeed, a slip and fall is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of water on the floor.  LAUSD fails to make a prima facie showing on
this issue.
 
            3.
Actual or Constructive Notice
            
            A public entity is only liable if
the “[t]he public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous
condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have
taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”  (Gov. Code, § 835(b).)



            a.  LAUSD Did Not Have Actual Notice
 
A public entity has actual notice
of a dangerous condition if it has actual knowledge of the existence of the
condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2(a).)  “To establish actual notice, ‘[t]here must be
some evidence that the employees had knowledge of the particular dangerous
condition in question’; ‘it is not enough to show that the [public entity’s]
employees had a general knowledge’ that the condition can sometimes occur.
[Citation.]”  (Martinez v. City of
Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519.)
 
LAUSD submits the Declarations of
Carlos Carrillo and Dai Shalon Jordan to show LAUSD did not have actual notice
of the spill.  Mr. Carrillo was the
Buildings and Grounds worker of the Premises. 
(Carrillo Decl., ¶ 1.)  Mr. Carrillo was working on the Premises on
the day of the incident.  (Carrillo
Decl., ¶ 6.)  Mr. Carrillo did not observe any spills or
other debris on the main hallway floor, nor did he receive any complaints about
spills or debris in the hallway. 
(Carrillo Decl., ¶¶ 9,
12, 13.)  Further, Ms. Jordan walked
through the main hallway 15-20 minutes before 4:00 p.m. (around the time the
event ended, and Plaintiff proceeded to exit the Premises through the main
hallway).  Ms. Jordan states she did not
see any slipping hazards in the main hallway. 
(Jordan Decl., ¶ 13.)  As such, LAUSD did not have actual notice of
the spill.  
 
The burden shifts. 
 
Plaintiff has no evidence to the
contrary and does not resist the foregoing conclusion.
 
                        b. 
LAUSD Did Not Have Constructive Notice
 
            To
establish constructive notice under section 835.2, subdivision (b), a plaintiff
must show the dangerous condition “existed for such a period of time and was of
such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care,
should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character.”  Put another way, “[a] claim for constructive
notice has two threshold elements. [Citation.] A plaintiff must establish that
the dangerous condition has existed for a sufficient period of time and that
the dangerous condition was obvious.” (Heskel v. City of San Diego
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 320 (Heskel).)  The defect must be “sufficiently obvious,
conspicuous, and notorious that a public entity should be charged with
knowledge of the defect[.]” (Martinez, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 521; Van Dorn v. San Francisco
(1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 714, 719 [courts construing “obviousness” for the purpose
of evaluating whether a public entity may be liable for failing to cure a
dangerous condition have suggested the condition must be “conspicuous or
notorious.”].)
 
            Although the conspicuousness of the
condition and the length of time it existed are normally questions of fact for
resolution by the jury, they may be resolved as matter of law where the
plaintiff’s evidence as to either element is legally insufficient. (Kotronakis v. City & County of San Francisco
(1961) 192 Cal.App.2d 624, 629 [jury verdict for plaintiff reversed where there
was no evidence the puddle of vomit in which plaintiff slipped had been on the
sidewalk longer than overnight]; Heskel, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 318-319, 321 [summary judgment proper where plaintiff failed to provide
evidence to rebut the City’s showing the condition was not obvious].) Where the
plaintiff fails to present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either
element, the claim is deficient as a matter of law.  (Heskel, 227 Cal.App.4th at p.
317.)
 
            Here,
LAUSD carries its burden to demonstrate Plaintiff lacked evidence as to the
essential element of obviousness. (Heskel, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p.
321.)  LAUSD presented evidence that the spill
in the hallway was not obvious.  At her deposition, when Plaintiff was asked
whether she noticed anything about the area where she fell, Plaintiff answered,
“No. No. It  had to have been water,
because it was all on my pants and on my butt when I fell.  So I didn’t see it, because the floors are
clear.  So I wouldn’t have been able to
see anything.”  (Plaintiff’s Depo., p.
55: 16-22.)  When asked to describe the
liquid, Plaintiff stated it was “clear, because when I got up, I looked on the
floor.  It wasn’t nothing colorful.”  (Id. at p. 57-20:23.)  Plaintiff could not describe how much water
was on the floor, i.e., whether it was a puddle or droplets.  (Id. at pp. 57:24-58:3.)  Plaintiff confirmed she was not distracted by
anyone or anything at the time of the incident. 
(Id. at p. 64:15-16.)  Plaintiff
did not take any pictures of the area where she fell. (Id. at p.
67:1-3.)  Plaintiff’s testimony supports
the conclusion the spill was not obvious. 
 
Nor did anyone else notice or report the spill.  Maintenance worker Carlos Carrillo did not
see any spills, debris, food, liquid, trash or other items on the floor.  School principal Dai Shalon Jordan walked
through the main hallway approximately 15-20 minutes before 4:00 p.m. and did
not see any material that could be a slip, trip, or fall hazard.  LAUSD is not aware of any complaints made
regarding slip and falls in the main hallway prior to Plaintiff’s slip and
fall.  
 
            Case law supports LAUSD’s position.  In Heskel, the plaintiff tripped over the protruding base
of a hollow metal post that was cemented into a city sidewalk.  The post was not more than a few inches in
height.  (Id. at pp.
315–316.)  The Court of Appeal upheld the
trial court's grant of summary judgment, finding that the defendant city had
met its burden of proof and that the plaintiff had failed to demonstrate the
obvious nature of the condition. (Id. at p. 321.) The defendant city had presented two
declarations from city employees averring that a search of the city’s databases
contained no reports or complaints having been made regarding the condition.  Nor were there any reports of a downed street
sign.  (Id. at pp. 318–319.)  The city further provided a declaration of a
work crew supervisor stating that none of the workers had reported a downed
street sign or the existence of a metal post while working in the subject area.
(Id. at
p. 319.)  The Heskel
court found that the declarations constituted substantial evidence to show that
the condition was not obvious, shifting the burden to the plaintiff.  (Ibid.)
 
            In opposition, the plaintiff
provided declarations from himself and another witness showing that the metal
post had been there for over a year, as well as photographs of the post. (Heskel, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p.
320.) The court found that this evidence was insufficient to create a triable
issue of material fact as to the obviousness of the condition. (Ibid.) The declarations
offered by the plaintiff merely explained how long the structure had been
present and how the plaintiff's fall had occurred.  Nothing in the evidence showed how visible the
condition was from the public street nor the size of the condition.  (Ibid.)  Although the
plaintiff provided pictures of the condition, the images were of poor quality,
and the court concluded, “[t]he pictures show a condition that was roughly a
few inches in height.  Evidence of a
condition of that nature, without more, is not a prima facie showing that the
condition was obvious.” (Ibid.)  The Heskel court upheld the
trial court's grant of summary judgment for the defendant city based on the
condition’s lack of obviousness.  (Id. at p. 321.)[6]  
 
            The burden shifts.
 
            Plaintiff fails to rebut LAUSD’s evidence.  Plaintiff does not present any evidence, direct or circumstantial, that the dangerous condition
was obvious, conspicuous, or notorious such that the entity should be charged
with constructive knowledge.  To the
contrary, as discussed above, no one saw it, no one reported it.  Indeed, as Plaintiff stated, “… I was on my
way out.  Did not see any liquid.  If I would have seen the liquid, I would have
avoided it, but you couldn’t see anything on the floor.”  (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 64:4-8; see also Plaintiff’s Depo., pp. 55: 16-22; 57:12-58:3;
64:15-16; 67:1-3.) [7]     
            To sum up, LAUSD carried its burden to
demonstrate that Plaintiff lacked evidence on an essential element: obviousness.
 The burden shifted to Plaintiff to show either
the existing evidence created a reasonable inference that the condition was
obvious or to present additional evidence proving that element.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (c), (p)(1).)  Plaintiff did neither.  Because Plaintiff failed to establish the requisite
element of obviousness, her claim fails as a matter of law.  (Heskel, supra, at p. 315.) 
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion
for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
Moving party to give notice.   
 
 
Dated:   October 16,
2023                        ___________________________________
                                                                        Kerry Bensinger
                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative
as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 




