 Case Number:  21STCV26396    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
16, 2023                   TRIAL DATE: 
April 16, 2024
 
CASE:                                Vahe Karapet v. Negdeh Yaghoubian, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV26396
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Indian Harbor Insurance Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On July 19, 2021, Plaintiff, Vahe Karapet, filed a form
complaint against Defendants, Nejdeh Yaghoubian (“Yaghoubian”), Nancy Gaignard
(“Gaignard”), and Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), for injuries Plaintiff sustained in an
August 8, 2019 motor vehicle accident.  Plaintiff
alleges she was a passenger in a Lyft vehicle driven by Gaignard when
Yaghoubian weaved through traffic in his vehicle and side swiped Gaignard’s
vehicle.  Plaintiff asserts causes of action for General Negligence and
Motor Vehicle against all defendants.  At the time of the incident, Indian
Harbor Insurance Company (“Indian Harbor”) provided automobile liability
insurance for Lyft and its drivers using while using the Lyft application.
 
Gaignard was served with the summons and complaint on
December 13, 2021.  However, Gaignard has
not appeared in this action and is now at risk of having her default
taken.  Accordingly, Indian Harbor filed
this motion for leave to intervene in this matter and defend against liability
and damages.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
“A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene
by noticed motion or ex parte application.  The petition shall include a
copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and
set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (c).) 
 
“The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty
to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions
is satisfied: 
 
(A)¿A
provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
(B)¿The
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability
to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.”  
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (d)(1).)
 
Where an employee brings an action for damages proximately
caused by a third person, an employer who pays or becomes obligated to pay
compensation, or salary in lieu of compensation, may likewise make a claim or
bring an action against the third person.  (Lab. Code § 3852.) 
“[T]he employer may recover in the same suit, in addition to the total amount
of compensation, damages for which he or she was liable including all salary,
wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the employee or to his or her
dependents.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“A workers’ compensation carrier is authorized to attempt
recovery of benefits paid either through the maintenance of an independent
action (Lab. Code § 3852), intervention in the employee’s action (Lab. Code §
3853), or assertion of lien rights in the employee’s recovery (Lab. Code §
3856, subd. (b).)”  (Catello v. I.T.T. General Controls (1984) 152
Cal.App.3d 1009, 1015, fn. 7.) 
 
If leave to intervene is granted by the court, the
intervenor shall separately file the complaint in intervention and serve notice
of the court’s decision” to parties who have appeared. (Code Civ. Proc. § 387,
subd. (e).) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Indian Harbor argues leave to intervene should be granted
because Gaignard has not appeared in this action and is unlocatable.  Consequently, Gaignard is at risk of default
and default judgment.  Further, a default
judgment against Gaignard would bind Indian Harbor under to Insurance Code
section 11580.  Thus, Indian Harbor seeks
to protect its own interests as an insurer by contesting Gaignard’s alleged
liability and the amount of damages, if any.  
 
Indian Harbor demonstrates its right to intervene. ¿Indian
Harbor offers a declaration from Indian Harbor’s claim representative who
confirms the foregoing.¿ (See Declaration of Ron Walker.)¿ Indian Harbor also
includes a copy of the proposed complaint-in-intervention to be
filed.   
 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
            The unopposed
motion is GRANTED.  Intervenor is ordered
to file its Complaint-in Intervention within five (5) court days of this Order.
  
 
            Given the
Court’s ruling, and as indicated in the Court’s 9/7/22 Minute Order, Lyft’s
motion to compel arbitration is CONTINUED to November 9, 2023 at 1:30 PM to
allow Indian Harbor to review Lyft’s motion to compel arbitration.  Indian Harbor may file an opposition no later
than 9 court days before the November 9, 2023 hearing.  Lyft may file a reply no later than 4 court
days before the hearing.
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
Dated:   October 16,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 