 Case Number:  19STCV06544    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
16, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  December 1, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Colin Andrew Hancock v. Barbara Dybnis, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV06544
 





















 
MOTION
FOR COURT ORDER AUTHORIZING RELEASE OF DOCUMENTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Barbara Dybnis
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Colin
Andrew Hancock
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION 
 
            On
February 27, 2019, Plaintiff, Colin Andrew Hancock, initiated this action
against Defendant, Barbara Dybnis, arising from an October 22, 2018 motor
vehicle accident involving a motorcycle.  
            
            On
July 23, 2021, Defendant served a deposition subpoena for the production of
business records (the “Subpoena”) on nonparty Christensen Hsu Sipes, LLP and/or
Elizabeth Trent Schaus (hereafter, “CHS”). 
The Subpoena seeks documents regarding a 2015 motor vehicle accident
involving Plaintiff and which resulted in a lawsuit captioned Hancock v.
Cosco Fire Protection, Inc. (LASC Case No. BC663709) (the “Cosco Fire
Action”).  Some of the injuries that
Plaintiff suffered in the 2015 accident are related to the injuries suffered in
the accident that is the subject of this litigation.  CHS handled the defense of Cosco Fire
Protection, Inc. in the Cosco Fire Action.  CHS objected to the subpoena.
 
            On
December 9, 2021, Defendant filed a motion to compel CHS to produce documents
pursuant to the Subpoena.  The Court
denied the motion without prejudice due to defects with service of the
motion.  The Court also noted that parts
of the Subpoena may not be enforceable because CHS was not the “custodian” of
some of the documents that Defendant sought, such as deposition transcripts and
medical records.  The Court also denied
Defendant’s alternative request to compel Plaintiff to authorize the release of
non-privileged documents from CHS.
 
            On
August 15, 2023, Defendant re-filed the motion to compel CHS to produce
documents pursuant to the Subpoena. 
Defendant corrected the defect with service by personally serving CHS
with this motion.  
 
            Nonparty CHS has filed the Declaration
of Michael D. Hirsch in opposition.  
 
            Defendant
replies.
            
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            A
party is entitled to obtain discovery regarding any non-privileged matter that
is relevant to the subject matter of the action.  (Code of Civil Procedure § 2017.010.)  A party seeking discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral
deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of
business records.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  If a nonparty
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2024.480, 2025.480.)¿¿¿ 
 
            If
the nonparty deponent is a natural person, any person may serve the subpoena by
personal delivery of a copy of it to that person.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (b)(1).)¿ Personal service of any deposition subpoena is
effective to require the personal attendance and testimony of the nonparty
deponent, if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd.
(c)(1).)¿¿¿ 
 
            “A
written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to
a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing
from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent
unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic
service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition
record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Evidence
Code section 1561 requires, in relevant part, that the business records sought
by a deposition subpoena “be accompanied by the affidavit of the custodian or
other qualified witness, stating ... the affiant is the duly authorized
custodian of the records or other qualified witness and has authority to
certify the records.”  (Evid. Code, 1561,
subd. (a)(1).)  A deposition subpoena for
business records is to be “directed to the custodian of those records or
another person qualified to certify the records.”  (Cooley v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1044, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (c).)
            
            Defendant
seeks to compel nonparty CHS to comply with a subpoena for business records.  The Subpoena seeks records from the Cosco
Fire Action, including medical records, deposition transcripts, court
transcripts, and court records.  It is
uncontested that CHS is not the “custodian” of these, and possibly other records,
sought by the Subpoena.  Because CHS is
not the custodian of records, under Cooley, supra, Defendant is
not entitled to an order compelling CHS to comply with the entirety of the
Subpoena.  
 
            In
Cooley, the appellate court considered the very issue presented
here: whether a nonparty may be compelled to produce business records pursuant
to a properly served subpoena for business records when the nonparty did not
prepare or generate the records sought.  The
Cooley court held enforcement of such a subpoena is error.  This is so because a nonparty who merely
possesses business records obtained from some other source cannot execute an
affidavit required by Evidence Code section 1561.  Business records sought by a deposition
subpoena must “be accompanied by the affidavit of the custodian or other
qualified witness, stating ... the affiant is the duly authorized custodian of
the records or other qualified witness and has authority to certify the
records.”  (Evid. Code, 1561, subd.
(a)(1).)  The Cooley court
reasoned that “the custodian of records or other qualified witness
contemplated by Evidence Code section 1561 must also be able to attest to
various attributes of the records relevant to their authenticity and
trustworthiness.  As such, execution of a
section 1561 affidavit is more than simply a clerical task.”  (Cooley, 140 Cal.App.4th at p.
1044.)
 
            Here,
Defendant’s subpoena seeks the following records from CHS: 
 
Any non-privileged documents
related to the action/litigation ... entitled Colin Andrew Hancock v. Cosco
Fire Protection, Inc. et al. filed on or about June 6, 2017 including, but not
limited to, all pleadings, discovery, deposition transcripts, medical records,
court transcripts/records and/or any non-privileged correspondence related to
Colin Andrew Hancock. 
(Kang Decl., Ex. B.)
 
            Here,
CHS is not the custodian of records for deposition transcripts, medical
records, court transcripts, or court records.   As
such, CHS cannot provide the attestation under Evidence Code section 1561.  (Cooley, supra, 140
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1044.)  To the extent the
Subpoena seeks business records that CHS did not produce or generate and for
which it cannot provide a EC 1561 affidavit, the Court cannot compel CHS’s compliance
with the Subpoena.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Where
CHS can provide non-privileged documents supported by an Evidence Code section
1561 affidavit, the motion to compel is granted.  Otherwise, the motion to compel is denied.  CHS is to provide any responsive documents within
30 days.  
 
            Defendant
is to pay CHS for the costs related to producing documents responsive to the Subpoena,
including CHS’s reasonable attorney’s fees related to sorting through the five
boxes of documents to locate the responsive documents and costs of reproduction
as discussed in CCP section 1563.  Because
the subpoena is silent, as is the motion, with respect to electrically stored
information, the scope of the Order does not include electronically stored information.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 16,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 