 Case Number:  20STCV44623    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
16, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  December 8, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Alma Lorena Castro, et al. v. Bodega Latina Corporation
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV44623
 





















 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Alma Lorena Castro
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Bodega
Latina Corporation
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On November 20, 2020, Plaintiffs, Alma Lorena Castro and
Maria de la Rosa, initiated this action against Defendant, Bodega Latina
Corporation dba El Super, arising from two July 18, 2020 slip and fall
incidents.  
 
            On May 3,
2021, Defendant filed motions to compel Ms. Castro’s responses to the First Set
of Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for
Production.  The Court granted the
motions.  Thereafter, Ms. Castro served
responses to the Form and Special Interrogatories only.  
 
            Having not
received Ms. Castro’s responses to the Request for Production, Defendant filed
a motion to compel Ms. Castro’s compliance. 
The Court granted the motion on December 12, 2022.  Ms. Castro did not serve the responses
despite a court order so directing.  
 
            On January
30, 2023, Defendant filed a motion that appeared to request an order to compel
Ms. Castro’s compliance and for terminating sanctions.  Given the lack of clarity, on March 21, 2023,
the Court continued the hearing and directed Defendant to re-file and re-serve
their motion.
 
            On March
23, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for terminating sanctions.  The motion was based on Ms. Castro’s failure
to serve responses to the Request for Production.  The Court granted the motion on April 26,
2023, and dismissed Ms. Castro’s complaint against Defendant.  Plaintiff did not file opposition or appear
at the hearing.
 
            On May 12,
2023, Ms. Castro filed this motion to set aside the dismissal.  Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b) provides that a court may “relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.”  In addition, a court must vacate a default or
dismissal when a motion for relief under Section 473, subdivision (b) is filed
timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless the court finds
that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)   
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than six months had elapsed from the
entry of default, and hence relief under section 473 was unavailable”]; People
v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 712, 721 [motion for
relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months”].)   
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
“The policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried
upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a party who, regardless of the
merits of his case, attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise,
inadvertence or neglect of his adversary.” 
(Palmer v. Moore (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 134, 142.)
 
Ms. Castro argues she is entitled to mandatory relief from
dismissal.  In support, Ms. Castro offers
the declaration of her counsel, Kenneth Yeager, who states the dismissal was
due to his mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect in failing to calendar
the hearing date for Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions.  (Yeager Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.)  Mr. Yeager further represents that Defendant
misrepresents not having received Ms. Castro’s discovery responses, which were
served by email and postal mail.  (Yeager
Decl., ¶ 7.)  Mr. Yeager also attaches a
copy of Ms. Castro’s responses to Defendant’s Request for Production, Set One.  (See Yeager Decl., Ex. 5.)  The responses were verified on June 2, 2021.[1]  (Id.)
 
Defendant argues the motion should be denied because Mr.
Yeager appeared for the March 21, 2023 hearing for Defendant’s terminating
sanctions motion.  At that hearing, the
Court stated it would continue the hearing to allow Defendant to re-file and
re-serve their motion.  As such, Mr.
Yeager knew the date of the continued hearing. 
Further, Defendant points out there is no proof of service attached to
Ms. Castro’s discovery responses.  As
such, there is no proof that Plaintiff served the responses at all.  
 
Defendant is correct as to the two points.  Mr. Yeager appeared at the March 21, 2023
hearing and proof of service is not attached to Ms. Castro’s responses to the
Request for Production.  Nonetheless, Plaintiff
is entitled to relief.  Mr. Yeager’s
representation that he failed to calendar the April 26, 2023 hearing date is
not at odds with his appearance at the March 21, 2023 hearing.   As to
Ms. Castro’s discovery responses, she has now submitted them as part of her
motion.  Further, as it is undisputed that
Ms. Castro timely sought relief roughly two weeks after the Court dismissed her
complaint, the Court must grant this motion. 
A court must vacate a default or
dismissal when a motion for relief under Section 473, subdivision (b) is filed
timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless the court finds
that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)  
 
Here, the Court finds the
dismissal was entered due to Mr. Yeager’s mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.  Given
the policy favoring disposition of cases upon their merits and Mr. Yeager’s averments
in support of a timely motion for relief, Ms. Castro is entitled to an order
vacating the dismissal.  Defendant’s arguments
to the contrary are not persuasive.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion to set aside dismissal is GRANTED.  The dismissal of Plaintiff Alma Lorena
Castro’s Complaint on April 26, 2023 is VACATED.  Plaintiff is to file proof of service of her
discovery responses to Defendant’s Request for Production, Set, One, within 5
days of this order.
 
            The
matter is placed back on the trial calendar.  The new trial date is ___________ at 8:30 am;
the Final Status Conference is ___________ at 10 am; all discovery, motion, and expert-related
completion dates are continued to the new trial date.[2][AS1] 
            Moving
party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   October 16,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


