  Case Number:  BP063500    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
In the Matter
of the Mark Hughes Family Trust, dated September 3, 1987, as amended 
Case No.
BP063500
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS
ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE OF BENEFICIARY AND OF FORMER TRUSTEES IN RE: ATTORNEY’S FEES
PHASE OF TRIAL ON BENEFICIARY’S CLAIMS OF SURCHARGE RE: TOWER GROVE 
Date:
October 16, 2023, 8:30 a.m. 
 
Beneficiary Motion No. 1: 
 
          By this motion, Beneficiary seeks to
exclude any evidence related to whether the 2013 Settlement Agreement by and
between, among other parties, Former Trustees and entities then under the
control of Charles Dickens, including the debtor Tower Park Properties (“TPP”),
in connection with the pending bankruptcy proceeding of that entity, was a
“good deal.” 
          Former Trustees contend that because
the Settlement Agreement was a “good deal,” they could not have reasonably
anticipated that Beneficiary and FTI would have objected to the Bankruptcy
Court approving that agreement, and that therefore the objections to the Settlement
Agreement were a “superseding cause” for all further attorneys’ fees, thereby cutting
off any liability they might have had for those. Beneficiary argues that the
Court does not need to determine whether the Agreement was or was not a good
deal (part of which agreement the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in
any event found to be void) because the objections to the Settlement Agreement
were reasonably foreseeable when Former Trustees sold Tower Grove to TPP when
they knew Dickens did not have the ability to repay what amounts the entity had
borrowed from Former Trustees to purchase the property or the financial means
or experience to develop it. 
          In their Opposition to the Motion,
Former Trustees assert four principal arguments: 
          First, the motion is improper because
it is effectively a motion for reconsideration of the order denying
Beneficiary’s motion for summary adjudication on the same issue; that FTI’s
Objections to the Settlement Agreement were reasonably foreseeable (thereby
defeating Former Trustees’ “intervening acts’ defense.) This Court ruled
already on the summary adjudication motion that whether the Settlement
Agreement was or was not a bad deal is a factual question and that it could not
hold there was “no room for a reasonable difference of opinion” that FTI would
necessarily object to approval of that agreement.
          Second, as indicated above, whether
the Objections to the Settlement Agreement were reasonably foreseeable is a
question of fact, not of law. A motion in limine may not be used as a
substitute for a dispositive statutory motion. (McMillin Cos. V. American
Safety Indemnity Co. (2105) 233 Cal.App.4th 518, 541) 
          Third, substantively, whether the
Settlement Agreement was a “good deal” is relevant to whether it was reasonably
foreseeable that FTI would object to approval of the Agreement. “The
determination of whether the intervening act is foreseeable is a question of
fact unless under the undisputed facts there is no room for a reasonable
difference of opinion.” (Schrimscher v. Bryson (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 660,
664) 
-         
FTI was appointed as trustee ad litem to promote
or forestall approval of the Agreement. See Brewer v. Teano
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1024, 1037 (act of independent public officer
breaks chain of causation) 
-         
The Bankruptcy Court both approved the
Agreement, as well as found FTI had breached the provision of the Agreement
that it cooperate with approval of the Agreement by its objecting to approval. 
-         
Further, Beneficiary through his Guardian had
earlier consented to sale of Tower Grove for $23.75 million in cash and
therefore it would have been reasonable to conclude that FTI would have agreed
to a sale of Tower Grove for $62.5 million in cash – as provided for by the
Agreement. Beneficiary’s reliance on the e-mail from former counsel for Former
Trustees is irrelevant because foreseeability is determined as of the earlier
sale date and moreover can be read in different ways. 
-         
The damages Beneficiary seeks are for wrongful
actions by FTI, not Former Trustees. Former Trustees appealed from the approval
order because it did not believe the Agreement was in the best interests of the
Trust. 
          Finally, even if whether the
Agreement was a good deal is irrelevant to breaking the chain of causation for
damages, this subject is still relevant to other defense of Former Trustees;
specifically, failure of duty to mitigate, unclean hands and comparative
negligence. 
          In his Reply, Beneficiary argues that
the foreseeability of objections to approval of the Settlement Agreement can be
determined without also hearing evidence as to the merits of the Agreement. He
argues also that this requested ruling would not go to the merits of Former
Trustees’ defense.  
           After review of these competing
arguments, the Court initially rejects Former Trustees’ argument that this
motion in limine is an improper motion for reconsideration of the order denying
Beneficiary’s motion for summary adjudication. While there are overlapping
issues, the relief sought here is slightly different and the governing statutes
also differ. 
          On the other hand, the Court agrees
with Forner Trustees that foreseeability is primarily a factual question and
that this Court already rejected the possibility that it could be decided as a
matter of law in concluding that a trier of fact may have found that there was
room for a difference of opinion concerning whether to enter into the
Settlement Agreement. As such, the Court cannot prior to trial simply exclude
all evidence as to any merits to that agreement as irrelevant. 
          The Court rejects Beneficiary’s
argument that the Court can decide foreseeability without hearing evidence as
to the merits of the Agreement: While from the evidence the Court has already
heard it may have been inevitable that TPP would seek a modification of the
loan, and or file bankruptcy, the Court cannot now conclude without hearing
evidence from what occurred when the Settlement Agreement was entered into whether
any agreement that was reached would not have been in the Trust’s best
interests. The Court will need to hear the pros and cons concerning the Trust’s
options at that time -in the context of a bankruptcy reorganization controlled
by a different set of rules than under state law. 
          In addition, the Court needs to
assess if the Agreement reached merely protected Former Trustees’ own individual
interests, as Beneficiary is claiming, or also sought to mitigate the loss the
Trust incurred by Forner Trustees having entered into an agreement with Dickens
in the first place. The Court cannot rule - without first hearing both sides’
evidence - that all possible agreements Former Trustees could reach with
Dickens or TPP concerning future control of the Property would not be in the
Trust’s best interests. For example, the Court does not know if investors other
than Dickens were then involved or what equity they might have added that would
have altered Dickens’ own inability to fund development of the property and
repay what was owed. 
          Further, the Court needs to hear what
FTI, as the Court appointed trustee ad litem, considered to be the best way to
move forward. The Court has not heard that evidence to date, except for certain
deposition testimony that did not provide the Court a clear picture of its
position. Granting this motion would effectively prevent Former Trustees from presenting
seemingly a principal part of its defense.  
DENIED
 
Beneficiary Motion No. 2: 
 
          By this motion, Beneficiary seeks to
exclude testimony of Former Trustees’ designated expert, Grant Steifel, as to the
excessive amount allegedly charged by attorneys for “internal conferencing,”
research and strategy where according to Beneficiary he (1) has no opinion on the
amount of time they should have spent, the value or quality of the work
performed or regarding the rates charged and (2) does not know about the
substance and history of this litigation beyond a broad outline. His opinion
was derived from putting fees into categories of work and comparing those with
other (non-trust) matters he has worked on to determine if they were excessive.
 Beneficiary’s objection is that because the
opinion is without foundation, it would not “assist the Court.” 
          In their Opposition, Former Trustees assert
that Steifel elected not to give an opinion as to the amount of time that
should have been spent precisely because Beneficiary’s expert, Andree Jardini,
has been criticized by other trial courts for having given an opinion as to
what the fees should be (as opposed to opining why the fees claimed are
unreasonable or excessive.) In turn, they argue that Beneficiary cannot argue
that Steifel may not give an opinion as to the excessiveness of certain fees where
this was exactly what Jardini does when hired by a party challenging a fee
request. Steifel does not need to have an opinion about the quality of the work
or the rates because his opinions do not concern those matters. In turn, they
argue that he is not required to have “intimate knowledge” of the underlying
matter to be able to give opinions about the amount of time spent by different
lawyers or as to the tasks billed, citing Naples Restaurant v. Coberly Ford
(1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 881, 884, as well as multiple unpublished trial court
decisions, for the proposition that an overly specific objection to the basis
for expert testimony is not a basis to exclude expert testimony which can be
sufficiently tested by cross-examination. 
          Former Trustees also seek to rebut
the claims that Steifel’s opinions are without foundation and would not “assist
the Court” to meet the requirements of Evidence Code sec. 801: Steifel has
allegedly personally reviewed the 12,000 plus billing entries representing
almost 24,000 hours of billable time. In that review, he has “unblocked” block
billing representing multiple tasks and analyzed the levels of “transient
timekeepers,” as well as internal lawyer conferencing, research or for clerical
or overhead matters. In addition, he has assembled schedules and a proposed
model to determine the reasonableness of the fees – consistent with his
specialty in fee audits as to which he has provided expert testimony in more
than 130 cases previously.   
          In his Reply, Beneficiary contends
that Steifel’s fee model was not disclosed until submitting his direct
testimony declaration and well after his deposition when he testified that he
had no such opinion, citing Kennemur v. State of Calif. (1982) 133
Cal.App.3d 907, 920. They also cite to CCP sec. 2034.300 requiring that an
unproduced report be excluded. Similarly, they contend that when his deposition
was taken, he did not know about the details of the case and hence cannot now
give opinions based on this newly acquired information. Finally, he argues that
the references to Jardini are inaccurate. Ultimately, he contends Steifel’s
opinions in the abstract stated at his deposition lack the necessary foundation,
including as required under Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.5(b),
concerning the reasonableness of fees.  
          After review of these arguments, the
Court finds that the motion essentially points to reasons why the Court should
not give any weight to Steifel’s claims. It appears that Steifel is qualified
to give opinions concerning the reasonableness of the fees – an important issue
at this trial – and that the way he assembled his opinions or the level of his
understanding of the underlying litigation does not provide a sufficient basis
to exclude them altogether. That said, the Court is concerned with the late
production of a report with different opinions than stated at his deposition –
that was raised for the first time in the Reply (and which the Court
understands could not have been raised earlier) - and will hear from both
parties on this issue when hearing objections to the declaration testimony at
time of trial – which issue the Court is not now deciding. 
DENIED 
 
Former Trustees’ Motion No. 1:

 
          By this motion, Former Trustees seek
to exclude or limit Beneficiary’s rebuttal expert Jardini testifying as to the
reasonableness of Beneficiary’s attorney’s fees on several grounds: 
          First, Jardini’s opinion lacks
foundation because he allegedly did not review the individual entries on the
invoices and instead relied on a summary his staff assembled, referred to as
the “Outline of Services. (“Outline”)” The Outline does not include the number
of hours for services. In support of this claim, Former Trustees point to decisions
of other courts that rejected Jardini’s expert opinions on reasonableness of
fees as lacking in foundation, as well as for other reasons, including lack of
methodology. 
          Second, Jardini’s opinion as to Former
Trustees’ fees exceeds what he is permitted to testify to as a rebuttal
witness, under CCP sec. 2034.280(a), where Former Trustees’ fee expert,
Steifel, did not give any opinion as to Former Trustees’ fees. Moreover,
relatedly, comparison of one firm with another firm even in the same case may
not be fair given differing roles and other factors. In turn, comparing how one
firm defended Former Trustees in this case with what the firms representing FTI
did in the post-removal litigation and bankruptcy proceedings with TPP is not valid.
The context of these cases is wholly different.  
          Third, Jardini’s opinion as to
reasonableness of fees incurred by FTI and Beneficiary with Winston
& Strawn, Greenberg Traurig and the firms at which Richard Cleary practiced
again exceeds what he is permitted to testify to as a rebuttal witness, where Steifel
is not testifying to the reasonableness of their fees, instead only testifying
to the excessiveness of certain categories of fees (such as attorney
conferences and research) and the inefficiencies created by use of “transient
timekeepers.”   
           In his Opposition, Beneficiary responds
to these points, as follows:
          First, Jardini used the Outline, but
also reviewed all the underlying billing entries. The Outline merely assisted
him in preparation of his opinion. Use of staff allowed him to provide a more reasonably
priced audit than Steifel. Unlike Steifel, Jardini did familiarize himself with
the details of the underlying litigation. The cases where Jardini was
criticized were ones where he was challenging fees, not as here giving an
opinion of reasonableness. Moreover, such concerns go to the weight to be given
to his opinion, not to its admissibility as is the focus of a motion in limine,
citing IRMO Winternitz (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 644, 653, Bermudez
v. Ciolek (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1340, n. 11. 
          Second and Third, Former Trustees
cannot consistently contend that Jardini can only testify as a rebuttal witness
where in the earlier valuation phase of trial they argued that their rebuttal
expert, Robert Gutzman, should be able to testify in support of their case in
chief. In any event, Jardini’s opinions are offered to rebut Steifel on matters
he failed to consider, including the reasonableness of the fees under State Bar
Rule 1.5. Reasonableness of fees is a rebuttal issue that goes to the
credibility of the opinion, not an issue outside the scope of the opinions
Steifel offered. 
          In their Reply, Former Trustees again
rely on their argument that Jardini relied on a summary, not the entries
themselves. In turn, they contend Beneficiary through its witness list
designation is trying to go beyond the scope of a rebuttal opinion. Beneficiary
should not be able to give a reasonableness opinion when Steifel did not do so.

          Consistent with its ruling on
Beneficiary’s motion in limine to exclude Steifel’s testimony, the Court also
concludes that Former Trustees’ arguments about Jardini’s opinions likewise go
to their weight; however much they try to argue that the Court should conclude
they are without foundation and should be wholly excluded. Whether it was
sufficient for Jardini to rely on his staff’s compilation will depend on what
his staff did exactly and their office procedures. The Court still must hear
that foundation testimony. 
          Pech v. Morgan (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 841, 849 & 856 is instructive in this regard: In Pech,
the Court found that “factually, Jardini’s opinion about the reasonableness of
fees is further undermined because he admitted that he did not have ‘the
opportunity to perform a complete and thorough analysis of each invoice presented.’”
(Emphasis added) Hence, while there may be question as to what weight the Court
should give his opinion, the Peck court still upheld the trial court’s having
considered his opinion and that she gave it some weight even if she did not
find it persuasive.  
          Where, however, Steifel gave no
opinion as to Former Trustees’ fees, Jardini should not be able to give an
opinion as to those. There is nothing to rebut. By contrast, as to the
reasonableness of Beneficiary and FTI’s fees, initially the Court recognizes
that Jardini states such opinions are separate from his rebuttal opinion.
Nonetheless, the Court finds that Former Trustees’ having elected to ask Steifel
to give only an opinion as to certain issues as to the fees, rather than as to
the fees overall, not preclude Beneficiary from countering those opinions by
opining that the fees are still reasonable as w whole. This is within the scope
of rebuttal. Former Trustees cannot limit the examination of fees solely on the
issues they believe show the fees were too high. Beneficiary can still argue
why they are nonetheless reasonable. 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART 
 
Former Trustees’ Motion No. 2:

 
          By this motion, Former Trustees seek
to exclude any claim for attorney fee damages for which Beneficiary failed to
produce any supporting documents in discovery, as he had agreed to do.  
          They contend that Beneficiary had
previously identified in a report to the Court that he was seeking for this Tower
Grove trial total fees of $17,042.302.46, comprised of twelve of fifteen
separate matters the Winston & Strawn (“W&S”) law firm handled. However,
Beneficiary has produced W&S invoices that total $14,376,897, several
million dollars less. Former Trustees therefore seek to exclude any claim for W&S
fees that exceed $14,376,89. Relatedly, Beneficiary contends it is now withdrawing
its claim of fees for W&S to $15,020,296.49. Former Trustees contend that Beneficiary
has not submitted any invoices for matters 8, 10 or 12.  Finally, they contend that any claims based on
invoices they received on September 21, 2023 (for matters 13, 14 and 15 should
be excluded.)  
          In his Opposition, Beneficiary contends
Former Trustees received 96% of the invoices over two years ago in May 2021 and
that the balance of the invoices was for ones after the May 2021 response date
of the subpoena. As to those, Former Trustees failed to make any supplemental
demand. In any event, they were identified on the joint exhibit list (invoices from
May through September 2021) and have now been produced. There was no prejudice
to Former Trustees. Former Trustees have all invoices for all fees sought in
this trial. Those fees are $15,020,296.49 representing fees of $14,376,897.15
for invoices produced previously plus $643,399.34 for invoices after May 2021. The
$17,042,302.46 figure has been corrected. Unlike in the cases relied on by
Former Trustees, Beneficiary has not failed to respond to discovery or withheld
or concealed evidence. To the contrary, the production (by Beneficiary) of
evidence parties (Former Trustees) have known about is detrimental to the
merits of a case is not equivalent to prejudice, citing Gonzales v. Brennan
(1965) 238 Cal.App.2d 69, 75-76.  
          In their Reply, Former Trustees indicate
they made a supplemental request for documents “in late 2021,” shortly before
the close of discovery. In turn, they indicate prejudice because Steifel has
not had an opportunity to review those invoices they received on September 21,
2023. They therefore contend that these invoices which total $643,399 should be
excluded. 
          After review of these briefs, the
Court finds that Beneficiary should have produced the May through September
2021 invoices when they were requested in late 2021 – if they had them.
Beneficiary misstates what occurred in stating that these documents were not
requested previously. However, what the motion leaves unclear is whether
Beneficiary did have them or if the issue was that W&S (or FTI) had not
provided them to Beneficiary. It is not clear whether these invoices were in
Beneficiary’s possession at that time. Absent evidence Beneficiary was
withholding those invoices, imposing what would be effectively a significant
sanction by excluding their use at trial would not seem warranted. Moreover,
there is no evidence Steifel cannot now or before he testifies review those
invoices and supplement his report. The Court will allow him to testify at the
end of trial to have some time to do so. Hence, Former Trustees should suffer
no material prejudice by this late production. 
DENIED 
Former Trustees’ Motion No. 3:

 
          By this motion, Former Trustees seek
to exclude the claim for attorneys’ fees incurred by Greenberg Traurig on
behalf of Beneficiary in the sum of $1,835,357.65. The motion is made on two
grounds: 
          First, under the so-called American
rule, attorneys’ fees are not recoverable as either damages or           costs and must be borne by the
respective parties unless there is an agreement or statute providing otherwise.
(CCP sec. 1021) They rely on in the trust context for this proposition, Leader
v. Cords (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 1588, 1595 and Estate of Gump
(1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 111, 118.  
          Second, the fees incurred by
Greenberg Traurig were not paid by Beneficiary, but by FTI. They contend that
this was discretionary on the part of FTI, for which they have no
responsibility where the Trust instrument does not require trustees to pay
legal fees incurred by a beneficiary. This cost to the Trust was the result of
FTI’s action, not any action by Former Trustees. 
          In his Opposition, Beneficiary responds
as follows:
          First, the American Rule is not
applicable here. FTI - as admittedly payor of Beneficiary’s fees - was not a
party to the removal petition (brought by Beneficiary) and hence the American
Rule applicable to parties is not controlling. This trial is in any event not
about Beneficiary seeking recovery of his own fees as an item of costs of a prevailing
party but for recovery by the Trust of fees as damages based on breach
of fiduciary duty by Former Trustees under Civil Code sec. 3333, citing Oasis
West Realty v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.App.4th 811, 826 (fees can
be recoverable as damages in tort). Further, Beneficiary points to comments of
Judge Beckloff on p. 30 of the removal order as to the damages that would
likely be recoverable resulting from Former Trustees’ actions, as well as p. 14
of an order of February 6, 2012, on a petition for instructions that FTI was to
provide funding to Beneficiary for attorney’s fees. Hence, payment of fees to
Beneficiary by FTI was not discretionary on its part. 
          Second, even if the American Rule was
applicable, there is an applicable statute providing for fees: Probate Code
sec. 15645. Beneficiary argues that where Former Trustees refused his request
to resign and in the subsequent proceeding under Probate Code sec. 17200 they
are removed, the Court may in its discretion award reasonable fees.[1]  
          In their Reply, Former Trustees make
three basic points: 
          First, the Trust had no legal
obligation to pay Beneficiary’s fees. Specifically, they contend Beneficiary
has not presented any order requiring trustees to pay Beneficiary’s fees. 
          Second, Beneficiary cannot avoid the
American Rule by using a third person to recover those same fees that would not
otherwise be recoverable by the prevailing party.[2] 
          Third, Probate Code sec. 15645 is not
applicable here. They argue that Beneficiary has not met any of its three
requirements; first, that a request was made prior to filing of a petition for
removal that Former Trustees resign, second, that fees may only be sought under
that section in the removal proceeding itself, and third, that any such request
is untimely under Calif. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1702 – which provides that in
civil cases a motion for statutory fees must be brought within the time for
filing a notice of appeal.  
          After review of the foregoing, the
Court finds as follows:
          Initially, merely because Probate
Code sec. 17211 does not provide a basis for fees does not mean Beneficiary
cannot recover fees. Former Trustees’ reliance on Leader, supra, is
misplaced: In Leader, the Court determined whether Probate Code sec.
17211 applied in a limited way to contests based on the way a trustee accounted
for the trust’s assets and liabilities or also more broadly to whether the
trustee met his fiduciary duties in managing the trust. The Court reversed the
trial court for not permitting fees to a beneficiary challenging an account on
the latter basis; remanding to determine whether the opposition to the contest
was “unreasonable and in bad faith,” as required for recovery under sec. 17211.

          Leader is not on point: Here, to
the extent these fees were incurred in seeking the removal of Former Trustees (as
how the fees were incurred is not discussed in the motion), those were therefore
not incurred in challenging an accounting. Even though the removal was
indisputably based on breach of fiduciary duty, it was not in connection with
the contest of an accounting.[3] Hence,
recovery would not be permissible at least under sec. 17211. Beneficiary does
not argue otherwise. Indeed, he argues Leader is not applicable here
because it concerns a beneficiary seeking recovery of his own fees, not as here
to make the Trust whole.   
          Gump, supra, also does not
assist Former Trustees: In Gump, the Court reversed an order of
surcharge -- disallowing trustee fees as to assets for which there was no
evidence it mismanaged (even if there was evidence to justify a surcharge as to
one asset of the trust the trustee did mismanage.) The Court also affirmed the
denial of the beneficiary’s claim for attorneys’ fees based on the damage the
trustee had caused, as well as under a common benefit theory. The Court applied
CCP sec. 1021 in reaching its decision on the first point, noting the general
rule that ordinarily each side bears its own fees in a negligence case – as was
true there. In addition, significant here, the Court of Appeal found the trial
court properly exercised its discretion in denying recovery under a common
benefit theory where the beneficiaries challenging the trustee actions
represented five out of the six beneficiaries and the sixth beneficiary’s
interest had at most an 11% interest in the increased recovery. Here, where
Beneficiary is the sole beneficiary, similarly a common benefit theory would
not be available. 
          That said, Gump addresses
neither that the fees sought here as damages and in turn that they are
sought not per se for Beneficiary but for the Trust (even if here Beneficiary
happens to be the sole beneficiary.) The Court therefore now addresses those
points: 
          On the first point, Former Trustees
have not shown why the Court should bar Beneficiary from presenting his case on
entitlement to damages for the Trust’s losses. Their argument premised on the
American Rule misses the point. beneficiary is making a claim for damages, not
fees as the prevailing party.[4] 
          On the second point, however, whether
trustees were required to pay Beneficiary’s fees (such that Former Trustees
might have an obligation to pay damages) is not an issue that the Court can now
decide on a motion in limine. This is an issue of substantive law (that has not
been fully briefed), not a matter of exclusion of irrelevant evidence: On the
one hand, Former Trustees have not shown why a trustee would have no such
obligation given the role of a trustee to protect a beneficiary’s interests. On
the other hand, Beneficiary has not pointed to any relevant provision in the
Trust that would require them to pay Beneficiary’s fees. Though Beneficiary
points to an order of February 6, 2012, it is not clear that this concerns the
issue here. Former Trustees contend it does not. 
          In short, Beneficiary’s claim for
fees as damages will have to be decided at trial. 
DENIED   

