


[1] Apparently, Former Trustees contend this section is
not applicable because Beneficiary did not seek the appointment of a “successor
trust company,” as specified in sec. 15645. Beneficiary points to the
prayer of his petition - that the Court appoint a designated successor trustee
or other qualified, independent, professional fiduciary and designate and
appoint an institutional trustee as the third new co-trustee as interim trustee
– as meeting the terms of the statute, or if not, as “liberally construed” as a
remedial statute – as is at play here on a petition to surcharge.  


[2]
Former Trustees also take on why Probate Code sec. 17211 would not be an exception
to the American Rule, i.e., as a statute permitting fees. However, this is a
non-issue because Beneficiary is not relying on sec. 17211. Accordingly, the
Court also does not need to reach the further issue as to whether the trustees
opposed the contest “without reasonable cause and in bad faith.” 
 


[3] Whether fees incurred by Greenberg Traurig in
bringing this claim for surcharge as part of his objections to Former Trustees’
accounting is a different issue. Whether such fees are recoverable is not part
of this trial. Those are reserved for later proceedings, as stipulated to by
prior trial management order filed. 


[4] If Beneficiary’s claim were one for recovery as a
prevailing party, it remains to be seen if Probate Code sec. 15645 would
provide a statutory basis for fees. 
-         
Sec. 15645 was
enacted in 1990 – after this Trust was formed in 1987. The parties do not
address whether it would need to apply retroactively to be effective – if that
is even possible. 
-         
Beneficiary has
not shown this Trust was nonrevocable or it is deemed one in view of the
passing of the trustor. In turn, where this case is a Probate case, not a Civil
case, it is not clear the deadline in the Rules of Court that Former Trustees
rely on is controlling. 
-         
Nonetheless, whether
fees had to be sought in the removal proceeding itself or could still be
brought in this same case, no explanation is offered why these fees were not
sought from Judge Beckloff – when he was still assigned to this case - in view
of his having heard the lengthy removal trial. He would have been in the best
position to determine the appropriateness of fees.
-         
In addition, whether
Beneficiary sought a corporate trustee or the designated individuals as
successor trustees has not been fully addressed. There was considerable
litigation herein over who would be the successor trustees. 
-         
Finally, the
papers supporting the motion do not show Beneficiary made a request Former
Trustees resign before filing the removal petition. 

