 Case Number:  24STCP02314    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  82 Green Acre Management,                                        Case
No. 24STCP02314
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
November 22, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
California
Department of                                        Department:
82
Cannabis
Control, et al.                                           Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch                                          
                                     
[Tentative] Order Denying Petitioner’s Motion
to Stay Revocation of Provisional License
 
[Tentative] Order Sustaining Respondents’ Demurrer
without Leave to Amend
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            The
Department of Cannabis Control (the “Department”) revoked a provisional
cannabis manufacturing license issued to Petitioner Green Acre Management (“Petitioner”).  Accordingly, Petitioner has filed a petition
for a writ of traditional mandamus under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085
seeking a writ requiring the Department to hold a hearing before revoking its
provisional license.  Now, Petitioner
seeks a stay of the decision to revoke the provisional license.  The Department and its director (collectively,
“Respondents”) demur to the petition. Respondents do not have a ministerial
duty to provide a pre-deprivation hearing before revoking a provisional
license.  Even if so, two weeks after
revoking Petitioner’s provisional license, the Department denied Petitioner’s
annual license application, which automatically cancels any provisional
license.  Per statute, this court does not have jurisdiction to review or stay any decision by the
Department to deny an annual license application; only the California Supreme
Court or the District Court of Appeal for the Second District may do so.  Moreover, the balance of harms favors
Respondents, not Petitioner.  Therefore, the
court denies Petitioner’s motion to stay and sustains Respondents’ demurrer
without leave to amend.         
 
BACKGROUND 
 
A.        Cannabis Licensing in California 
 
The Department “has the power, duty,
purpose, responsibility, and jurisdiction to regulate commercial cannabis
activity.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code §§
26010.5(d).)  “The protection of the
public shall be the highest priority for the department in exercising
licensing, regulatory, and disciplinary functions under this division. Whenever
the protection of the public is inconsistent with other interests sought to be
promoted, the protection of the public shall be paramount.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26011.5.)
 
As part of its duties, the Department issues
annual and provisional cannabis licenses. 
An annual license “shall be valid for 12 months from the date of
issuance” and “[t]he license may be renewed annually.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26050(c).)  As relevant to this petition, the Legislature
has enacted a detailed process for suspension or revocation of annual licenses,
as well as appellate review of such decisions. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 26030, 26031.) 

 
The
department may suspend, revoke, place on probation with terms and
conditions, or otherwise discipline licenses issued by the
department and fine a licensee, after proper notice and hearing to the
licensee … if the licensee is found to have committed any of the acts or
omissions constituting grounds for disciplinary action. 
 
(Bus.
& Prof. Code § 26031(a).)  Any appeal
of an administrative decision of the Department to suspend or revoke an annual
license is heard by the Cannabis Control Appeals Panel.  (See Bus. & Prof. Code § 26040, et
seq.)  Judicial review is limited to
a petition for writ of mandate to the California Supreme Court or Court of
Appeal:
 
No
court of this state, except the Supreme Court and the courts of appeal to the
extent specified in this chapter, shall have jurisdiction to review, affirm,
reverse, correct, or annul any order, rule, or decision of the
department or to suspend, stay, or delay the operation or execution
thereof, or to restrain, enjoin, or interfere with the department in
the performance of its duties, but a writ of mandate shall lie from the Supreme
Court or the courts of appeal in any proper case.
 
(Bus.
& Prof. Code § 26045(a).)  However, these
sections do not apply to provisional licenses, like the one at issue in this
case.  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26050.2(m).)  
 
Beginning in 2018, the Legislature
authorized the Department, “in its sole discretion,” to issue provisional
licenses if specified conditions are met. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 26050.2(a); see Stats. 2018, ch. 857, §
1 (Sen. Bill No. 1459).)[1]  As relevant to this writ petition, the Department
 “may, in its sole discretion, revoke or
suspend a provisional license if it determines the licensee failed to actively
and diligently pursue requirements for the annual license.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26050.2(i).)  The Department “shall adopt regulations
clarifying what constitutes actively and diligently pursuing requirements for
the annual license.”  (Bus. & Prof.
Code § 26050.2(i).)  DDC has promulgated
such regulations.  (See Cal. Code
of Regs., tit. 4, § 15001(d).)
 
 Further,
the Department “shall cancel a provisional license upon issuance of an annual license,
denial of an annual license, abandonment of an application for licensure, or
withdrawal of an application for licensure.” 
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 26050.2(j).) 
Unlike for an annual license, the statutory scheme does not provide a
hearing or appeal procedure for the suspension or revocation of a provisional
license.   Specifically, section 26050.2
states:
 
Refusal
by the department to issue a license pursuant to this section or revocation or
suspension by the department of a license issued pursuant to this section shall
not entitle the applicant or licensee to a hearing or an appeal of the
decision. Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 480) of Division 1.5
and Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 26040) of this division
and Sections 26031 and 26058 shall not
apply to licenses issued pursuant to this section.
 
(Bus.
& Prof. Code § 26050.2(m).)
 
B.        Petitioner’s
Cannabis License History
 
On or about December 2, 2020, Petitioner
submitted an application for an annual cannabis manufacturing license.  (Castelo Decl. ¶ 2.)  For reasons not explained by the record, the
Department did not decide Petitioner’s application for an annual license in
2021, 2022, or 2023.  (Id. ¶
2.)  On or about February 23, 2021, the
Department issued provisional cannabis manufacturing license CDPH-10004540 (the
“provisional license”) to Petitioner.  (Id.
¶ 3.)  Petitioner renewed the provisional
license in 2022, 2023, and 2024.  (Id.
¶ 4.)  When Petitioner renewed its provisional
license in 2024, it paid a license fee of $50,000 to the Department.  (Id. ¶ 5.)  Between 2021 and 2024, Petitioner invested
approximately $2.4 million to grow its business, hired approximately 26
employees, and entered into numerous contracts with business partners.  (Id. ¶ 8.)
 
On May 17, 2024, the Department gave
Petitioner written notice that it was “reviewing provisional license number
CDPH-10004540 … for revocation.”  (Id.
¶ 6, Exh. A.)  The Department’s
letter identified fourteen alleged violations of the licensing regulations as
the grounds for revocation.  (Ibid.)  The first thirteen counts in the letter were
based on a criminal investigation in March 2021 into unlicensed cannabis
operations at two addresses in Santa Fe Springs, California, and related to a
business doing business as Muha Meds and Ali Garawi and Muhammad Garawi.  The fourteenth count alleged that Petitioner
failed to timely report that two of its owners, Ali Garawi and Muhammad Garawi,
had been convicted of wire fraud.  (Id.
Exh. A.)
 
The merits of the Department’s allegations
are not at issue with respect to the motion for stay or the demurrer.  Nonetheless, for background, Petitioner’s
current Chief Executive Officer and shareholder, Valeria Castelo, declares that
“Ali Garawi and Muhammad Garawi first purchased shares of Green Acre no earlier
than September 9, 2021” and “sold all of their shares in Green Acre on or about
November 15, 2023.”  (Castelo Decl. ¶
11.)  Castelo also declares: “Green Acre
has only ever had one location in Long Beach, California. Green Acre has never
operated in Santa Fe Springs, California.” 
(Id. ¶ 10.)
 
On May 24, 2024, two of Petitioner’s
then-shareholders, including Ali Garawi, met with representatives of the Department
to discuss the allegations in the notice of May 17, 2024.  (Garawi Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  At that meeting, Petitioner’s representatives
denied that Petitioner had committed the alleged violations.  (Ibid.)  In his declaration, Ali Garawi recalls that
he told the Departments that “in March 2021, neither I, my brother Muhammad
Garawi, nor our cannabis brand, Muha Meds, had any affiliation with Green Acre.”  (Ibid.)  
 
On June 19, 2024, the Department gave
Petitioner written notice of its decision to revoke Petitioner’s provisional license.  The Department indicated that it had
“discovered evidence” of fourteen different violations of the licensing
regulations, as alleged in the notice of May 24, 2024.  (Castelo Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. B.)  Pursuant to section 26050.2(m), Petitioner
was not afforded an administrative hearing or appeal to challenge the
revocation of its provisional license.
 
On or about July 3, 2024, the Department issued
a letter regarding the “Denial of Annual License Application CDPH-10004540
Premises Address: 515 W 17th Street, Long Beach, CA 90813.”  (Resp. RJN Exh. 1.)  The denial of the annual license was based on
substantially similar violations of the licensing regulations specified in the notices
of May 24 and June 19, 2024.  In the letter
of July 3, 2024, the Department notified Petitioner of its right to appeal the
denial of the annual license.  (Ibid.)  On July 9, 2024, Petitioner filed its request
to appeal the Department  denial of its
annual license application.  (Cribbs
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)  That administrative
hearing process has not been completed. 
(See id. ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
C.        The
Petition 
 
On July 19, 2024, Petitioner filed its
verified petition for writ of traditional mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1085. 
The petition alleges that “Respondents had a clear duty under Section
1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution and Section 7
of Article I of the California Constitution to respect Green Acre’s due process
rights when revoking the Provisional License.”  (Petition for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶
19.)  Based on this legal theory,
Petitioner further alleges that it “is entitled to a peremptory writ of mandate
vacating the revocation of Petitioner’s provisional license CDPH-10004540,
ordering Respondents to hold a hearing … on whether there is a basis for the
revocation of Petitioner’s provisional license CDPH-10004540, and ordering
Respondents to afford Petitioner an appeal … of any decision made at the
hearing.”  (Pet. ¶ 24.)
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A.             
Motion for Stay 
 
“A stay of an agency decision in
a traditional mandamus case is governed by principles for injunctive relief.”  (Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules, Rule
3.231(e).)  The purpose of a
preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo pending a decision on the
merits.  (Major v. Miraverde Homeowners Ass’n. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 618,
623.)  In deciding whether or not to
grant a preliminary injunction, the court looks to two factors, including “(1)
the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the
relative balance of harms that is likely to result from the granting or denial
of interim injunctive relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528,
553-54.)  The factors are interrelated,
with a greater showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.)  However, the party seeking
an injunction must demonstrate at least a reasonable probability of success on
the merits.  (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 73-74.)  The party seeking the injunction bears the
burden of demonstrating both a likelihood of success on the merits and the
occurrence of irreparable harm.  (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223
Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.)  “To issue an
injunction is the exercise of a delicate power, requiring great caution and
sound discretion, and rarely, if ever, should be exercised in a doubtful case.”  (Willis v.
Lauridson (1911) 161 Cal. 106, 117.)
 
B.             
Demurrer 
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the
grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We assume the truth of the
allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v.
State (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A demurrer must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)   
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Respondents’ requests for judicial notice of Exhibits 1 and
2 are
granted.  Petitioner’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibit A is granted. 

            
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Petitioner’s Likelihood
of Success on the Merits 
 
There are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ
of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present,
and ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present,
and beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that
duty. (California Ass’n for Health
Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.)  “An action in ordinary
mandamus is proper where … the claim is that an agency has failed to act as
required by law.” (Id. at 705.)  Petitioner
contends that it has a “protectable interest” in the provisional license and
that the Department has a legal duty to provide Petitioner a pre-deprivation
hearing and right to appeal before revoking the provisional license under the
due process clauses of the United States Constitution  and the California Constitution.  (Motion for a Stay (“Mot.”) 10-14.)
 
1.         Applicable
Law 
 
The due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution provides that no
state may “deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process
of law.”  
 
Not every denial of a fair hearing for which a remedy
may be available under state law implicates constitutional due process. . . .  A person seeking a benefit provided by the
government has a property interest in the benefit for purposes of procedural
due process only if the person has a legitimate claim of entitlement to it. 
 
(Las Lomas Land
Co., LLC v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 837, 853, citations
and internal quotations omitted.)  Under
federal law, “a benefit is not a protected entitlement if government officials
may grant or deny it in their discretion.” 
(Town of Castle Rock, Colorado v. Gonzales (2005) 545 U.S. 748,
756.)  
 
Article I, section
7(a) of the California Constitution states that “[a] person may not be deprived
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law.”  “Although under the state due process
analysis an aggrieved party need not establish a protected property interest,
the claimant must nevertheless identify a statutorily conferred benefit or
interest of which he or she has been deprived to trigger procedural due process
under the California Constitution.”  (Ryan
v. California Interscholastic Federation-San Diego Section (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 1048, 1071.)  
 
Under the California Constitution, the extent to which
procedural due process is available depends on a weighing of private and
governmental interests involved…. Specifically, determination of the
dictates of due process generally requires consideration of four factors: the
private interest that will be affected by the individual action; the risk of an
erroneous deprivation of this interest through the procedures used and the
probable value, if any, of additional or substitute safeguards; the dignitary
interest of informing individuals of the nature, grounds and consequences of
the action and of enabling them to present their side of the story before a
responsible governmental official; and the government interest, including the
function involved and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional
or substitute procedural requirements would entail.  
 
(Rodriguez v.
Department of Real Estate (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 1289, 1297.)  The analysis under the federal due process
clause is similar.  (See Mathews v.
Eldridge (1976) 424 U.S. 319, 334-335.)
 
2.         Procedural
Due Process Analysis  
 
Petitioner
contends that all four factors set forth in Rodriguez support a finding
that Petitioner is entitled to “a pre-deprivation hearing before a neutral
factfinder and an appeal from Respondents’ decision to revoke the provisional license.”  (Mot. 13-14.) 
In contrast, Respondents contend that the four Ramirez factors do
not entitle Petitioner to procedural due process.  (Oppo. 9-12.) 

 
A threshold issue,
however, is whether the federal or state procedural due process analyses are
triggered at all.  (See Ryan, supra, 94
Cal.App.4th at 1073-74.)  Under federal
law, the claimant must show a “legitimate claim of entitlement to a benefit—not simply a unilateral expectation or
an abstract need.”  (Id. at
1064.)  And, under the California
constitution, the claimant must identify “a statutorily conferred
benefit or interest of which he or she has been deprived.”  (Id. at 1071.)  In addition, “only those governmental
decisions which are adjudicative in nature are subject to procedural
due process principles.  Legislative
action is not burdened by such requirements.” 
(Hobbs v. City of Pacific Grove (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 311,
322.)  Finally, “[l]ike legislative acts,
ministerial acts are not within this constitutional realm[,] ... because
ministerial decisions are essentially automatic based on whether certain fixed
standards and objective measurements have been met.”  (Id. at 323, citations omitted.)  
 
Petitioner argues
that a provisional license is similar to a license which enables one to pursue
a profession or earn a livelihood, such as a chiropractic license or a liquor
license.  (Mot. 10.)  However, unlike such licenses, the provisional
licenses issued by the Department are conditional and expressly limited by
statute.  Specifically, the Department
“in its sole discretion” may revoke a provisional license “if it determines the licensee failed to
actively and diligently pursue requirements for the annual license.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26050.2(i).)  Also relevant to this case, the Department
is required to cancel (i.e., “shall cancel”) a provisional license “upon issuance of an annual license, denial
of an annual license, abandonment of an application for licensure, or withdrawal
of an application for licensure.” 
(Bus. & Prof. Code §
26050.2(j).)  Section 26050.2(m) also
states that “revocation or suspension by the department of a license issued
pursuant to this section shall not entitle the applicant or licensee to a
hearing or an appeal of the decision.” 
And the regulations expressly declare that “a provisional license does not create a vested right
in the holder to renewal of the provisional license or issuance of an annual
license.”  (See Cal. Code of
Regs., tit. 4, § 15001(b).)  Because a provisional
license can be revoked in the Department’s sole discretion or cancelled by
operation of law, Petitioner has not shown that is has an entitlement or
statutorily conferred benefit protected by the federal or state due process
clauses.  
 
To the extent the
Department must afford due process before revoking a provisional license,
Petitioner does not demonstrate that it is entitled to a pre-deprivation
hearing and right to appeal.  Although
the provisional license is important to Petitioner’s business, Petitioner has
only a conditional and limited interest in that license, as discussed.  Based on the statutory scheme, Petitioner
does not have a reasonable expectation that it may continue to use the
provisional license should the Department determine, as it did in this case,
that Petitioner’s application for annual license should be denied.  (See Bus. & Prof. Code § 26050.2(a),
(i), (j).)  The risk of erroneous
deprivation of Petitioner’s interest in the provisional license is low because,
as discussed, the provisional license must be denied automatically should the
Department decide to deny Petitioner’s application for an annual license, which
occurred in this case.  For these same
reasons, Petitioner has not shown any “dignitary interests” that required the Department
to give Petitioner more notice and opportunity to respond than it did.  Finally, the governmental interest is
significant and outweighs any private interest that Petitioner may have in the
conditional privilege to operate a cannabis business with a provisional
license.   “The protection of the public shall be the
highest priority for the department in exercising licensing,
regulatory, and disciplinary functions under this division.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26011.5.)  That priority would be severely hindered if the
Department was required to provide pre-deprivation hearings before revoking
provisional licenses for applicants who DCC has determined, in its discretion,
lack the qualifications for an annual license. 

 
Regardless, even
if there was a due process right to a hearing before the Department exercises
its discretion to revoke a provisional license, Petitioner still would not be
entitled to relief from this court.  On
or about July 3, 2024, the Department issued a letter regarding the “Denial of
Annual License Application CDPH-10004540 Premises Address: 515 W 17th Street,
Long Beach, CA 90813.”  (Resp. RJN Exh.
1.)  As noted, the Department is required
by law to cancel a provisional license “upon . . . denial of an annual license.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code 
§ 26050.2(j).)  Accordingly, even if the court were to stay the
revocation decision of June 19, 2024, Petitioner’s provisional license would
remain cancelled by operation of law based upon the denial of July 3, 2024.  This court does not have jurisdiction to stay
a decision to deny an annual license. 
(See Bus. & Prof. Code § 26045.)[2] 
 
            Petitioner’s remaining arguments are
not persuasive.  The merits of the
Department’s decisions to revoke Petitioner’s provisional license and to deny
its application for an annual license are not at issue in this petition.  Petitioner seeks a writ of traditional mandamus
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 requiring the Department to hold a
hearing.  This is not a petition for writ
of administrative mandamus under section 1094.5 challenging the Department’s
decisions.  By statute, the court lacks
jurisdiction over such a challenge to the Department’s decisions.  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26045(a).)  Accordingly, Petitioner’s discussion of the
merits of those decisions is irrelevant. 
(See e.g. Mot. 16-17.) 
Similarly, Petitioner does not show that it is relevant that its
application for an annual license was pending before the Department for several
years.  (See Oppo. to Demurrer
6-7.)  The evidence does not explain why the
Department did not decide Petitioner’s application for an annual license in
2021, 2022, or 2023, and it is possible that the delay was caused from
Petitioner’s failure to complete all requirements.  (Castelo Decl. ¶ 2.)  Regardless, for the reasons discussed above,
the statute gave Petitioner clear notice that it did not have any vested or
protectible interest in a provisional license.
 
            Based upon the foregoing, Petitioner
has not shown that Respondents have a ministerial duty to provide Petitioner a
pre-deprivation hearing before revoking the provisional license.  Even if so, the provisional license would remain
canceled by operation of law as a result of the Department’s decision to deny
Petitioner’s annual license application, and this court does not have
jurisdiction to stay that decision.  Because
Petitioner has not demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of success on the
merits, it is not entitled to a stay.   
 
B.        Balance of Harms 
 
For the second factor, the court must consider “the interim harm that
the plaintiff would be likely to sustain if the injunction were denied as
compared to the harm the defendant would be likely to suffer if the preliminary
injunction were issued.”  (Smith v. Adventist Health System/West (2010)
182 Cal.App.4th 729, 749.)  Because Petitioner
has not demonstrated a reasonable probability of success, the court need not
reach the balance of harms.  Regardless,
the balance of harms weighs for denying preliminary injunctive relief.  Although Petitioner claims to have relied
detrimentally on the provisional license, Petitioner has not shown any
reasonable expectation that
it could continue to use the provisional license should the Department
determine that Petitioner’s application for annual license should be
denied.  (See § 26050.2(a), (i), (j).)  The Department has, in fact, determined that
Petitioner’s application for an annual license must be denied.  By contrast, the Department has a strong
public safety mandate.  The Department’s
letter denying the annual license alleged multiple, serious violations of the
licensing regulations.  (Resp. RJN Exh.
2.)  “The protection of the public shall
be the highest priority for the department in exercising licensing,
regulatory, and disciplinary functions under this division.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 26011.5.)  That priority would be irreparably harmed if
the stay requested by Petitioner was granted. 
Because the balance of harms weighs for denying preliminary injunctive
relief, Petitioner is not entitled to a stay. 

 
C.        Respondents’ Demurrer 
 
In their demurrer,
Respondents contend that the petition fails to state a cause of action because “the
provisional license was a conditional, limited license that … did not confer a
property right for which due process protections would attach.”  (Dem. 7:5-7.) 
Respondents raise a legal question which the court may decide from the
face of the petition and judicially noticeable records, including the notice if
June 19, 2024, revoking Petitioner’s provisional license and the notice of July
13, 2024, denying Petitioner’s application for an annual license.  (Resp. RJN Exh. 1, 2.)  As discussed, Respondents do not have a ministerial
duty to provide a pre-deprivation hearing and right to appeal before revoking a
provisional license.  Even if so, Respondents
denied Petitioner’s annual license application two weeks later.  Such decisions automatically cancel
provisional licenses, and this court does not have jurisdiction to stay or
review decisions to deny annual license applications.  Accordingly, the court sustains the demurrer.
 
A demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend when there
is no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)  In assessing whether leave
to amend should be granted, the burden is on the complainant to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. 
(Goodman v.  Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348-349.)  “Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule.”  (McDonald
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 297, 303; see also Kittredge Sports Co. v. Sup.Ct. (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“even if the proposed legal theory is a novel
one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the
parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer….’”].)  However, leave to amend may be denied if “the
complaint shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment.”  (City of Stockton v. Sup.Ct. (2007) 42
Cal.4th 730, 747.)  In its opposition
brief, Petitioner has not requested leave to amend.  Nor can Petitioner amend to cure the defects
identified in the court’s order.  Therefore,
the court denies leave to amend.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s motion to stay is denied.
 
            2.         Respondents’ demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
            3.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment forthwith.
 
            4.         Respondents’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated: November 22,
2024                
                                                                                    ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


