

Hearing Date:             August
9, 2024
Case Name:                Oscar Alvarado Ortiz v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
Case No.:                    23STCV06568
Motion:                       Motion
to Quash Service of Summons
Moving
Party:             Defendant Cosentino
Group, S.A.

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Oscar Alvarado Ortiz


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion to quash service
of summons upon Cosentino Group is granted.
 

 
On March 23, 2023, Plaintiff Oscar
Alvarado Ortiz (“Ortiz”) filed a personal injury action against Architectural
Surfaces, Inc. and 48 other defendants for alleged injuries resulting from
exposure to toxic silica, metals, and other fibrogenic substances in the scope
of his employment.  On April 22, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against more than 70 defendants for
(1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3) products
liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, and (5) breach of
implied warranties.  Several parties have
filed cross-complaints against Plaintiff.
 
On October 12, 2023, Defendant
Cosentino Group, S.A. (“Cosentino”) specially appeared and filed a Motion to
Quash Service of Summons.  On May 9,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition and another supplemental opposition.  On May 14, 2024, Cosentino filed a reply.  Between May 16 and June 14, 2024, the parties
filed several supplemental papers.  On
June 20, 2024, the Court noted that the filings by both parties that occurred
after June 12, 2024, were not authorized by the Court.  Thus, the Court ordered as follows:
 
Defendant Cosentino is to file and
serve a single, consolidated motion to quash on or before July 8, 2024 that
complies with the page limits of the Rules of Court. Plaintiff is to file and
serve a single, consolidated opposition on or before July 17, 2024 that also
complies with the page limits of the Rules of Court. Finally, Defendant
Cosentino may file and serve a single, consolidated reply on or before July 24,
2024 that complies with the page limits of the Rules of Court.
 
The Court continued the hearing to August 6, 2024, and once
again to August 9, 2024.
 
            On July 9,
2024, Defendant Cosentino filed a consolidated Motion to Quash Service of
Summons.  On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff
filed its Opposition and on July 24, 2024, Defendant filed its Reply.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“‘Service
of process, under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is
fundamental to any procedural imposition on a named defendant.’
[Citation.]”  (AO Alfa-Bank v.
Yakovlev (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 189, 202.)  “To establish personal jurisdiction,
compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is essential.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021). 71
Cal.App.5th 358, 371.)  Defendant’s
knowledge of the action does not dispense with statutory requirements for
service of summons.  (Kappel v.
Bartlett (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.)
 
            “A defendant, on or before the last
day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may
for good cause allow” may move “to quash service of summons on the ground of
lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her” that results from lack of
proper service.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).  A
defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to file a responsive
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
412.20(a)(3).) 
 
            “When a defendant challenges the
court’s personal jurisdiction on the
ground of improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove
the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)  “Evidence Code section 647 provides
that a registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a
presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in
the declaration.  [Citation.]”  (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
Cosentino moves to quash service of summons on the grounds that Plaintiff did
not properly serve Defendant and the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over
Defendant.
 
Cosentino is a company organized under the laws of Spain,
with headquarters in Spain, and operating exclusively in Spain.  (Cuervo Decl. ¶ 4.)  It is a holding company that does not
develop, design, manufacture, distribute, sell, advertise, or market any
products.  (Ibid. at ¶ 6.)  It have never conducted business in
California and does not own, maintain, or control the website www.cosentino.com.  (Ibid. at ¶ 5; Cuervo Reply Decl. ¶ 7.)  Cosentino Group changed its name to
Cosentino, S.A. on July 23, 2023, thus, any references to “Cosentino S.A.” or
“Cosentino, S.A.U.” prior to that date are references to a different and
separate legal entity.  (Cuervo Reply
Decl. ¶ 4.)  C&C, another named
Defendant in this action, is a corporation with its principal place of business
in Coral Gables, Florida; it is an indirect subsidiary of Cosentino.  (Cuervo Decl. ¶ 7.)  However, Cosentino does not manage or control
the day-to-day operations of C&C, C&C has its own separate bank
accounts and business records, and pays and manages its own employees.  (Ibid. at ¶ 8.). Thus, these are
separate and independent corporate entities. 
(Ibid.)
 
On September 13, 2023, Eduardo Cosentino, Executive
Vice-President of Global Corporate Sales for the Cosentino Group, was
personally served in Vancouver, British Columbia at a ribbon-cutting event for
the opening of a new Cosentino showroom at 1640 West 3rd Avenue, in Vancouver,
Canada by a “Canadian Private Investigation Firm.”  (9-25-23 Affidavit of Service Upon Defendant
Cosentino Group.) 
Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel also
mailed copies of the summons and complaint via Federal Express International
Priority, to Cosentino in Spain. 
 
 
Improper Service
 
Defendant
Cosentino challenges service of process by arguing that Plaintiff improperly
attempted to serve an officer of Cosentino while he was visiting Canada under Article
10, subdivision (b) of the Hague Service Convention (“Convention”) and British
Columbia Supreme Court Civil Rule 4–3(2)(b). 
Defendant argues that instead of simply serving Cosentino through
Spain’s central authority, as Spain is a signatory to the Convention, Plaintiff
attempted to serve Cosentino in Canada pursuant to Article 10 of the
Convention.  (Mot. p. 11.)  
 
According to
Article 10 of the Hague Service Convention, “[p]rovided the State
of destination does not object, the present Convention shall not interfere
with…b) the freedom of judicial officers, officials or other competent persons
of the State of origin to effect service of judicial documents directly through
the judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the State of
destination.”  Defendant argues that if
“state of destination” can mean Canada, any other signatory state’s objections
would become irrelevant and the national of any signatory state could be served
in Canada.  (Mot. p. 12.)  As a result, if a plaintiff did not like a
particular country’s laws governing service, they could circumvent such laws
through service in another country.  (Ibid.)  In this case, Plaintiff argues that private
investigators are competent to serve process in Canada, but there is no
evidence Spain would deem such private investigators competent.  (Ibid.)  As a signatory, Spain agreed that Spanish
nationals could be served in compliance with Spanish laws, but it has not
agreed that they could be served in compliance with the laws of British
Columbia.  (Id. at pp. 12-13.)
 
Defendant
also argues that service was invalid pursuant to Article 10, subdivision (a) of
the Convention, which states that “[p]rovided the State of
destination does not object, the present Convention shall not interfere with…a)
the freedom to send judicial documents, by postal channels, directly to persons
abroad.”  Here, Spain did not object to
Article 10, subdivision (a).  However,
service was invalid because it was not authorized by California law.  (Id. at p. 13.)  Here, proof of delivery by Federal Express
shows that the mail was delivered to “Suministros” and the U.S. Mail return
receipt shows it was solely addressed to “Cosentino Group” and no
individual.  (Ibid. at p.
14.)  In place of the signature of
addressee in the return receipt is a “Cosentino Global, S.L.U.” stamp used by
receptionists and mail clerks who are not authorized to accept service of
process.  (Cuervo Reply Decl. ¶ 9.) 
Defendant argues that service did not comply with Code of Civil
Procedure section 416.10, as none of the individuals authorized by the statute
were served and instead the documents were mailed to a location where supplies
and occasional Federal Express deliveries are received.  (Ibid.; Cuervo Reply Decl. ¶ 8.) 
Accordingly, service did not comply with the Hague Service
Convention.  (Ibid.)
 
“When a defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper
service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of
jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective
service.’”  (Summers
v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)  “Evidence Code section 647 provides
that a registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a
presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in
the declaration.  [Citation.]”  (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.)
 
Plaintiff’s opposition to Cosentino’s
motion to quash fails to address Defendant’s challenge to service of
summons.  On September 25, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a sworn Affidavit of Service Upon Defendant Cosentino Group by
Vladimir Raiman, who states that he is an agent of a Canadian Private
Investigation Firm and is authorized to serve process in British Columbia.  This sworn Affidavit by an authorized process
server is afforded the same presumption as a declaration from a registered
process server.
 
Here, service on Defendant is governed by
the Convention and, to the extent not inconsistent with the Convention, by the
Code of Civil Procedure.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 413.10(c); Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. Schlunk (1988)
486 U.S. 694, 699-700 [“If the internal law of the forum state defines the
applicable method of serving process as requiring the transmittal of documents
abroad, then the Hague Service Convention applies.”]; see also Brockmeyer v.
May (9th Cir.2004) 383 F.3d 798, 803–804.)
 
The Hague Service Convention provides a
mechanism for signatory nations to serve process abroad; it applies when the
forum state's internal law requires transmittal of documents abroad as a
necessary part of service of process.  (Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft, supra, 486 U.S. 694 at p. 700.)
 
“The Convention describes several methods
of effecting service of process.  The
primary method requires member states to designate a “Central Authority” to
receive requests of service, arrange for service of documents, and return
proofs of service.”  (Denlinger v.
Chinadotcom Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1399 [citing “See arts. 2–7,
Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in
Civil or Commercial Matters, Nov. 15, 1965, 20 U.S.T. 361, T.I.A.S. No. 6638,
reprinted in Fed. Rules Civ. Proc., foll. rule 4, 28 U.S.C].) However,
alternative methods of service are detailed under articles 8, 9, 10, 11 and 19.
 (Ibid.)
 
“Article 10 states in its entirety: ‘Provided
the State of destination does not object, the present Convention shall not
interfere with—[¶] (a) the freedom to send judicial documents, by postal
channels, directly to persons abroad, [¶] (b) the freedom of judicial officers,
officials or other competent persons of the State of origin to effect service
of judicial documents directly through the judicial officers, officials or
other competent persons of the State of destination[,][¶] (c) the freedom of
any person interested in a judicial proceeding to effect service of judicial
documents directly through the judicial officers, officials or other competent
persons of the State of destination.”  (Denlinger
v. Chinadotcom Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1399, fn. 3.)
 
“Thus, article 10 contemplates that,
unless an objection is made by the destination state, a party may effect
service through a “competent person[ ] of the State of destination,” such as an
authorized process server.”  (Whyenlee
Industries Ltd. v. Superior Court (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 364, 369.)1
 
Defendant argues that a person “of the State of
destination”–in this case, Spain–must be read to mean that that such a person
can only be personally served in the State of destination. However, as
Defendant notes, in interpreting treaties, courts must “‘begin with the text of
the treaty and the context in which the written words are used.’” (Water
Splash, supra, 581 U.S. at p. 276.) 
Here, Defendant asks the Court to replace “of” with “in.”  However, the Convention only requires service
of a corporation in compliance with the laws of the “state of origin” (the
country where the action is filed) and the “state of destination” (the country
where service is made on the corporation).  The Court does not find that there is anything in the
Convention language that suggests that personal service can only be affected in
the country of domicile for a corporation or individual and Defendant has not
shown otherwise.
 
The Court finds that the
Affidavit of Service, filed by an individual authorized to serve process in
British Columbia, has created the presumption that service was effected in
compliance with the state of destination and Defendant has not overcome this
presumption.
 
Moreover, the Court finds that
service was effected in compliance with the state of origin, in this case the
laws of California.  California law governing service of process on a
corporation is found in Code of Civil Procedure § 416.10, which states: “A
summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and
the complaint by any of the following methods: . . . (b) to the president,
chief executive officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice president, .
. . a general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive
service of process.” 
Here, Defendant does not dispute that Eduardo Cosentino, Executive
Vice-President of Global Corporate Sales for Cosentino, was personally served
with the service of summons.
 
            Defendant
also challenges service of process pursuant to subdivision (a) of Article 10 of
the Convention, arguing that Plaintiff’s attempt to serve Cosentino via Federal
Express mail was invalid as it did not comply with California law and, thus,
the Convention.
 
Article 10(a) is
silent on the details regarding the methods of mailing (e.g., ordinary,
certified and/or registered mail) and proof of a defendant's actual receipt of
the service documents.  However, the
United States Supreme Court held that “the Convention pre-empts inconsistent
methods of service prescribed by state law in all cases to which it applies.” (Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft, supra, 486 U.S. at p. 699.)  In Brockmeyer, the Ninth Circuit
explained the relationship of Article 10, subdivision (a) and the procedural
law of the forum state as applied to service by mail: “Article 10(a) does not
itself affirmatively authorize international mail service. It merely provides
that the Convention ‘shall not interfere with’ the ‘freedom’ to use postal channels
if the ‘State of destination’ does not object to their use.... [¶] ... [W]e
must look outside the Hague Convention for affirmative authorization of the
international mail service that is merely not forbidden by Article 10(a). Any
affirmative authorization of service by international mail, and any
requirements as to how that service is to be accomplished, must come from the
law of the forum in which the suit is filed.”  (Brockmeyer v. May, supra, 383 F.3d at
pp. 803–804.)  Thus, the details
governing the validity of Plaintiff’s service by federal express mail must come
from California law.
 
Here, service by mail has
not be established; Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that mail was
addressed to any authorized individuals in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure § 416.10.  However, as
discussed above, Defendant was properly served because the Executive Vice-President
of Global Corporate Sales for Cosentino was personally served.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
request to quash service of summons for improper service is denied.
 
 
Personal Jurisdiction
 
            Defendant
argues that the Court does not have personal jurisdiction over Cosentino.  First, Defendant contends, there is no basis
for the Court to exercise general personal jurisdiction over Cosentino.  (Mot. pp. 15-19.)  California is not Defendant’s place of incorporation,
or principal place of business, and it does not have any continuous and
systematic contacts in California.  Plaintiff
does not dispute that this Court lacks general jurisdiction over Cosentino.
 
Second, Defendant maintains,
there is no basis for exercising specific jurisdiction over Cosentino because
it has not purposefully availed itself of forum benefits or
purposefully directed activities at forum residents.  It has never conducted business in California
and does not develop, design, manufacture, distribute, sell, advertise, or
market any products.  (Cuervo Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Cuervo Reply Decl. ¶¶ 4-7.) 
Plaintiff’s claims do not arise out of or relate to Defendant’s contacts
with the forum, as such contacts are nonexistent.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Cosentino has purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting
business in California and thus, the Court does have personal jurisdiction over
Defendant.  (Oppos. p. 2.)  Plaintiff has presented a one-page Memorandum
and approximately 180 pages of evidence that includes the following exhibits:
 
1)    Exhibit
A - true and correct copy of the deposition of Jose Cuervo Vela, the
corporate representative of Cosentino S.A. and its declaration in support of
the company’s motion to quash service of summons for purported lack of personal
jurisdiction, taken in the case of Reyes-Cuevas and Acosta-Martinez v. Alpha
Tile Stone, Inc., et al, #23STCV00260.
2)    Exhibit
B - true and correct copy of the trademark registration for Cosentino
S.A.’s Silestone product.
3)    Exhibit
C – true and correct copy of a photo from the Cosentino website of the building
in Los Angeles that is called “Cosentino City Los Angeles” and bears both the
Cosentino wordmark and the Silestone wordmark.
 
(Metzger Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
            Plaintiff argues that Cuervo
testified that the Cosentino is the registered trademark owner for Silestone
and authenticated the trademark registrations. 
(Oppos. p. 2.). He also testified that Cosentino S.A. licensed the use
of the trademark to C&C North America, and thus, created a market for the
product in the United States, particularly in California.  (Ibid.)  According to Plaintiff, these trademarks are
admissible as records of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that can be
judicially noticed.  (Ibid.)  They show that Cosentino S.A. owns the
trademark for Silestone and registered it in the U.S., thus, it is in the chain
of distribution of Cosentino products and “through its ownership, use and
licensing of the trademarks, caused the epidemic including plaintiff’s
silicosis.”  (Ibid.)
 
            In its Reply, Defendant Cosentino
reiterates that as a holding company that operates in Spain, it does not
manufacture, supply, or distribute any products, and it does not participate in
the day-to-day operations of its indirect United States subsidiary, C & C
North America, Inc.  (Reply p. 6.)  Moreover, as Cuervo has testified, Cosentino
Group is not the registrant or owner of the trademark presented, which is owned
by a different entity, Cosentino Global, S.L.U. and Plaintiff is “blatantly
misrepresenting Mr. Cuervo’s testimony.”  (Ibid. at pp. 6, 9.)  
 
More
pertinent, Plaintiff fails to offer any authority for the contention that
registering or owning a trademark constitutes a purposeful contact for the
purpose of establishing personal jurisdiction. 
(Ibid.)  Defendant cites to
federal case law for the assertion that personal jurisdiction cannot be based
on the registration of a U.S. Trademark alone, but acknowledges that the matter
at issue is whether a California state court has personal jurisdiction over
Defendant.  (Ibid. at p. 11.)
 
“The
Due Process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment constrains a State’s authority
to bind a nonresident defendant to a judgment of its courts. [Citation.] [A]
nonresident generally must have ‘certain minimum contacts . . . such that the
maintenance of the suit does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.” ’ ”  (Walden v.
Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283.) 
Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.  For general jurisdiction, a defendant’s forum
contacts must be “so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render [the defendant]
essentially at home in the forum State.” 
(Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 139.)  The paradigm of general jurisdiction for a
corporation is its state of incorporation or principal place of business.  (Ibid. at p. 137.)
 
Specific
or case-linked jurisdiction “ ‘focuses on “the relationship among the
defendant, the forum, and the litigation.” ’ ” 
(Walden, supra, 571 U.S. at 283-284.)  In particular, “the defendant’s suit-related
conduct must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”  (Ibid. at 284.)  There are three requirements for a court to
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant:
 
First, the defendant must have
purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits or purposefully
directed activities at forum residents. Second, the controversy must relate to
or arise out of the defendant’s forum-related activities. Third, the exercise
of jurisdiction must comport with traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.”
 
(David L. v.
Superior Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 359, 366.)  The plaintiff has the initial burden to
establish the first two requirements.  Only
after doing so does the burden shift to the defendant to show that exercising
jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.
at 367.)  The plaintiff must do more than
merely allege jurisdictional facts.  “‘It
must present evidence sufficient to justify a finding that California may
properly exercise jurisdiction over the defendant.’”  (Zehia v. Superior Court (2020) 45
Cal.App.5th 543, 552.)
 
“‘[P]urposeful
availment occurs where a nonresident defendant “ ‘purposefully direct[s]’ [its]
activities at residents of the forum” [citation], “ ‘purposefully derive[s]
benefit’ from” its activities in the forum [citation], “create[s] a
‘substantial connection’ with the forum” [citation], “ ‘deliberately’ has
engaged in significant activities within” the forum [citation], or “has created
‘continuing obligations’ between [itself] and residents of the forum”
[citation]. By limiting the scope of a forum’s jurisdiction in this manner, the
“ ‘purposeful availment’ requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled
into a jurisdiction solely as a result of ‘random,’ ‘fortuitous,’ or
‘attenuated’ contacts … .” [Citation.]  Instead, the defendant will be subject to
personal jurisdiction only if “ ‘it has clear notice that it is subject to suit
there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by procuring
insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers, or, if the risks are too
great, severing its connection with the state.’ ” [Citations.]’ ” (HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.)
 
In
Walden, the U.S. Supreme Court emphasized two important principles
underlying the jurisdictional inquiry: “First, the relationship must arise out
of contacts that the ‘defendant himself’ creates with the forum State.
[Citation.] Due process limits on the State’s adjudicative authority
principally protect the liberty of the nonresident defendant – not the
convenience of plaintiffs or third parties.”  (Walden, supra, 571 U.S. at
284.)  “Second, our ‘minimum contacts’
analysis looks to the defendant’s contacts with the forum State itself, not the
defendant’s contacts with persons who reside there.”  (Ibid. at 285.)  “[T]he plaintiff cannot be the only link
between the defendant and the forum. Rather, it is the defendant’s conduct that
must form the necessary connection with the forum State that is the basis for
its jurisdiction over him.”  (Ibid.)
 Therefore, “mere injury to a forum
resident is not a sufficient connection to the forum.”  (Ibid. at 290.)  “The proper question is not where the
plaintiff experienced a particular injury or effect but whether the defendant’s
conduct connects him to the forum in a meaningful way.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
Court finds that Cosentino has not purposefully availed itself of forum
benefits or purposefully directed activities at forum residents.  As noted above, Cosentino is a Spanish
company, organized under the laws of Spain, with headquarters in Spain,
and operating exclusively in Spain. 
(Cuervo Decl. ¶ 4.)  It is a
holding company that does not develop, design, manufacture, distribute, sell,
advertise, or market any products.  (Ibid.
at ¶ 6.)  C&C, another named
Defendant in this action, is a corporation with its principal place of business
in Coral Gables, Florida; it is an indirect subsidiary of Cosentino, but these
are separate and independent corporate entities.  (Cuervo Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
Plaintiff’s only argument to establish that Defendant did
purposefully avail itself of forum benefits or directed activities at form
residents is that it is the registered trademark owner for Silestone and has
licensed the use of the trademark to C&C North America, creating a market
for the product in the United States, and especially in California.  Exhibit B to
the Vela deposition is a printout from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
website for Registrant Cosentino S.A.U. and last listed owner Cosentino Global,
S.L.U. with a registration date of July 4, 2017.  Defendant states that Cosentino Group changed its name to Cosentino, S.A. on July
23, 2023, thus, any references to “Cosentino S.A.” or “Cosentino, S.A.U.” prior
to that date are references to a different and separate legal entity.  (Cuervo Reply Decl. ¶ 4.)  Even assuming, arguendo, that Defendant
registered a trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, this does not
show that it established any contacts with the state of California.  Exhibit C is a photograph of a building with
the sign “Cosentino” from a website that states, “Welcome to Cosentino City Los
Angeles.”  Again, this does not establish
that the specific entity named in this action, Cosentino Group, S.A.,
which is a holding company, had any minimum contacts with the forum state.
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff has not established requisite minimum contacts
between Defendant and California or shown that his claims relate to or arise
out of the Defendant’s forum-related activities, if any.  As Plaintiff failed to meet his burden of
establishing the first two requirements for specific jurisdiction, the Court
need not address whether exercise of jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable.
 
Accordingly,
Cosentino’s motion to quash service of summons must be granted.
 
Conclusion
 
            The
Court grants Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to Quash
Service of Summons on the basis of lack of personal jurisdiction.  Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. is dismissed
from this case.
 
 