 Case Number:  23STCV04151    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




sarah lulloff

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mark lovequist, aka m.
   lovequist

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV04151




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   11, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
tentative
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant mark lovequist
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant ltpw developers, llc
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 John Andrew Wright  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Mark Lovequist
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant LTPW Developers, LLC
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
John Andrew Wright (“Defendants’ Counsel”) has filed two separate
motions to be relieved as counsel for (1) defendant Mark Lovequist
(“Lovequist”) and (2) defendant LTPW Developers, LLC (“LTPW”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  In the interest of
efficiency, the court discusses Defendants’ Counsel’s two motions together. 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿ 
The court
finds that Defendants’ Counsel has served (1) defendant Lovequist with the
moving papers filed in connection with this motion by mail, at Lovequist’s last
known address, which Defendants’ Counsel has been unable to confirm is current
after making reasonable efforts to do so, and (2) defendant LTPW with the moving
papers filed in connection with this motion by mail, at LTPW’s last known
address, which Defendants’ Counsel has been unable to confirm is current after
making reasonable efforts to do so. 
(MC-052 as to Lovequist, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(2)(b); MC-052 as
to LTPW, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(2)(b).) 
The court also finds that Defendants’ Counsel has shown sufficient
reasons why the motions should be granted, and why counsel brought the motions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent as to each client
under section 284, subdivision (1). 
(MC-052 Forms, ¶ 2.) 
However, Defendants’ Counsel
has not shown that counsel served the moving papers filed in connection with
each motion “on all other parties who have appeared in th[is] case” (i.e.,
plaintiff Sarah Lulloff), as required. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subd. (d).)  Defendants’ Counsel has not filed a proof of
service of the moving papers with the court, and the “Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” forms establish service
only on Defendants.  (MC-052 Forms,
¶ 3.) 
The court therefore exercises
its discretion to continue the hearing on Defendants’ Counsel’s motions to be
relieved as counsel for Defendants in order to give Defendants’ Counsel an
opportunity to serve the moving papers on all
other parties who have appeared in this action.¿¿
The court orders
that the hearing on John Andrew Wright’s motion to be relieved as
counsel for defendant Mark Lovequist is continued to May 15, 2024, at 10:00
a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders
that the hearing on John Andrew Wright’s motion to be relieved as
counsel for defendant LTPW Developers, LLC is continued to May 15, 2024, at
10:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders John Andrew Wright (1) to serve a notice of this
ruling on defendants Mark Lovequist and LTPW Developers, LLC, and all other
parties who have appeared in this action, and to file a proof of service of the
notice of ruling with the court no later than April 16, 2024, and (2) to serve
the papers filed in support of the pending motions to be relieved as counsel on
all of the parties who have appeared in this action, and to file a proof of
service with the court no later than April 16, 2024.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 11, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court