 Case Number:  24STCV07793    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  78 


NAREK
  VARDANYAN,
Plaintiff,
vs.
CHRISTOPHER
  MANDALIAN et al,
Defendants.


Case
  No.: 


23STCV27983




Hearing
  Date: 


September
  13, 2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO
  COMPEL THIRD PARTY COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA AND GRANTING IN PART
  REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Narek Varsanyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Christopher Mandalian (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 25 premised
upon defamation. 
On July 24, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to
Compel Third Party McReynolds Vardanyan, LLP (“McReynolds”) with the deposition
subpoena for Production of Business Records, and Request for Sanctions. 
On September 3, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of
non-opposition. No reply has been filed. 

A.    Moving
Argument
            Defendant
argues that third party, Mcreynolds Vardanyan, LLP should be ordered to comply
with Defendant’s document subpoena because McReynolds has failed to respond or
object to the deposition subpoena at issue. Therefore, the deposition record
has not been completed and any objection to the deposition subpoena by either
McReynolds or Plaintiff has been waived. Moreover, Plaintiff’s amended
responses to Form Interrogatories establish good cause for seeking the
requested employment records of Plaintiff from his employer McReynolds because
Plaintiff made loss of wage claims. (Valenzuela Decl. ¶ 4, Exhibit 2 (amended
responses to Form Interrogatories).) 
            Defendant further requests sanctions
in the amount of $4,800.00 against Plaintiff. 
B.    Opposing
Argument
            None filed.
C.    Reply
Argument
None filed.
 
II.        MOTION
TO COMPEL COMMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION 
A.    Legal
Standard
            California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1987.1 says that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made . . . may make
an order . . . directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare.” California Code of Civil Procedure, Section
2025.480(a) says that “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document . . . or other tangible thing under the deponent’s control
that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition, subpoena, the party
seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.”
            “This motion shall be made no later
than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) California Code of Civil Procedure, Section
2025.440(b) says that “[i]f a deponent whom a deposition subpoena has been
served fails to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the
court may impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240.”
California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 128(a)(4) says that every court has
the power “[t]o compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and process, and to
the orders of a judge out of court, in an action or proceeding pending
therein.”
            California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 2020.010(a) says that “the following methods may be used to obtain
discovery within the state from a person who is not a party to the action in
which the discovery is sought” and these methods include: (1) an oral
deposition; (2) a written deposition; or (3) a deposition for production of
business records and things. California Code of Civil Procedure, Section
2020.010(b) says that “the process by which a nonparty is required to provide
discovery is a deposition subpoena.” “[F]or a business record subpoena . . .
the 60-day period during which a motion to compel must be filed, begins to run
when the deponent serves objections on the party. At the time the objections
are served, the record of deposition is complete.” (Rutledge v.
Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192, also see Unzipped
Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 136- “Objections served
in response to a business records subpoena constitutes “a record of a
deposition.”)
 
B.   
Discussion
Merits 
            Here, third-party
McReynolds was served with the deposition subpoena on April 16, 2024, along
with a valid notice to consumer to Plaintiff. (Valenzuela Decl. ¶ 8, Exhibit 4.)
McReynolds was to produce records by May 3, 2024. The attorney service acting
as the deposition officer sent a violation letter on June 7, 2024. (Valenzuela Decl.
¶ 9, Exhibit 5.) When this violation letter was ignored, counsel for Defendant
sent meet and confer correspondence to Plaintiff counsel, and a partner at
McReynolds, an email demanding compliance with the subpoena. The email was sent
on July 1, 2024, and demanded a response to the email by July 3, 2024. (Valenzuela
Decl. ¶ ¶ 10-12, Exhibit 6. To date, McReynolds has failed to respond or object
to the deposition subpoena. (Valenzuela Decl. ¶ 13.) Notably, no opposition has
been filed. Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to
Compel Third Party Deposition. 
            
Sanctions
            Defendant also
seeks sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $4,800.00 in monetary
sanctions. 
            California Code
of Civil Procedure, Section 2025.480(j) says that “[t]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessful
makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1987.2(a) says that “in making an
order pursuant to a motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” California Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 2020.240 says that “[a] deponent who disobeys a deposition
subpoena in any manner . . . may be punished for contempt . . . without the
necessity of a prior order of court directing compliance by the witness. The
deponent is also subject the forfeiture and the payment of damages set forth in
Section 1992.” “A person failing to appear pursuant to a subpoena or a court
order also forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of five hundred dollars
($500), and all damages that he or she may sustain by the failure of the person
to appear pursuant to the subpoena or court order, which forfeiture and damages
may be recovered in a civil action.” California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 2023.010(d) states that misuses of the discovery process includes
“[f]ailing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery.”
            Plaintiff received
a violation letter and a meet and confer email from Defense Counsel on July 1,
2024. (Valenzuela Decl. ¶¶ 9-13; Ex. 5-6.) To date, Plaintiff has failed to
respond. Defense Counsel states that his hourly rate is $600.00 per hour and
claims that he spent 4.0 hours preparing the motion. (Valenzuela Decl. ¶
14(a).) Counsel further states that his office will take 4.0 hours preparing a
Reply and appearing at the hearing. (Id. at ¶ 14(b).) The Court notes
that sanctions are warranted, however, the amount sought is excessive. The
motion is simple and unopposed; thus, the Court will reduce the amount to
$1,200.00 for 2.0 hours preparing the motion and attending the hearing.  
 
IV. CONCLUSION
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Third Party Deposition is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to comply with Defendants deposition subpoena within 20
days of this order. The request for sanctions is GRANTED IN PART in a reduced
amount of $1,200.00 against Plaintiff. Plaintiff is
ordered to pay Defendant through his counsel $1,200.00 within 30 days of this
order. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 13, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.