 Case Number:  20VECV01388    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  W MARK A. LIKER
v. ELIEZER APPEL, et al.
 
demurrer to the second amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        March 22, 2024                                              Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case No.:        20VECV01388
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Cochran, Inc.
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Liker
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Mark A. Liker alleges
Defendant Eliezer Appel, in his capacity as a California licensed attorney,
instructed Plaintiff to purchase certain real property for $250,000.00 to
Defendant Cochran Inc. and promised Plaintiff a return on his investment as
well as plaintiff would take ownership of the property or that the property
would secure Plaintiff’s investment. Plaintiff further alleges Eliezer Appel
concealed from Plaintiff the fact that plaintiff did not own the property or
the company that took title to the property that is, the Defendant Lockhart
Development, Inc., and that Eliezer Appel took Plaintiff’s investment for his
own gain. 
 
On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff Mark A.
Liker filed a complaint against Defendants Eliezer Appel, Lockhart Development,
Inc., and Cochran Inc. asserting a single cause of action for fraud. Plaintiff
filed a Second Amended Complaint on August 30, 2023, asserting new causes of
action – breach of contract, negligent misrepresentation, intentional
misrepresentation, conspiracy to commit fraud, and breach of attorney fiduciary
duty/duty of loyalty. Liker added Knolton Inc. as Defendant Doe 1. 
 
On February 11, 2021, Lockhart
Development, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Mark A. Liker asserting
causes of action for (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Intentional or
Negligent Interference with Contractual Relations; (3) Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Implied
Contractual Indemnity; and (7) Slander of Title. 
 
On October 20, 2022, Appel filed a
cross-complaint against Liker, the California Neurological Institute, and Avi
Marciano asserting causes of action for (1) Violation of Physician’s Medical
Practice Act (MPA); (2) Undue Influence (CA Welfare & Institutions Code
15610.70); (3) Negligent Infliction of Extreme Emotional Distress (NIED); (4) Intentional
Infliction of Extreme Emotional Distress (IIED); (5) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage; and (6) Civil Extortion.      
 
This action is related to Marc A.
Larocque v. Christine Larocque Franz, et al. (LC105233). 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Cochran, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint
is OVERRULED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant Cochran, Inc. demurs to the
SAC on the grounds Plaintiff has not stated a claim for fraud, the court has
issued a stay, and Plaintiff has not stated a claim for breach of contract.[1] 
 
Fraud
 
Defendant Cochran, Inc. demurs to the
fraud causes of action on the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to support a claim of intentional or negligent misrepresentation. 
 
“ ‘The elements of fraud, which give
rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
“scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ”  (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638, quoting 5 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed.
1988) Torts, § 676, p. 778.) The elements of a claim for negligent
misrepresentation are “‘[M]isrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage… [citation omitted]” (Hydro-Mill Co. Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & RolappIns. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1145, 1154 [citation omitted].)  “Causes of action for intentional
and negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore, each element
must be pleaded with specificity.  [Citations.]”  (Daniels v.
Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) 
 
Similar to the other defendants
demurrers previously ruled on, Cochran, Inc. argues Plaintiff has failed to
show particular acts and elements of fraud necessary for its claim as it pertains
to Cochran, Inc. and the allegations set forth by plaintiff with respect to the
misrepresentation of ownership fly in the face of the public record. Moreover, other
portions of the fraud causes of action are conclusory and contradictory,
including there was no lien in favor of Roshmore.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
allegations of fraud read in conjunction with the alter ego, agency and
conspiracy allegations in the SAC satisfy the elements for fraud as enumerated
in in Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631 and elements for
conspiracy to commit fraud as detailed above in Prakashpalan v. Engstrom,
Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 1105. 
 
Like the demurrers brought by Appel,
Broederlow and Roshmore Development Inc., the court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. The SAC sufficiently alleges facts
to recover for misrepresentation under an alter ego theory against Cochran. Specifically,
the SAC alleges Defendants Appel and Broederlow, as officers and/or owners, on behalf
of Cochran, Lockhart, and Roshmore, are alter egos of Appel and acted in
concert to execute deed transfers and record a fraudulent deed of trust. These
alter ego allegations are sufficient to support a claim against Cochran. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrers to the second
and third causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
Stay
 
Defendant Cochran next demurs to the SAC
on the grounds the court’s ruling on the motion to stay pending appeal (Exh. A)
specifically limits further proceedings in the case except for a) administrative
matters b) collection of attorney’s fees and c) challenging pending pleadings,
i.e., the pending demurrers etc. 
 
As previously noted, the court allowed
the parties to perfect the pleadings while being stayed, which would include
demurrers to those pleadings.
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendant Cochran demurs to the
complaint on the grounds Liker has not alleged the requisite elements for
breach of contract. Defendant Cochran contends amongst other things, he fails
to indicate who he had a contract with nor has he attached the contract to the
SAC. 
 
The court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. As noted above, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged alter ego allegations against Cochran. Moreover, the
complaint alleges the parties entered into a contract whereby Liker agreed to
invest $250,000 of Liker’s money into the Cass Property and transferred the
funds and in return, would receive ownership and be made an officer of
Lockhart. The Defendants are alleged to have breached that agreement by never
providing ownership or making Plaintiff an officer of Lockhart.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action for breach of contract is OVERRULED.



