  Case Number:  20VECV00691    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  W SPOTLIGHT TICKET MANAGEMENT, INC. v. EBAY
INC., et al.
 
STUBHUB INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION SET 10
 
Date of Hearing:        March
21, 2024                                 Trial Date:       April 29, 2024 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        20VECV00691
 
Moving Party:            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Stubhub, Inc.  
Responding Party:     Plaintiff/Cross
Defendant Spotlight Ticket Management, Inc.
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Kuwahara Decl. ¶10.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Spotlight Ticket Management,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges that it had an agreement to serve as a member of the
StubHub Affiliate Program (the “Affiliate Program”) for Defendants eBay, Inc.
(“eBay”) and StubHub, Inc. (“StubHub”) (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff’s
role was to direct consumers to Defendants’ ticket platform in exchange for
commissions on orders. Plaintiff alleges that it was not being paid commissions
according to the terms and conditions of the Affiliate Program because StubHub was
underreporting and misrepresenting commissionable transactions owed to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants interfered with Plaintiff’s
contract, contractual interests, and business interests with non-party American
Express (“Amex”), which hired Plaintiff to manage its own ticketing platform as
part of a concierge service for Amex’s cardholders. More specifically,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants instructed Amex not to share data detailing
ticket purchases facilitated through StubHub, and this data helped Plaintiff to
discover the underpayment of money owed to them from Defendants. 
 
On August 28, 2020, Plaintiff filed its
original complaint against Defendants asserting causes of action for breach of
contract; breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; unjust
enrichment; quantum meruit; promissory estoppel; tortious interference; and
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices. Plaintiff’s operative Third
Amended Complaint was filed January 23, 2023.
 
On March 30, 2023, Stubhub, Inc. filed
a cross-complaint against Spotlight Ticket Management, Inc., Anthony Knopp,
Kenneth Hanscom, Joseph Greiner, Jen-Ban Ho, and Matthew Huff for fraud, trade
libel, breach of contract, and unjust enrichment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
Stubhub
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Requests for Production
Set 10 is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Stubhub, Inc. moves to compel
Plaintiff Spotlight Ticket Management, Inc. to provide further discovery
responses to Request for Production Set 10, specifically to produce the final
settlement agreement between Spotlight and Aspire (RFP No. 151), the draft
settlement agreements between Spotlight and Aspire (RFP No. 152), and the
communications between Spotlight and Aspire regarding the Kevin Bruce
declaration (RFP No. 153). Stubhub makes the motion on the grounds that
Spotlight has no basis to withhold the documents under the mediation privilege
as it claims as the documents StubHub seeks go directly to witness credibility and
communications between Spotlight and Aspire cannot be protected by
attorney-client privilege.
 
A motion to compel further responses to
a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (CCP § 2031.310(c).) The
motion must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) The
motion must also be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of any issue
presented by it. (See CCP §§ 2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).) Finally, a motion to
compel further responses to inspection demands must be accompanied by a
separate document that sets forth each item to which further response is
requested and the factual and legal reasons for compelling it. (CRC, rule
3.1345(a).) 
 
Stubhub contends it seeks basic,
critical information related to the settlement agreement that Spotlight entered
into with Aspire Lifestyles (Americas) Inc.—a company Spotlight sued and
accused of colluding with StubHub. Stubhub also seeks relevant communications
regarding a declaration signed by an Aspire employee that Spotlight obtained as
a result of the settlement. Stubhub first argues Spotlight’s say so that the
mediation privilege applies does not make it true. As the party claiming the
privilege, the burden is on Spotlight to establish that the mediation privilege
applies. But Spotlight’s responses do no such thing. Moreover, even if the
mediation privilege applied, the final settlement agreement is carved out and
must be produced. (See Cassel v. Superior Ct. (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 113, 124.)
Lastly, Stubhub argues the objections are meritless as the evidence is clearly
relevant and these requests expressly seek documents that were shared between
Spotlight and Aspire. To be protected, a document must be a “confidential
communication between client and lawyer.” (Evid. Code §954.) 
 
In opposition, Spotlight contends after
StubHub filed the instant motion to compel, the parties met and conferred. All
that remains at issue now is whether Spotlight needs to produce (1) the final
Spotlight-Aspire settlement agreement, which vests jurisdiction in the mediator
– and the mediator alone – as to its satisfaction, enforcement and finality, and
(2) an unredacted version of a single communication between Spotlight and
Aspire made outside the presence of the mediator where the mediator remained
engaged and the communication related specifically to carrying out the
directives of the mediator. Spotlight notes it has produced a redacted version where
communications not directly related to the mediation are unredacted. 
 
As for the remaining issues, Spotlight
argues the final settlement agreement is by its terms confidential and is
protected by Evidence Code section 1119. StubHub’s proposed interpretation of
the statute would render any and all settlement agreements discoverable by
third-parties to them, effectively rendering them barely more protected than
government-based public records. Moreover, StubHub should not be able to
conduct a fishing expedition into a highly confidential document, as it can
determine whether Kevin Bruce or the Aspire PMK are biased by asking them questions
at the depositions. However, if the court determines that the agreement should
be produced, then only a redacted version of the agreement should be produced
and designated as “highly confidential.” Lastly, the single, redacted communication
at issue is not discoverable beyond what has already been produced because
even though it took place after the settlement agreement was
executed,  the mediator remained engaged
and the redacted communications are specifically related to the mediation
process itself. 
 
The court finds the documents sought by
RFPs No. 151 discoverable. First, as noted by Stubhub themselves, Evidence Code
section 1123 provides for the disclosure of a written settlement agreement prepared
and executed in the course of mediation. As such, executed settlement
agreements are discoverable but not drafts. Nor has Stubhub demonstrated good
cause for drafts of the settlement agreement. The court notes discovery into
this specific instance would not essentially render all confidential settlement
agreements to be available as if they were the subject of a FOIA request as
Spotlight contends here. The discovery sought is relevant and falls within the
exception under the Evidence Code. As noted by Stubhub, this agreement resolved
the litigation between Spotlight and Aspire where Spotlight alleged that Aspire
and StubHub engaged in a “diversion scheme” to interfere with Spotlight’s
relationship with American Express and this is the same “scheme” that Spotlight
is suing StubHub for in this present litigation. 
 
As for RFP No. 153, Stubhub is ordered
to explain how the single communication regarding the Declaration of Kevin
Bruce is not materially related to the mediation as mediation confidentiality
protects communications and writings if they are materially related to, and
foster, the mediation, and it is to be applied where the writing, or statement
would not have existed but for a mediation communication, negotiation, or
settlement discussion. (Wimsatt v. Superior Court (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
137, 160.) 
 
As for how the documents are produced,
Spotlight is to produce the documents with the designation of “Highly Confidential”
under the protective order entered in this case.
 
Accordingly, Stubhub Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Requests
for Production Set 10 is GRANTED, in part. 