 Case Number:  24SMCV00523    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  ERIC JOHNER, et al.,   Plaintiff, v.  THE SCHIFF 605, LLC, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV00523     Hearing Date:  August 14, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO TAX COSTS            BACKGROUND  This case arises out of a landlord-tenant dispute.  The Schiff 605, LLC (“Landlord”) is the owner of the multi-unit apartment building located at 605 S. Barrington Ave., Los Angeles, California 90049 (the “Property”).  Plaintiff and Landlord, through its predecessor in interest, BQMM LLC, entered into a Lease regarding Apartment 37 at the Property (the “Premises”).  (Id. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff sued Landlord and two managers, Nikki Simon and Pamela Beauregard, for allegedly making him the target of a “psychopathic” neighbor’s violence, in order to force him out of his rent-controlled apartment.  Plaintiff later agreed to drop his claims against the individual managers after Landlord conceded their actions were within the course and scope of their employment.  The managers then filed a Memorandum of Costs, seeking $917.80 in filing fees, $1000 in attorney’s fees, and $23.55 in electronic filing or service fees. This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs.  Plaintiff argues that the request for  attorneys’ fees is not supported by any contract and in any event, had to be made by noticed motion.  Plaintiff also challenges the other costs on the ground they are not explained in any worksheet.   LEGAL STANDARD Generally, a “prevailing party” is entitled to costs. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1032(b); Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606.).  “A prevailing party who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs within 15 days after the date of mailing of the¿notice of entry of judgment… The memorandum of costs must be verified by a statement of the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her knowledge the items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred in the case.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700.) The losing party may contest the costs that a prevailing party seeks.  (CCP §1034(a).) The challenging party has the burden of demonstrating that those costs are unreasonable or unnecessary. (Adams v. Ford Motor Co.,¿(2011) 199 Cal. App. 4th 1475, 1486; 612¿South LLC v. Laconic Limited Partnership, (2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 1270, 1285.)  Code of Civil Procedure § 1033.5 sets forth the costs recoverable by the prevailing party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5.)  “Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §1033.5(c)(2); Perko’s Enterprises, Inc. v. RRNS Enterprises (l992) 4 Cal.App.4th 238, 244.)  A “properly verified memorandum of costs is considered prima facie evidence that the costs listed in the memorandum were necessarily incurred.”  (Bach v. County of Butte (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 294, 308; see also Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 677, 682.)   This puts the burden on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.  (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-74.)  If items are properly objected to, they are put in issue, and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. (Id.) The memorandum of costs need not contain invoices, billings, or statements.  (Bach, 215 Cal.App.3d at 308; see also Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(a)(1) (only verification required).) “Documentation must be submitted only when a party dissatisfied with the costs claimed in the memorandum challenges them by filing a motion to tax costs.”  (Bach, 215 Cal.App.3d at 308.)     ANALYSIS Plaintiff move to tax costs on the ground there is no contract that allows for recovery of attorneys’ fees.  The Court agrees.   California law provides that attorneys’ fees provisions apply to both signatories and non-signatories who have been sued “on a contract.”  (See Reynolds Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal. 3d 124, 128-129 (1979) (noting the purpose of Civil Code section 1717 is to “further provide a reciprocal remedy for a nonsignatory defendant, sued on a contract as if he were a party to it . . . .”).)  Here, Beauregard and Simon were not sued on a contract.  They were sued for violation of the anti-harassment ordinance, negligence and intentional infliction of emotional distress.  The contract claims were alleged only against Landlord.     In any event, Defendants failed to show how the fees were actually incurred, at what rates, and what portion was incurred for Simon and Beauregard, as opposed to Landlord which remains in the case and for whom all the same arguments were raised as with the other two defendants.  Defendants also seek attorneys’ fees in excess of that allowed in the lease, which allows recovery of attorneys’ fees for only $500 total, not $500 per prevailing party.  (Ex. 1 to Compl., paragraph 20.)    Plaintiff also moves to tax other costs on the ground there is insufficient documentation for them.  Once a moving party challenges the costs, the non-moving party must come forward with documentation.  Landlord failed to do so here.          CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs.  DATED:  August 14, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 

   Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  ERIC JOHNER,   Plaintiff, v.  THE SCHIFF 605, LLC, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV00523     Hearing Date:  August 14, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO AND    MOTION TO STRIKE TO    FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT      BACKGROUND  This case arises out of a landlord-tenant dispute.  The Schiff 605, LLC (“Landlord”) is the owner of the multi-unit apartment building located at 605 S. Barrington Ave., Los Angeles, California 90049 (the “Property”).  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶8.)  On or about June 1, 2009, Plaintiff Eric Johner and Landlord, through its predecessor in interest, BQMM LLC, entered into a Lease regarding Apartment 37 at the Property (the “Premises”.)  (Id. ¶ 11.)   Section 10 of the Lease provides: “Renter understands that the Premises are not in a full security complex and that Owner does not guarantee to employ security personnel to patrol the Premises to provide for Renter’s safety.”  (Ex. 1 to FAC.)  The parties also agreed in Section 10 that the “Owner does not take responsibility to mediate disputes between or among Renters and the obligation to resolve disputes with others on the Premises is accepted by Renter as one of the obligations of the tenancy.”  (Id.)  Section 10 of the Lease also states: “Each Renter assumes the risk of residing on the premises for himself or herself, his/her or their children and/or personal property without recourse against the Owner or Manager of the Premises.”  (Id.) Starting in or about 2019, the downstairs tenant (“Sean”) occupied Unit 17 at the Property, located directly below Plaintiff’s Unit 37.  (Id. ¶ 13.)  Sean had an extensive criminal record dating back to 2012, including convictions for assault, drug use, evading police arrest, DUI and reckless driving, and had been incarcerated in state prison.  (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges Sean’s criminal history would have been known to Landlord given it would have performed a background check on each prospective tenant.  (Id. ¶14.)   Plaintiff allegedly made several complaints to management about Sean making loud noises, but requested that his complaints be kept anonymous.  (Id. ¶¶ 15-17.)  Landlord failed to stop the noise, and worse still, Landlord purportedly identified to Sean that Plaintiff was the complaining party.  (Id. ¶18.)   Plaintiff claims Landlord did so to force Plaintiff out of the building and allow them to raise the rent on his “below-market apartment”.  (Id.)   The FAC alleges that Sean retaliated against Plaintiff by forcibly pounding on Plaintiff’s front door and windows, yelling obscenities and making violent threats against Plaintiff.  (Id. ¶¶ 19-23.)  Plaintiff reported these abuses to Landlord and requested Landlord take action to protect Plaintiff, but Landlord purportedly refused.  (Id. ¶25.) Based on judicially noticeable facts, Landlord contends it actually took steps to evict Sean.  Landlord posted a 3-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit on March 5, 2023.  (Ex. A to Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”).)  Sean was not present so the 3-Day Notice was posted at the Property on March 17, 2023.  Then, with no response to the 3-Day Notice, Landlord filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Sean.  (Id.)  The Court entered a default judgment for possession against Sean on June 23, 2023 and issued a writ of possession the same day.  (Ex. C to RJN.)  Sean was eventually evicted from the Property on August 3, 2023.  (Ex. D to RJN.)   In addition to Sean, Plaintiff claims he complained to Landlord about loud banging in his apartment caused by pipes when the heater was running.  (Id. ¶31.)  After sending several repairmen to inspect the issue, Plaintiff alleges Landlord decided not to make “easy” repairs.  (Id. ¶ 32.)  Plaintiff also complains that Landlord changed the gate code to the Property.  (Id. ¶34.)  Plaintiff claims he was locked out for an undisclosed amount of time because he was not timely provided the new gate code.  (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges these acts and/or omissions were part of Landlord’s scheme to force him out of his apartment.  (Id. ¶¶ 33, 36.)   The FAC alleges four claims for: (1) breach of lease, (2) violation of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance, (3) negligence and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress.   This hearing is on Landlord’s demurrer to and motion to strike the FAC.  Defendant argues that (1) Plaintiff’s first cause of action against Landlord for breach of the Lease is uncertain because it fails to identify any lease terms that Plaintiff asserts were breached; (2) Plaintiff’s second cause of action for violating the Tenant Anti-Harassing Ordinance fails because Plaintiff has not identified which subsection of the ordinance, if any, was purportedly violated; (3) Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for negligence fails because one cannot assert a negligence claim where Landlord’s acts were expressly authorized by the parties’ contract, and in any event, Landlord did take action to evict Sean; and (6) Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails because there is indisputable evidence Landlord initiated eviction proceedings against Sean, and the parties agreed in the Lease that Landlord is not obligated to mediate tenant disputes.     As to its motion to strike, Landlord argues (1) Plaintiff’s prayer for actual damages should be stricken because he fails to identify a specific amount of damages as required under Code Civ. Proc. §§ 425.10(a)(2); (2) Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages should be stricken because he has not alleged malice, oppression or fraud; (3) Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees should be capped at $500, as the Lease provides for only $500 in fees to the prevailing party, and (4) Plaintiff’s prayer for injunctive relief is uncertain and unintelligible.    MEET AND CONFER   Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)   Landlord submit the Declaration of Jeffrey Goodfried which attests the parties met and conferred by telephone.  (Goodfried Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff maintains, however, that Landlord never met and conferred on the issues discussed in its motion to strike.  (Lam Decl. ¶ 4.)  Notwithstanding, while Landlord appears not to have complied with its meet and confer obligations, the Court cannot deny a motion to strike on the grounds of an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a)(4).)   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  Landlord requests judicial notice of (1) the unlawful detainer complaint filed against “Sean”, Case No. 23SMUD00755, (2) the declaration of non-service verified by registered process server on or about May 3, 2023, (3) the writ of possession ordering the Sheriff’s Department to enforce the judgment of eviction at Apartment 17, issued in Case No. 23SMUD00755 on June 23, 2023, and (4) notice to vacate issued by the Sheriff’s Department noticing the eviction at Apartment 17 on August 3, 2023.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452(c), 452(d), 452(h), and 453. LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.¿ A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿ A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).)¿ The term uncertain means “ambiguous and unintelligible.”¿ (Id.)¿ A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿ A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   The court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) DISCUSSION Breach of Lease Landlord argues that Plaintiff’s breach of lease claim fails because it is uncertain and also because the alleged breaches are expressly allowed under the Lease.  The Court disagrees in part.   The Complaint alleges a series of alleged breaches – i.e., revealing Plaintiff’s identity to Sean, failing to provide sufficient security, failing to address Sean’s violent behavior, failing to evict Sean, changing the security codes without notifying Plaintiff, and refusing to repair the noisy pipes in the walls of Plaintiff’s unit.  (FAC ¶ 42.)  However, Plaintiff has not explained how any of these alleged acts and/or omissions breached any provisions of the Lease.  Indeed, Plaintiff concedes the obligations he seeks to impose are “not expressly stated in his lease.”  (Opp. at 4:8.)  Rather than citing to a specific provision in the Lease, Plaintiff maintains that Landlord breached the covenant of quiet enjoyment that is implied by law in each residential lease.  (FAC ¶ 42.)  The necessary elements for breach of the covenant of¿quiet enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2) the absence of language¿contrary to the implied covenant that tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) an act or omission of the landlord, or anyone claiming under the landlord, which substantially interferes with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the premises for purposes contemplated; and (4) an applicable remedy.¿ (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588-591.) Here, Plaintiff claims a breach of quiet enjoyment based on Landlord’s failure to prevent Sean’s harassment.  (FAC ¶ 42.)  But the Lease contains language contrary to the implied covenant Plaintiff seeks to impose.  The Lease expressly provides the Landlord was not required to mediate disputes between tenants; that Plaintiff assumes the risk of residing on the premises for himself or herself without recourse against the Owner or Manager of the Premises, and Landlord does not guarantee to provide security personnel.  (Ex. 1 to FAC, Section 10.)   Notwithstanding, Plaintiff goes further and alleges Landlord actively incited Sean’s violence.  This is different than a mere failure to mediate, and could give rise to a claim for breach of quiet enjoyment as these acts would “substantially interfere[] with [Plaintiff’s] right to use and enjoy the premises for purposes contemplated.”  (Andrews, 125 Cal.App.4th at 588-591.) Plaintiff also claims Landlord failed “to provide heat that functioned free from banging and noise, depriving Plaintiff of sleep and heat in the winter months”.  (FAC ¶ 42(e).)  Given the noise, Plaintiff was forced to choose between being unable to sleep with the noise or going without heat.  While annoying, the Court cannot conclude that noisy pipes constitute a substantial interference.  This is different than cases which have found that a lack of heat may support a breach of quiet enjoyment.  (Green v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 638 fn. 22.)  Here, there was heat at the apartment; the pipes were just noisy.   Notwithstanding, because at least part of the claim is not susceptible to a demurrer, the Court overrules the demurrer to the first cause of action.    Anti-Harassment Ordinance Landlord argues that Plaintiff’s violation of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance is uncertain because Plaintiff fails to specify which of the sixteen items under the ordinance were committed by Landlord.  The Court disagrees.   Section¿45.33 is a tenant harassment statute that prohibits landlords from knowingly and willfully committing certain conduct against tenants that serves no lawful purpose.  Under Section 45.33 of the Municipal Code, there are sixteen (16) items that constitute harassment.  The Complaint fails to identify which subsection, if any, apply here.  While Plaintiff identifies the subsections in a declaration, the Court cannot consider the declaration on a demurrer.     Notwithstanding, Section 151.33 provides that in addition to the sixteen items that constitute harassment in Section 45.33, tenant harassment also includes offering payments to a tenant to vacate their unit without providing written notice to the tenant of their rights under Section 151.31 of the Code (Tenant Buyout Notification Program).  Plaintiff alleges Landlord offered payments to Plaintiff to vacate his unit, without the required notice set forth in Section 151.31.  (FAC ¶ 50.) Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to Plaintiff’s claim for violation of the Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance. Negligence Landlord argues that Plaintiff’s negligence claim fails because Plaintiff cannot claim negligence based on conduct allowed in the Lease; allegations that Landlord failed to prevent Sean from engaging in retaliatory and harassing conduct toward Plaintiff are demonstrably false as Landlord evicted Sean; insofar as Plaintiff asserts a theory of negligence per se, he fails to identify any of the “several statutes and laws” upon which his claim is purportedly based, and as to any negligence claim based on the noisy pipes, Plaintiff has not alleged a causal nexus between noisy pipes and his resulting injury.  The Court disagrees.     To be sure, Plaintiff cannot assert a negligence claim based on Landlord’s failure to mediate the dispute between Sean and Plaintiff because the lease expressly disclaims Landlord’s responsibility to do so.  However, Plaintiff alleges that Landlord was not a mere bystander, but rather actively incited Sean’s violence.  “It is well established … that one’s general duty to exercise due care includes the duty not to place another person in a situation in which the other person is exposed to an unreasonable risk of harm through the reasonably foreseeable conduct (including the reasonably foreseeable negligent conduct of a third person).”  (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 119.)     As for the noisy pipes, Plaintiff fails to state a claim for negligence.  Negligence requires “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 913, 917).  Plaintiff alleges there was mismanagement at the property, but fails to allege the causal nexus between noisy pipes and his resulting injury.  Reading the FAC as a whole, the injury—anxiety and emotional distress—comes from Plaintiff’s conflict with “Sean” as opposed to noisy pipes.  Without damages, there is no negligence.   However, a demurrer cannot be made to a portion of a claim.  (See¿Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1167.)¿ Accordingly, even though Plaintiff’s noisy pipe theory cannot support a negligence claim, the other portion of his claim – relating to Landlord’s “sic’ing” Sean on Plaintiff – can constitute negligence.   Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to the negligence claim.    Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Landlord argues that Plaintiff’s claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails because the alleged wrongdoing in failing to protect Plaintiff from Sean is expressly allowed under the Lease and in any event, there is undisputable evidence that Defendants evicted Sean. The Court disagrees. The elements of a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.)  “Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Id.)   Here, to the extent Plaintiff’s intentional infliction claim rests on Landlord’s alleged failure to repair noisy pipes (FAC ¶ 70), that omission cannot conceivably constitute extreme and outrageous conduct.  A failure to repair noisy pipes in a 50 year old building is not so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.   However, the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s allegation that Landlord actively “sic’d” Sean on him, knowing of his violent tendencies, could support a finding that Landlord engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct.  Whether a defendant’s conduct rises to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct is generally a question of fact for the jury.  Our role is limited to determining whether reasonable persons could differ on the question.  When reasonable persons may differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct in a particular case has been sufficiently extreme and outrageous to result in liability.  (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.)  The Court concludes that reasonable minds could differ on the question whether Landlord’s intentional incitement of Sean in an effort to get Plaintiff to vacate his rent-controlled apartment would constitute extreme and outrageous conduct.     Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to Plaintiff’s intentional infliction of emotional distress claim.     Actual Damages Landlord moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for actual damages on the ground Plaintiff has failed to state the amount of its actual damages.  As Plaintiff points out, however, under Code Civ. Proc. § 425.10(b), if the action is “brought to recover actual or punitive damages for personal injury or wrongful death, the amount demanded shall not be stated.”  Plaintiff’s claims are for personal injury, and therefore, Plaintiff was not required to state the amount of actual damages demanded.     Punitive Damages Landlord moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages on the ground Plaintiff has not alleged malice, oppression or fraud.  The Court disagrees. “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (citations omitted).)   Allegations that merely plead the statutory phraseology are wholly insufficient to state a basis for recovery of punitive damages.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.)  Conclusory characterizations of defendant’s conduct as willful, intentional or fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of the necessary factual grounds for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)     Cal. Civ. Code § 3294 provides the basis upon which punitive damages can be recovered.  Punitive damages may only be sought where there is clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud:  (c)(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended to cause injury to the plaintiff or   despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and   conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (c)(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust   hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  (c)(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a   material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the     defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.  (Civ. Code §3294.) Section 3294 was amended in 1987 to increase the burden of proof required in order to allege a punitive damages claim as well as to raise the level of misconduct necessary for an award of punitive damages.  The California Supreme Court has ruled that the insertion of the word “despicable” in section 3294 created a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “Despicable” means conduct that is “so vile, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)  “Such conduct has been described as having the character of outrage frequently associated with [a] crime.”  (Id.) Punitive damages are disfavored by public policy and are allowed only under the most extreme circumstances and in the “clearest of cases.”  (Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 9.)  “To contain the generosity and emotionality of juries, appellate courts have set the threshold high in defining situations in which punitive damages can be given.  Conduct which may be characterized as unreasonable, negligent, grossly negligent or reckless does not satisfy the highly culpable state of mind warranting punitive damages.  Conduct which warrants punitive damages must be of such severity or shocking character [as] warrants the same treatment as accorded willful misconduct – conduct in which defendant intends to cause harm.”  (Id. at 10 (internal quotations and citations omitted).)  Here, Plaintiff has pled that Landlord sic’d Sean on Plaintiff, knowing of his criminal record and violent tendencies, in a calculated attempt to force Plaintiff out of a rent-controlled apartment so that they could then rent the apartment for a higher rent.  These allegations are sufficient to support a finding of the despicable conduct required for malice or oppression.   Attorneys’ Fees Landlord moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees arguing that the Lease limits the fees to $500 so Plaintiff was required to specifically state in the Complaint that he only seeks fees for $500.  Landlord fails to cite any caselaw requiring Plaintiff to state the specific amount of attorneys’ fees sought at the pleading stage.  The Court declines to impose such a limitation in the absence of any authority.     Injunctive Relief Landlord moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief on the ground it is “unclear, uncertain and undecipherable.”  The FAC prays for “an injunction for Defendants to provide Plaintiff.”  Not only is this request incomplete, uncertain, and unintelligible, but Plaintiff makes no effort to address it in his Opposition.  As Plaintiff has failed to oppose Landlord’s motion to strike his prayer for an injunction, the Court will strike the prayer. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court OVERRULES Landlord’s demurrer to the FAC, and GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART its motion to strike with 20 days’ leave to amend.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: August 14, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  
