  Case Number:  21STCV07164    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47  HEARING DATE:     March 15, 2024                      TRIAL  DATE: NOT SET                                                           CASE:                         Americo Financial Life and Annuity Ins.  Co. v. Michelle Lyn Smallwood, et al. CASE NO.:                 21STCV07164             DEMURRER;  AND REQUEST FOR DISMISSAL MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendant Americo Financial Life & Annuity  Ins. Co. RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on  eCourt as of 01/31/24 CASE  HISTORY:·          02/23/21: Complaint filed.·          08/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed.  STATEMENT  OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:                        This is an action for statutory interpleader to deposit disputed proceeds  from a set of annuity contracts. Cross-Defendant Americo Financial  Ins. Co. demurs to the Cross-Complaint filed by Michelle Lynn Smallwood in its  entirety.   The Court held a hearing on the  demurrer on February 5, 2024, when Ms. Smallwood appeared and contended that  she had not been properly served with the papers.  Counsel for Cross-Defendant submitted a  declaration detailing the extensive efforts made to ensure that Ms. Smallwood  received the moving papers.  The Court  finds that Ms. Smallwood was properly served but has filed no opposition, so it  is proper to rule on the merits of the pending demurrer.              TENTATIVE RULING: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.             Plaintiff in Interpleader Americo  Financial Life & Annuity Ins. Co.’s Request for Dismissal is re-set for  this date and GRANTED.  DISCUSSION: Cross-Defendant Americo Financial  Ins. Co. demurs to the Cross-Complaint filed by Michelle Lynn Smallwood in its  entirety.  Legal Standard A demurrer tests whether the cross-complaint  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,  747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in  context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)  144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be  apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian  v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The ultimate facts  alleged in the [cross-] complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts  that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall v.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields  v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n  demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are  assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the  reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the  defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th  1228, 1238.)  Meet and Confer Before filing a demurrer, the  demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party  who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration  detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)  However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds  to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.41(a)(4).)             Counsel for  Cross-Defendant filed a declaration stating that she e-mailed Cross-Complainant  concerning this demurrer on September 18, 2023, and then again on September 25,  2023. (Declaration of Jill Glennon ISO Demurrer ¶¶ 2-3; Exh. A.)  Cross-Defendant received no response. (Id.) The Court concludes that  Cross-Defendant has complied with the statutory meet-and-confer requirements.  // //Request for Judicial Notice             Cross-Defendant  requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint in this  action; (2) Cross-Defendant’s Motion for Leave to Deposit Interpleader Funds in  this action; (3) Cross-Complainant’s Notice of Related Case; (4) the Petition  in the probate matter In re the Matter of the Constance Hilton Revocable  Trust dated May 29, 2013, LASC Case No. 21STPB02506; (5) The Notice of  Deposit of Interpleader Funds in this action; (6) Cross-Defendant’s status  conference statement; (7) the June 5, 2023 Minute Order in this action; (8) the  July 12, 2023 Minute Order in this action; (9) the August 11, 2023 Minute Order  in this action; (10) Cross-Defendant’s August 28, 2023 Notice of Ruling in this  action; and (11) the Declaration of John Joplin In Support of Motion for Leave  to Deposit Interpleader Funds filed in this action.             Cross-Defendant’s  Requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records).  Procedural History             Before  addressing Cross-Defendant’s challenges to the Cross-Complaint, a brief review  of the procedural history is appropriate. Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Americo  filed a complaint in interpleader naming Cross-Complainant Smallwood and Victor  Daigle as Defendants. (RJN Exh. 1.) The complaint alleges that Plaintiff sold two  annuity contracts in late 2003 to Constance Marie Hilton, who made several  changes to the designated beneficiaries on those contracts several times  before  her death on October 10, 2020.  (Complaint ¶¶ 9-13.) Until 2014, the Complaint alleges, Ms. Hilton made those  alterations herself. (Id.) Afterward, Defendant Smallwood and another  individual, Sandra Quiroz, submitted further change requests pursuant to powers  of attorney that each claimed to have obtained from Ms. Hilton. (Id.) This  dispute arose from a pair of beneficiary change requests: the first sought by  Defendant Smallwood in her favor on August 5, 2019, and the second from Ms. Quiroz  in favor of Defendant Daigle shortly afterwards. (Complaint ¶ 12.)              After the  passing of Constance Hilton, Defendants made competing claims to the funds:  Defendant Smallwood claimed that the change form submitted by Ms. Quiroz was a  forgery, and Defendant Daigle claimed that it was valid and effective.  (Complaint ¶ 13.) This Complaint in interpleader followed, and Plaintiff moved  for leave to deposit the funds and be dismissed from the action. (RJN Exh. 2.) Defendant  Smallwood sought to relate this action to a pending probate action which she  also filed, and the actions were deemed related and transferred to the Judge in  the probate action, the Honorable Brenda Penny. (See RJN Exhs. 3-4.) Judge  Penny granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Deposit Interpleader Funds on  November 1, 2021. (RJN Exh. 5.) At the close of the probate action, this matter  was transferred back to this Court to enforce the dismissal, at which time  Defendant Smallwood asserted her claim that Plaintiff is not a disinterested  party. (RJN Exhs. 6, 7.) The Court permitted Defendant to assert her claims in  the form of a cross-complaint, and, after several attempts, deemed her amended  Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint as the appropriate pleading. (RJN Exh.  10.) Effect of Judge Penny’s Ruling             Cross-Defendant  argues that Cross-Complainant’s causes of action are all barred by Judge  Penny’s ruling dismissing the interpleader. Cross-Defendant argues that the  cross-claims are an improper attempt at a motion for reconsideration under Code  of Civil Procedure section 1008. The Court is hesitant to adopt this conclusion  where it is not apparent from the record what issues were before Judge Penny in  ruling on the Motion for Leave to Deposit Interpleader Funds. (RJN Exh. 5.) The  Court therefore is not persuaded that Judge Penny’s ruling serves as a complete  bar to the cross-claims. In any case, this question is a moot point, because  all three causes of action are fatally defective for the reasons stated below.  First Cause of Action             Cross-Defendant  demurs to the first cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.              The  Cross-Complaint alleges that Constance Holt was not empowered to request a  beneficiary change as of December 10, 2014. According to Cross-Complainant, Ms.  Holt was placed in a conservatorship between May 21, 2014, and June 16, 2015.  (Cross Complaint p. 3:25-28.) A beneficiary change was made on December 10,  2014, allegedly without the conservator having first sought leave via noticed  motion to make such a change. (Id. p.4:9-12.) The Cross-Complaint also  alleges that Americo improperly rescinded Cross-Complainant’s beneficiary  status based on a request received from Ms. Quiroz on September 23, 2019. (Id.  p.4:13-16.) According to the Cross-Complaint, Cross-Defendant “suspected  Constance’s signature was a forgery,” did not provide some unspecified  “notice,” and knew that their actions “were not authorized.” (Id. p. 4:18-23.)               Cross-Defendant  contends that this cause of action is defective because it does not actually  allege any wrongful act by Cross-Defendant, nor any interest in this action  that would deprive Cross-Defendant of the right to interplead. The Court  concurs. The factual claims asserted go directly to the basis for interpleader:  that there is a set of funds to which various parties have competing claims  whose validity is disputed between them. (See, e.g., Lehto v. Allstate Ins.  Co. (1994) 31 Cal.App.4th 60, 69-71, as modified (Jan. 13, 1995.) Moreover,  the Cross-Complaint alleges no facts which would give rise to the conclusion  that Cross-Defendant suspected the signature was a forgery, and none of the many  statutes cited by Cross-Complainant impose any duty on Cross-Defendant. (See  Probate Code. §§ 811 [basis for finding lack of mental capacity]; 2580  [conservator petitions]; 4406 [compelling third party to honor agent’s  authority]; 4609 [definition of capacity].)              Accordingly,  Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. // Second Cause of Action             Cross-Defendant  demurs to the second cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.             The second  cause of action pertains entirely to statements and omissions made by  Cross-Defendant in its filings in this action. Statements made in litigation  are absolutely privileged and may not serve as a basis for liability. (Civ.  Code § 47 (2).) This cause of action is therefore fatally deficient.             Accordingly,  Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  Third Cause of Action             Cross-Defendant  demurs to the third cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.              The third  cause of action complains that Judge Penny did not provide Cross-Complainant with  a fair opportunity to pursue her claims. These contentions are entirely  irrelevant in the context of an interpleader action, where the only issue is  whether the interpleader is proper. This cause of action is therefore also  fatally deficient.             Accordingly,  Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. Uncertainty Cross-Defendant also demurs to each cause of action as  uncertain.  A demurrer  for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some  respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery  procedures."  (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)  14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  "A demurrer for uncertainty will be  sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot  reasonably respond--i.e., he or she cannot reasonable determine what issues  must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him  or her."  (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter  Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) "The objection of uncertainty does  not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts."  (Brea v.  McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.)            Although  the Cross-Complaint is not especially clear or artfully constructed, the Court  does not find the pleadings to be so vague that Cross-Defendant could not  determine what is asserted against it. Rather, the factual allegations asserted  in the Cross-Complaint are apparent; it is the legal insufficiency of those  facts to constitute a cause of action that renders the Cross-Complaint  defective.  Leave to Amend             When a  demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable  possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) California law imposes the burden on the party  who filed the pleading to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their  pleadings to state their claims.  (See Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of  discretion unless the [pleading] shows on its face it is incapable of  amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the  rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."  (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)             Cross-Complainant has not responded  to the demurrer and has failed to demonstrate how the Cross-Complaint could be  amended to cure the defects identified by Cross-Defendant. Moreover, the  factual basis for the claims shows that there is no actual challenge to  Cross-Defendant’s right to interplead the funds. Cross-Complainant’s factual  claims do not demonstrate any interest in the disputed funds, and largely go  directly to the dispute that makes interpleader necessary in the first place. Further,  the second cause of action is entirely barred by the litigation privilege, and  the third cause of action does not relate to Cross-Defendant at all. The Court  therefore finds that leave to amend is inappropriate in this case.  CONCLUSION:             Accordingly, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s  Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to  amend.              Plaintiff in Interpleader Americo  Financial Life & Annuity Ins. Co.’s Request for Dismissal is re-set for  this date and GRANTED.              Moving Party to give notice.  IT IS SO ORDERED. Dated: March 15, 2024                                   ___________________________________                                                                                    Theresa  M. Traber                                                                                    Judge  of the Superior Court     