 Case Number:  22STCV39646    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 15, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: August 13, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         3BTech Inc. v. Great Northern Ins. Co.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV39646            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Great Northern Insurance Co. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff 3BTech,
Inc. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is a breach of contract action
that was filed on December 6, 2021. Plaintiff seeks coverage for the loss of
inventory destroyed by a fire while in the care of the insured non-party
Pro-Com Products, Inc.
 
Defendant Great Northern Ins. Co
moves to compel further responses to form interrogatories, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED IN PART with respect to
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 and Request for Admission No. 12 only. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
verified, code-compliant supplemental responses within 20 days of this order. 
 
            Defendant’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Defendant
moves to compel further responses to form interrogatories propounded to
Plaintiff. 
 
Legal Standards
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.
 
Meet and
Confer
 
A party making a
motion to compel further responses must include a declaration stating facts
showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues
presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2016.040, 2030.310(b).) 
 
The Declaration of Eliot
Cartwright attached to this motion states that the parties met and conferred
via email concerning the operative responses to Defendant’s discovery between January
3 and February 6, 2024, without success. (Declaration of Eliot L. Cartwright
ISO Mot. ¶¶ 16-20, Exhs. L-N.) Defendant has therefore complied with its
statutory meet-and-confer obligation. 
 
Timeliness
 
A
motion to compel a further response must be noticed within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental response, or on or before
any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c),
2031.310(c); see also Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) Otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel further responses. (Id.) The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.
App. 4th 1403, 1410.)
 
The
undisputed facts show that Plaintiff’s operative supplemental responses to the
discovery at issue were served on November, 2023. (Cartwright Decl. ¶ 15 Exh. K.)
Defendant has provided email exchanges showing that the parties agreed to
extend the deadline to file this motion to February 16, 2024. (Id. Exh. N.)
This motion was filed and served on that date and is therefore timely. 
 
//
 
//
Analysis
 
            Defendant moves to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 with respect to Requests for
Admissions Nos. 10 through 12, 14, and 15 propounded to Plaintiff. Defendant
propounded a full set of discovery, including form and special interrogatories,
requests for production, and requests for admissions on December 16, 2022. (Defendant’s
Exhs. A, C.) 
 
            Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 asks,
for each response to the accompanying requests for admission that is not an
unqualified admission, for the respondent to state (a) the number of the
request, (b) all facts upon which the response is based, (c) the contact
information of all persons with knowledge of those facts, and (d) identify all
documents and other tangible things supporting the response and the contact
information of each person who has them. (See Defendant’s Exh. C. No. 17.1) 
 
            Request
for Admission No. 10 asked Plaintiff to admit that the attached document
defined as the Pro-Com Inventory did not separately set forth that any of the
property described therein was owned or controlled by Plaintiff, rather than
another entity, at the time of the warehouse fire. (See Defendant’s Exh. A. No.
10.) The remainder of the requests at issue, Nos. 11 through 15, asked
Plaintiff to admit that the masks identified in the inventory as “WhiteList
N95” were not listed on the FDA’s White List as personal protective equipment
authorized to be sold in the United States, (No. 11), were not certified by any
regulatory body (No. 12), and did not satisfy KN95 (No. 14), or N95
requirements. (No. 15.) 
 
            Plaintiff,
in response to each request for admission at issue, objected to identification
of the inventory list as belonging solely to Pro-Com, and objected to the terms
“certified by a governmental agency, regulator, law enforcement administration,
or independent laboratory” and the phrases “KN95 requirements,” and “N95
requirements” as ambiguous and compound. (Defendant’s Exh. D. Nos. 10-12, 14, 15.)
However, Plaintiff also responded to each request with a categorical denial
subject to those objections. (Id.) Plaintiff’s responses were
supplemented on July 19, 2023. (Cartwright Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. I.) Defendant moved
to compel further responses on October 12, 2023. (Id. ¶ 14.) The Court
granted that motion on November 6, 2023, finding that Plaintiff’s initial
supplemental responses were inadequate and evasive. (November 6, 2023 Minute
Order.) 
 
            Turning now
to Plaintiff’s operative supplemental response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1,
Plaintiff responded with respect to these requests for admissions as follows:
 
Supplemental Response to Requests for
Admission 10:
 
(b) Exhibit “C” to the Supplemental
Request for Admissions Set One is a inventory list provided by Greenspan Public
Adjusters to both Great Northern and Liberty Mutual insurance adjusters after
the 12/4/2020 fire that represents all stock at the facility at the time of the
12/4/2020 fire, including both 3BTech and Pro-Com inventories. Exhibit “C” sets
forth the inventory that was owned both 3BTech and Pro-Com. Exhibit “C”
identifies all inventory that was present at the 1250 Bixby facility and owned
by both 3BTech and Pro-Com to the exclusion of any other company. The inventory
listing utilizes identifiers, including “3B-Pro-ComDS” to identify the
inventory at the location as inventory of either 3BTech or Pro-Com to the
exclusion of any other company. 
 
(c) Johnny Zhu –President of 3BTech, to
be contacted through counsel; Brett Barbour – former President of 3BTech, to be
contacted through counsel; Kevin Stranger – Greenspan public adjuster. Each of
the above have information relevant to the inventory list submitted to Great
Northern Insurance in the days and weeks after the subject fire. 
 
(d) 3BTECH1314-1329;
 
Supplemental Response to Request for
Admission 11, and 12:
 
(b) Exhibit “C” to the Supplemental
Request for Admissions Set One is an inventory list provided by Greenspan
Public Adjusters to both Great Northern and Liberty Mutual insurance adjusters
after the 12/4/2020 fire that represents all stock at the facility at the time
of the 12/4/2020 fire, including both 3BTech and Pro-Com inventories. This
request is ambiguous as to specific items within the inventory and is ambiguous
as to the reference to “Food and Drug Administration's ‘White List.’” [No. 11],
“certified by a governmental agency, regulator, law enforcement administration,
or independent laboratory.” [No. 12], Moreover, this request is ambiguous as to
the time referenced. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, government agencies
issued emergency authorizations for use and other waivers and eligibility
criteria modifying the qualified manufacturers and product equivalencies, among
other requirements. The use of “whitelist N95” on the referenced inventory was
an internal identifier at the 1250 Bixby warehouse, not public, and is not
intended to suggest that such masks were N95 masks. As of the date of the fire,
those masks at the 1250 Bixby facility identified under the moniker “whitelist
N95” were masks that are believed at that time to constitute eligible alternatives
to N95 masks under the various emergency use authorizations issued in 2020,
during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
[Request No. 12 only: Certification
information available after the fire for the Personal Protective Equipment
inventory in the 1250 Bixby warehouse on or about December 4, 2020 were
disclosed and produced as 3BTECH 1728-1795.]
 
 
 
(c) Johnny Zhu – current President of
3BTech, to be contacted through counsel; Brett Barbour – former President of
3BTech, to be contacted through counsel;
 
 (d) Those documents relevant to the testing
and certification that survived the fire and 3BTECH presently possesses were
disclosed and produced as 3BTECH 1728-1795.
 
Supplemental Response to Requests Nos.
14 and 15:
 
(b) Exhibit “C” to the Supplemental
Request for Admissions Set One is an inventory list provided by Greenspan
Public Adjusters to both Great Northern and Liberty Mutual insurance adjusters
after the 12/4/2020 fire that represents all stock at the facility at the time
of the 12/4/2020 fire, including both 3BTech and Pro-Com inventories. This
request is ambiguous as to specific items within the inventory and is ambiguous
as to the reference to “[K/N95] requirements.” (Nos. 14/15). Moreover, this
request is ambiguous as to the time referenced. Throughout the COVID-19
pandemic, government agencies issued emergency authorizations for use and other
waivers and eligibility criteria modifying the qualified manufacturers and
product equivalencies, among other requirements. All masks which constituted “[K/N95]”
(Nos. 14/15) masks, as of the date of the fire, at the 1250 Bixby facility are
believed to have complied with all [K/N95] (Nos. 14/15) requirements.
 
 (c) Johnny Zhu – current President of 3BTech,
to be contacted through counsel; Brett Barbour – former President of 3BTech, to
be contacted through counsel; 
 
(d) Those documents relevant to the
testing and certification that survived the fire and 3BTECH presently possesses
were disclosed and produced as 3BTECH 1728-1795.
 
(Defendant’s Exh. K. No. 17.1.) 
 
            With
respect to Request No. 10, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s supplemental response
is evasive on its face since it does not address whether the document indicates
ownership of any of the products stored at the warehouse, as required by the
Court’s previous order. The Court disagrees. Unlike Plaintiff’s previous
response, the supplemental response categorically states that the inventory
sheet identifies listed products as jointly owned by 3BTech and Pro-Com, identifies
witnesses who might have relevant information, and lists relevant documents.
This is a full and complete response, and no further response is required. 
 
            As to the
remaining requests, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s responses constitute
little more than rearrangement of its previous inadequate supplemental
responses. The matter is not as simple as Defendant presents it to be. With
respect to Request No. 11, Plaintiff’s admission that the designation
“WhiteList N95” should not be taken to mean a regulatory designation as such
certainly undermines Plaintiff’s denial of Request for Admission No. 11. The
Court is not persuaded, however, that this response is evasive with
respect to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 rather than, at worst, an admission that
there is no factual basis for the denial.  As the requests for admissions themselves are
not at issue on this motion, arguments that Plaintiff should have admitted the
request are not material here. However, Plaintiff’s supplemental response
remains deficient with respect to Request No. 12 because it still does not
clearly address whether the masks were subject to any form of regulatory
approval at the time of the fire. An explanation that the masks were not
actually “WhiteList N95s” is not sufficient. Defendant is therefore entitled to
a further response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 with respect to Request No.
12.
 
            As to the
remaining requests, Plaintiff’s supplemental responses state categorically that
the masks identified as “KN95” or “N95” masks are believed to have complied
with KN95 and N95 requirements, in response to a request for admission that the
masks did not comply with those standards. This is a straightforward response
to a straightforward request for admission, and further responses are not
required. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
also requests monetary and nonmonetary sanctions for Plaintiff’s inadequate
responses. As neither party fully prevailed on the motion, the Court declines
to award sanctions here. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED IN PART with
respect to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 as to Request for Admission No. 12 only.

 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
verified, code-compliant supplemental responses within 20 days of this order. 
 
            Defendant’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 15, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before
the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It should be
noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a
hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in
essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be
aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which
modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 