 Case Number:  23STCV27281    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 15, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Red Target, LLC v. First Class Video
Productions, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV27281            
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE ANSWER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Red Target, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Shalita
Laverne Ladson, in pro per.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract action filed on November 7, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants agreed to finance Plaintiff’s purchase of video
equipment and defaulted on the payments set forth in the agreement. 
 
Plaintiff moves to strike the
unverified answer of Defendant Shalita Ladson to the verified Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike the
Answer is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Ladson’s February 13, 2024 answer is also stricken as improper on the Court’s
own motion. 
 
            Defendants
shall have 20 days leave to file an Amended Answer that is verified per code
and addresses each allegation in the Complaint individually. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to strike the
unverified answer of Defendant Shalita Ladson to the verified Complaint. 
 
//
            
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to
the motion to strike and file a declaration detailing their meet and confer
efforts.  Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).
However, an
insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or deny a motion
to strike.  Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(4). 
 
The Declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel states that he emailed Defendant
Ladson on January 4, 2024 to discuss the sufficiency of her answer to the
Complaint, but did not receive a response. (Declaration of Barry W. Ferns ISO
Mot. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that he does not have Defendant’s
telephone number. (Id.) Plaintiff has therefore satisfied its statutory
meet and confer obligations. 
 
Timeliness
            
            A party may bring a motion to strike
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading. Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b);
Cal. Rules of Court 3.1322(b). A motion to strike all or part of an answer to a
complaint must therefore be brought within 10 days. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
430.40(b); Cal. Rules of Court 3.1322(b).) The Court has the power, however, to
strike out all or any part of a pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court on its own
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The Court therefore has the authority to
consider the matter at any time, even after the statutory deadline has passed. CPF
Agency Corp v. R&S Towing (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1021 overruled
on other grounds in Dan’s City Used Cars Inc. v. Pelkey (2013) 569 U.S.
251. 
            
            Defendant’s answer entitled “My
Response” was filed on December 5, 2023.  Plaintiff’s motion is therefore untimely under
section 435. However, the Court will exercise its authority to consider the
matter despite the late filing of this motion.
 
Legal Standard
            
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id., § 436. The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Id.§ 437.) “When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to
amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) A motion to strike can be used where the
complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
applicable rules or court orders.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) This
provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its
form or in the procedures pursuant to which it was filed." 
(Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis
in original).)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves to strike Defendant Ladson’s answer because it is an unverified general
denial. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 431.30 states, in relevant part, that “[i]f the
complaint is verified, [. . .] the denial of the allegations shall be made
positively or according to the information and belief of the defendant.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 431.30(d).) Further, Code of Civil Procedure section 466 states:
 
When the complaint is verified, the
answer shall be verified. In all cases of a verification of a pleading, the
affidavit of the party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge,
except as to the matters which are therein stated on his or her information or
belief, and as to those matters that he or she believes it to be true; and
where a pleading is verified, it shall be by the affidavit of a party, unless
the parties are absent from the county where the attorney has his or her
office, or from some cause unable to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge
of his or her attorney or other person verifying the same.
 
. . . 
 
A person verifying a pleading need not
swear to the truth or his or her belief in the truth of the matters stated
therein but may, instead, assert the truth or his or her belief in the truth of
those matters “under penalty of perjury.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 466.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Complaint is verified under penalty of perjury pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 466. (See Complaint Verification.) Defendant Ladson’s Answer,
on the other hand, is not, nor does it engage with each allegation in the
Complaint with specificity to affirm, deny based on facts, deny on information
and belief, or deny for lack of information. (See December 5, 2023 Response.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant Ladson claims that she was the victim of identity theft
and has no involvement with any of the other parties in this case. This is a
very serious claim and is potentially a complete defense to the entire action.
However, that claim does not cure the procedural defects in the Answer. The
answer is therefore improper and must be stricken. 
 
//
 
Defendant’s Unauthorized Answer
 
            Defendant filed
a second, unauthorized answer to the Complaint on February 13, 2024. This
answer is substantially identical to the answer filed on December 5, 2023, and
contains the same defects as the first, including, critically, the absence of a
verification. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
California law imposes the burden
on the party who filed the pleading to demonstrate the manner in which they can
amend their pleadings to state their claims.  (See Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes
an abuse of discretion unless the [pleading] shows on its face it is incapable
of amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court strike the answer and immediately enter default against
Defendant Ladson.  The defects in the
Answer on their face appear to be the result of a lack of familiarity with the
complexities of the civil justice system. In light of Defendant’s claim that
she is the victim of identity fraud and is therefore not a proper Defendant,
the Court finds that denying Defendant an opportunity to cure these defects
would be unjust. The Court will therefore exercise its discretion to permit
leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike the Answer is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Ladson’s February 13, 2024 answer is also stricken as improper on the Court’s
own motion. 
 
            Defendant
shall have 20 days leave to file an Amended Answer that is verified per code
and addresses each allegation in the Complaint individually. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 15, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 