 Case Number:  24STCP00052    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 15, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Director’s Guild of America, Inc. v. On Smoother
Dirt Movie, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP00052            
 
PETITION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD

 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner Director’s Guild of America, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 3/13/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/08/24: Petition filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a petition to confirm an arbitration award on a contract dispute.
 
 
Petitioner Director’s Guild of
America, Inc. petitions to confirm an arbitration award.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Director’s Guild of
America, Inc. petitions to confirm an arbitration award against Respondent On
Smoother Dirt Movie LLC.
 
Any party to an arbitration award
may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate the award. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1285.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly served and
filed, the court shall confirm the
award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
1286, bold emphasis added.) A petition to confirm a binding arbitration must
name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name any other
parties to be bound by the award. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.) The petition shall
(1) set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to
arbitrate unless petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement; (2) set
forth the name(s) of the arbitrator(s); and (3) set forth or have attached a
copy of the award and written opinion of the arbitrator. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1285.4(a)-(c).)
 
The petition to confirm must be
served and filed no later than four years after the date of service of a signed
copy of the award on the petitioner (Code Civ. Proc. § 1288) but may not be
served and filed until at least 10 days after service of the signed copy of the
award upon the petitioner.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1288.4.)  
 
Here, all parties to the
arbitration are named in the petition. (Petition p.1:3.) The agreement to
arbitrate is attached to the Petition. (Exh. A.) The name of the arbitrator, Mark
Burstein, is set forth in the Petition. (Petition, ¶ 6.)
 
A copy of the executed arbitration
award, dated November 15, 2023, is also attached to the petition and was served
on all parties on that same date. (Exh. B.) The petition to confirm was filed
on January 8, 2024, and was served that same date by mail. These dates are all
within four years from the date the award was served and more than ten days
after the award was served. Accordingly, the Petition to Confirm was filed and
has now been served in accordance with the time limit set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1288. 
 
No petition to vacate or correct
the award has been filed. A petition to vacate an award or correct an award
must be served and filed no later than 100 days after the date of service of a
signed copy of the award on the party petitioning to vacate or correct the
award. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1288.) The Court may not correct or vacate an award
unless a petition or response requesting that the award be corrected or vacated
has been filed. (See, e.g., Valsan Partners Ltd. P’ship v. Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 809, 818.) The time to petition to
vacate or correct the award therefore expired on February 24, 2024. 
 
            As the time
to vacate or correct the award has expired and the Petition satisfies all
procedural requirements, the petition to confirm the arbitration award is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: March 15, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 