 Case Number:  BC290553    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
I.
Plaintiff Shashikant Jogani’s Motion to Disqualify Counsel; II. Motions to Be Relieved
as Counsel by (1) Larson, LLP and (2) Stris & Maher, LLP
I.
Motion to Disqualify Counsel
Plaintiff
Shashikant Jogani moves to disqualify Larson, LLP from continuing to represent
any parties in this action.  Plaintiff contends
Larson, LLP must be disqualified because its client Haresh Jogani has interests
adverse to concurrent clients, defendants J.K. Properties, Inc., H.K. Realty,
Inc., Commonwealth Investments, Inc., Mooreport Holdings Limited, and Gilu
Investments Limited (collectively, “the entities”).
Plaintiff
does not have standing to move to disqualify Larson, LLP.  “A complaining party who files a motion to
disqualify is required to have standing.” 
(Blue Water Sunset, LLC v. Markowitz (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 477,
485 (Blue Water).)  Standing
generally requires either “a present or past attorney-client relationship with
the attorney who is the target of the motion” or that “the lawyer owed a duty
of confidentiality to the complaining party and breached it.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff does not assert he had or has a
direct attorney-client relationship with Larson, LLP or that Larson, LLP owed a
duty of confidentiality to him.  
Standing
to move for disqualification may also “be imputed vicariously.”  (Blue Water, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th at
p. 485.)  “If an attorney simultaneously
represents a limited liability company and a member with conflicting interests
in a derivative action filed by the second and only other member, and if the
limited liability company's consent to concurrent representation is required by”
California Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.7 (formerly rule 3-310), “the
second member has vicarious standing to move to disqualify.  Vicarious standing is based on the limited
liability company’s standing under existing case law and the second member’s
unilateral right under rule [1.13] to decide for the limited liability company
whether to waive the conflict of interest.” 
(Blue Water, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th at p. 481.)  
In
Blue Water, the court held that the plaintiff member of limited
liability companies had standing to move to disqualify an attorney who
represented both the LLCs and a defendant member.  The plaintiff member brought claims “derivatively
on behalf of the limited liability companies” represented by the attorney to be
disqualified.  (Blue Water, supra, 192
Cal.App.4th at p. 489.)  The court
reasoned: “[T]he limited liability companies stood to benefit if [plaintiff] prevailed.  Though nominally named as defendants, the
limited liability companies were actually plaintiffs in the eyes of the law.”  (Ibid.)
Vicarious
standing was also discussed in Coldren v. Hart, King & Coldren, Inc.
(2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 237 (Coldren). 
There, the court stated: “We have no qualms with the exception” to the
general standing rule “announced in Blue Water as it flows naturally
from the well-established rule that forbids dual representation of a company
and company insiders in the context of a derivative action.”  (Id. at p. 246.)  “If, in that context, the plaintiff had no
standing to bring a disqualification motion, then no one would, because the
only parties with standing would be the defendant flouting the rule and the
company the defendant controls.”  (Ibid.)  The court distinguished Blue Water
because the plaintiff’s complaint for involuntary dissolution and damages “is
not a derivative action” and any damages plaintiff recovered “will not go to the
benefit of” the corporation.  (Ibid.)
 “[Q]uite to the contrary, [the
corporation] will have to pay the damages to” plaintiff.  (Id. at p. 247.)  
Plaintiff’s
reply does not contend he has vicarious standing under the exception stated in Blue
Water.  Plaintiff argues “he, as a
shareholder, has standing” to move for disqualification.  (Reply, p. 6.)  He relies on M’Guinness v. Johnson
(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 602 (M’Guinness) for the proposition that standing
does not “appl[y] only to derivative actions.” 
(Reply, p. 6.)  M’Guinness does
not support plaintiff’s argument.  There,
the court did not consider whether the moving parties had standing to move to
disqualify counsel.  “It is axiomatic
that cases are not authority for propositions not considered.”  (People v. Ault (2004) 33 Cal.4th
1250, 1268, fn. 10.)  
In
M’Guinness, the parties moving to disqualify counsel included two
shareholders in a corporation and the corporation itself.  (M’Guinness, supra, 243 Cal.App.4th at
p. 607 [“M’Guinness, Stuart, and TLC … moved to disqualify the Law Firm”].)  The law firm they moved to disqualify
represented a third shareholder as a party to the action.  (Ibid.)  It had a concurrent conflict of interest
because the firm “continued to represent” the corporation as corporate counsel “when
it undertook to represent [the defendant shareholder] in this litigation.”  (Id. at p. 627.)  
M'Guinness did
not consider standing and did not discuss Blue Water.  There was no need for an exception to the
general rule requiring the moving party to have an attorney-client relationship
with the lawyer subject to disqualification. 
The moving parties included a corporation that had a present
attorney-client relationship with the law firm it moved to disqualify.
Turning
to the present case, plaintiff does not have standing under the Blue Water
exception.  Though the judgment establishes
plaintiff is a 50% shareholder in the entities Larson, LLP represents, plaintiff
neither shows nor argues that the exception under Blue Water
applies.  As Coldren reasoned, Blue
Water’s exception exists because, in a derivative action, if “the plaintiff
had no standing to bring a disqualification motion, then no one would, because
the only parties with standing would be the defendant flouting the rule and the
company the defendant controls.”  (Coldren,
supra, 239 Cal.App.4th at p. 246.)  
The
principle behind the rule permitting vicarious standing does not apply to this
case.  Someone other than the plaintiff has
standing to move to disqualify Larson, LLP. 
Haresh Jogani no longer controls the entity defendants.  Court-appointed receiver Aaron Kudla
does.  Plaintiff’s reply brief acknowledges
the receiver has the power to waive the conflict or potential conflict.  (Reply, pp. 5-6.)  The receiver also has the corresponding power
to move to disqualify Larson, LLP from representing Haresh Jogani.  As defendants’ opposition notes, the receiver
did not move to do so and did not join in plaintiff’s motion.  As the person charged with overseeing the
entities, the receiver must decide whether to move to disqualify Larson, LLP.
Plaintiff
argues the court should use its inherent power to disqualify counsel.  (Reply, p. 8.)  The court agrees that it has the inherent
power to consider whether to disqualify counsel.  But the court exercises its discretion not to
use its inherent power to disqualify Larson, LLP under the facts of this case.  The court appointed a capable, impartial
receiver to oversee the entities.  That
receiver is represented by capable counsel. 
Moreover, Larson, LLP is withdrawing from representing the entities and
will proceed to represent only Haresh Jogani. 
In these circumstances, the court does not find it appropriate to use
its inherent power to disqualify Larson, LLP. 
The
court considered the four cases cited by plaintiff on the court’s inherent
power.  (Reply, p. 8.)  The three opinions that reviewed an order on a
motion to disqualify all held the trial court erred in disqualifying
counsel.  (Oaks Management Corporation
v. Superior Court (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 453, 472; Neal v. Health Net,
Inc. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 831, 850; Responsible Citizens v. Superior
Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1735.) 
The fourth case cited referred to a court’s power to disqualify counsel in
the context of considering whether a criminal prosecutor violated the rule prohibiting
“a prosecutor’s expression of a personal belief in a witness’s credibility or
in an accused’s guilt.”  (People v.
Donaldson (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 916, 931.) 
No similar facts exist here.
Because
the court will not order disqualification of Larson, LLP, it need not and does
not reach the other issues briefed on this motion.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Shashikant Jogani’s motion
to disqualify Larson, LLP as counsel for defendants is denied.
II.
Motions to Be Relieved as Counsel   
Larson,
LLP and Stris & Maher, LLP each move to be relieved as counsel for
defendants J.K. Properties, Inc., H.K. Realty, Inc., Commonwealth Investments,
Inc., Mooreport Holdings Limited, and Gilu Investments Limited.  Both firms seek to remain as counsel for
defendant Haresh Jogani.  
Plaintiff
opposes both motions on the basis that the firms should also be disqualified as
counsel for Haresh Jogani.  He agrees,
however, that the firms should no longer represent the entity defendants.  Larson, LLP’s and Stris & Maher, LLP’s
motions to be relieved as counsel meet all requirements under California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362.  The court finds
no basis to deny the motions to be relieved as counsel.   
Disposition
Larson,
LLP’s motion to be relieved as counsel for defendants J.K. Properties, Inc.,
H.K. Realty, Inc., Commonwealth Investments, Inc., Mooreport Holdings Limited,
and Gilu Investments Limited is granted. 
The court will sign the proposed order on Judicial Council form
MC-053.  The order will be effective upon
filing proof of service of the signed order on defendants J.K. Properties,
Inc., H.K. Realty, Inc., Commonwealth Investments, Inc., Mooreport Holdings
Limited, and Gilu Investments Limited.
Stris
& Maher, LLP’s LLP’s motion to be relieved as counsel for defendants J.K.
Properties, Inc., H.K. Realty, Inc., Commonwealth Investments, Inc., Mooreport
Holdings Limited, and Gilu Investments Limited is granted.  The court will sign the proposed order on
Judicial Council form MC-053.  The order
will be effective upon filing proof of service of the signed order on
defendants J.K. Properties, Inc., H.K. Realty, Inc., Commonwealth Investments,
Inc., Mooreport Holdings Limited, and Gilu Investments Limited.
 