 Case Number:  24STCV03458    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Defendants
David C. Smith and Third Law Productions, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration,
Dismiss Claims, and Stay Action 
Defendants
David C. Smith and Third Law Productions, LLC, a California limited liability
company (Third Law CA), move to compel arbitration of this action by plaintiffs
M. Shawn Lawler and DrivingPlates.com, LLC. 

Remaining
Causes of Action
            Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint
alleged 13 causes of action.  After
defendants filed this motion, plaintiffs requested dismissal of the 6th through
13th causes of action.  The remaining
claims are: (1) unfair competition, (2) misappropriation of trade secrets, (3)
conversion, (4) civil theft, and (5) trade libel. 
The
Settlement Agreement
            In 2021, plaintiff Lawler and
defendant Smith entered a settlement agreement. 
(Willey Decl., Ex. A.)  The
agreement resolved “disputes related to the ownership of three companies: DrivingPlates.com
LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company …, DrivingPlates.com UK Ltd., a
private limited company of the United Kingdom …, and Third Law Productions,
LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company.” 
(Id., ¶ A.)  The agreement allocated
various assets to DrivingPlates.Com, including: “The Intellectual Property of
Driving Plates, including the complete library of Driving Plates footage stored
on the Server and available for license by third parties at any of the websites
listed in this paragraph, and any and all originals, copies or backups of same
on any type of media.”  (Id., ¶
7.)  The agreement provides that it “shall
be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the
State of Washington.”  (Id., ¶
22.)  
The
agreement includes the following arbitration provision: “Dispute Resolution.  In the event a dispute arises among the
Parties concerning this Settlement Agreement, the terms of the membership/share
transfers or assignments, or the terms of the licensing agreement, such dispute
shall be resolved by expedited arbitration before the Hon. John Edick (ret.) as
arbitrator.”  (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶
19.)
Scope
of Agreement
            Plaintiffs argue the arbitration
agreement does not apply to their first through fifth causes of action.  “The arbitrability of a dispute is determined
by examining the arbitration agreement between the parties.  [Citation.] 
If the reviewing court ‘can fairly say that the parties’ arbitration
agreement covers the dispute, the inquiry ends because Washington strongly
favors arbitration.’  [Citations.]  Any doubts regarding the applicability of an
arbitration agreement ‘should be resolved in favor of coverage.’ ”  (In re Marriage of Pascale (Wash. Ct.
App. 2013) 173 Wash.App. 836, 842.)  “[A]ll
questions upon which the parties disagree are presumed to be within the
arbitration provisions unless negated expressly or by clear implication.”  (Heights at Issaquah Ridge, Owners Ass’n
v. Burton Landscape Group, Inc. (Wash. Ct. App. 2009) 148 Wash.App. 400,
405.)  Generally, “ ‘[a] party’s
characterization of the theory of recovery is not binding on the court.  It is the nature of the claim that controls.’
”  (Hurley v. Port Blakely Tree Farms
L.P. (Wash. Ct. App. 2014) 182 Wash.App. 753, 771.)
1st to 4th Causes of
Action 
The arbitration
agreement applies to plaintiffs’ first four causes of
action.  The first cause of action alleges
defendant Third Law CA violated the unfair competition law “by using Driving
Plates’ non-marketing materials, inclusive of its business plans, customer
lists, curated contact information, and designs and methods of doing business
unique to Driving Plates in conducting the business of Defendant Plate Pros.”  (FAC, ¶ 29.) 
The second cause of action alleges defendant Third Law CA misappropriated
“trade secrets” that consist of the same “non-marketing” items.  (¶ 34.) The third cause of action alleges defendants
converted the same “property” (¶ 40), the “non-marketing materials” (¶ 39).  The fourth cause of action alleges defendants
committed civil theft by stealing plaintiffs’ “non-marketing materials.”  (¶ 47.)
            The court can fairly say that the
parties’ arbitration agreement covers the dispute. The settlement agreement
requires arbitration “[i]n the event a dispute arises among the Parties
concerning this Settlement Agreement.” 
(Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 19.)  The
agreement allocated “The Intellectual Property of Driving Plates, including the
complete library of Driving Plates footage stored on the Server and available
for license by third parties at any of the websites listed in this paragraph,
and any and all originals, copies or backups of same on any type of media.”  (Willy Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 7.)  The agreement does not limit the allocated
property to the “library of Driving Plates footage.”    
One
can reasonably interpret this provision as applying to plaintiffs’ “business
plans, customer lists, curated contact information, and designs and methods of
doing business.”  (FAC, ¶ 29.)  Black’s Law Dictionary defines “intellectual
property” as: “1. A category of intangible rights protecting commercially valuable
products of the human intellect. • The category comprises primarily trademark,
copyright, and patent rights, but also includes trade-secret rights, publicity
rights, moral rights, and rights against unfair competition.  2. A commercially valuable product of the
human intellect, in a concrete or abstract form, such as a copyrightable work,
a protectable trademark, a patentable invention, or a trade secret.”  This definition fairly applies to the
“non-marketing” materials that defendants allegedly stole from plaintiffs.  With respect to the second cause of action, intellectual
property generally includes trade secrets. 
(See Kewanee Oil Co. v. Bicron Corp. (1974) 416 U.S. 470, 478; InteliClear,
LLC v. ETC Global Holdings, Inc. (9th Cir. 2020) 978 F.3d 653, 662; State
v. Komok (1989) 113 Wash.2d 810, 815, fn. 3.)  One can thus reasonably interpret each cause
of action as “a dispute aris[ing] among the Parties concerning [the] Settlement
Agreement” (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 19) with respect to the allocation of intellectual
property to plaintiffs.
Moreover,
the first amended complaint alleges defendants acquired the “non-marketing
materials” in a manner that may have violated the settlement agreement.  Plaintiffs allege: “[A]fter the Settlement
Agreement was executed by Smith on December 24, 2021 and Driving Plates became
solely the property of Lawler, more specifically on December 30 and 31, 2021,
Smith accessed the Driving Plates website and Google drive, obtaining
considerable sales and other Driving Plates confidential and/or trade secret
information.  This included marketing
materials, but more particularly, also included business plans, customer lists,
contact information, and designs and methods of doing business unique to
Driving Plates.  The investigation into
the full scope of this theft is ongoing.  This was not learned by Lawler until in 2022,
after Smith turned over control of the Driving Plates website to Lawler as part
of implementing the Settlement Agreement.” 
(¶ 26.) 
As
the final sentence quoted above states, transferring control of the website (including
the confidential information it contained) was part of the settlement.  The agreement required Smith to “deliver to
Lawler the credentials for access to and management of the Driving Plates
website and domain … between December 27, 2021, and December 31, 2021.”  (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 6.a.)  It further required Smith to “deliver to
Lawler any other web account credentials … for Driving Plates” during that
period.  (Id., ¶ 6.b.)  As for Driving Plates’ “Google drive” (FAC, ¶
26), the agreement required Smith to “transfer to Lawler user credentials or
data backups for all software subscription services currently used by Driving
Plates,” including “Google G-Suite.” 
(Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 6.h(z).)  
Plaintiffs
thus allege Smith copied and misappropriated confidential information acquired
from the accounts that the settlement required him to transfer to Lawler.  The phrase “a dispute aris[ing] among the
Parties concerning [the] Settlement Agreement” (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 19) applies
to all causes of action arising from those allegations.
5th
Cause of Action for Trade Libel          
The
settlement agreement applies to plaintiffs’ cause of action for trade
libel.  The settlement agreement includes
the following provision: “Non-disparagement.  Each Party and its agents, including but not
limited to their counsel, agrees it will refrain from disparaging the other
Party.  Each Party will advise all representatives,
employees and partners who are aware of the dispute that it has been resolved
to the mutual satisfaction of both Parties, and that the Parties have agreed to
mutual non-disparagement, and that this non-disparagement term must be honored.
 If a Party learns any representative,
employee or partner is disparaging the other Party, it will take reasonable
steps to rectify and prevent further disparagement.  Non-disparagement is a material term of this
Agreement.”  (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶
21.)            
Plaintiffs’
opposition argues they “are not suing on the non-disparagement clause, and the
elements of a trade libel claim are different—first and foremost, trade libel
requires a false claim, not merely a statement that casts Plaintiffs in a
negative light.”  (Opp., p. 5.)  Neither plaintiffs nor defendants cite any
authority on the elements of trade libel in Washington.  In California, trade libel requires
disparagement.  “Trade libel is an
intentional disparagement of the quality of services or product of a business
that results in pecuniary damage to the plaintiff.”  (J-M Manufacturing Co., Inc. v. Phillips
& Cohen LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 87, 97.)  Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint expressly
alleges defendants engaged in trade libel because they made statements that
“disparaged the quality of Driving Plates’s product or service.”  (FAC, ¶ 52.) 

The
phrase “a dispute aris[ing] among the Parties concerning [the] Settlement Agreement”
(Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 19) applies to the fifth cause of action for trade
libel.    
Enforcement
Against Non-Signatory Plaintiff 
The
opposition argues the arbitration agreement does not apply to plaintiff
DrivingPlates.com, LLC, a Washington limited liability company because it did
not sign the agreement.  DrivingPlates.com,
LLC did sign the agreement.  Plaintiff Lawler
signed the agreement “individually and as shareholder/member of
DrivingPlates.Com, LLC.”  (Willey Decl.,
Ex. A, p. 11.)  Defendant Smith signed
“individually; as shareholder/member of DrivingPlates.Com, LLC.”  (Ibid.)  The agreement provides that Lawler and Smith
each owned “50% shares in Driving Plates.” 
(Id., ¶ 5.a.)  The first
amended complaint also alleges “Smith was … an equal (50-50) owner with
Lawler.”  (FAC, ¶ 10.)  Their signatures thus represent 100% of the
ownership of DrivingPlates.Com, LLC signing as “shareholder/member” of the
company.  Plaintiffs give no reason why
this agreement does not bind plaintiff DrivingPlates.Com, LLC.
Even
if DrivingPlates.Com, LLC did not sign the agreement, defendants may enforce the
agreement against it under the doctrine of equitable estoppel.  “As a general rule, nonsignatories are not
bound by arbitration clauses.”  (Townsend
v. Quadrant Corp. (2012) 173 Wash.2d 451, 460.)  But “equitable estoppel may require a
nonsignatory to arbitrate a claim if that person, despite never having signed
the agreement, ‘ “ ‘knowingly exploits’ ” ’ the contract in which the
arbitration agreement is contained.”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff
DrivingPlates.Com, LLC’s first amended complaint seeks to knowingly exploit the
settlement agreement.  That contract was
made “to resolve” the individuals’ “disputes related to the ownership of three
companies,” including “DrivingPlates.com LLC, a Washington limited liability
company.”  (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ A.)  The first amended complaint alleges the first
four causes of action on behalf of both plaintiffs.  (FAC, pp. 5-7.)  Those claims allege defendants misappropriated
property that, pursuant to the settlement agreement, belongs to
DrivingPlates.Com.  The fifth cause of
action for trade libel alleges defendants made false publications including
“that Driving Plates is no longer doing the same type or quality of work since
Smith’s departure.”  (Id., ¶
52.)  The settlement agreement was the
instrument by which Smith departed from DrivingPlates.Com, LLC.  
Enforcement
by Non-Signatory Defendant
Similarly,
plaintiffs argue Third Law CA cannot enforce the agreement because it did not
sign the agreement and did not exist at the time.  The agreement resolved a dispute over ownership
of “Third Law Productions, LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company,” not the
California LLC.  (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶
A.)  Like DrivingPlates.Com, the
individuals each owned 50% of Third Law Productions, LLC (id., ¶ 5.a)
and each signed “as shareholder/member” of the LLC (id., p. 11).  
Plaintiffs
rely on the theory that the Washington LLC dissolved instead of properly
converting to Third Law CA, thereby making the latter a new and separate
entity.  The evidence in the record shows
they are the same entity.  On July 27,
2022, Third Law filed “articles of organization with statement of conversion”
with the Secretary of State.  (Willey
Decl., Ex. E.)  That document indicates
Third Law Productions, LLC describes it as a “converting entity,” a
“nonqualified out-of-state limited liability company” that was “formed in
Washington.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs also present a screenshot from the
California Secretary of State’s website showing Third Law Productions, LLC was
“formed in” the State of Washington. 
(Derby Decl., Ex. 1.)  Plaintiffs
provide no basis for concluding Third Law CA is a distinct legal entity from
Third Law Productions, a Washington Limited Liability Company.  
Moreover,
even if Third Law CA is not a party to the agreement, it may enforce the
agreement under equitable estoppel.  The
“ ‘doctrine applies when a party has signed an agreement to arbitrate but
attempts to avoid arbitration by suing nonsignatory defendants for claims that
are “based on the same facts and are inherently inseparable” from arbitrable
claims against signatory defendants.’ ” 
(David Terry Investments, LLC-PRC v. Headwaters Development Group
Limited Liability Company (Wash. Ct. App. 2020) 13 Wash.App.2d 159, 171.)  
The
claims against Third Law CA are based on the same facts and inseparable from
the claims against Smith.  The first
amended complaint alleges, “[E]ach of the Defendants, at all times relevant to
this Complaint, was and is the alter ego, agent, employee, servant, partner, member,
associate, or representative of each of the remaining Defendants, and in doing
or failing to do the acts alleged herein, was acting within the course and
scope of the agency, employment, service, partnership, association, and/or
representative relationship described herein, and with knowledge and consent of
their respective principals, employees, masters, and/or parent entities of the
other Defendant.”  (¶ 8.)  The third, fourth, and fifth causes of action
are each alleged jointly against all defendants.  (FAC, pp. 7-8.)     
Attorney
Fees
            Defendants argue the court should
award them an unspecified amount of attorney fees for prevailing on this
motion.   The settlement agreement’s arbitration
provision states, “The arbitrator shall award reasonable attorney fees and
costs to the prevailing party in any such arbitration.”  (Willey Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 19.)  It does not provide that a court shall award
attorney fees to a party who prevails in compelling arbitration.
            Defendants also rely on the attorney
fee provisions in two separate agreements: the mutual use agreement (Willey
Decl., Ex. B, ¶ 10) and the patent license agreement (id., Ex. C, ¶
7.03).  Defendants have not shown they
are the prevailing parties entitled to attorney fees under those agreements.  “In Washington, the prevailing party is the
one who receives judgment in that party’s favor.”  (Blair v. Washington State University
(1987) 108 Wash.2d 558, 571.)  Defendants
did not prevail in compelling arbitration of the claims arising from those two
agreements.  They did not prevail in
moving to enforce forum selection clauses as to those claims.  Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the claims
arising from the mutual use agreement and patent license agreement.  The court has not entered judgment in
defendants’ favor.  
Disposition
            Defendants David C. Smith and Third
Law Productions, LLC’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  The court hereby orders plaintiffs M.
Shawn Lawler and DrivingPlates.Com, LLC to arbitrate all remaining causes of
action alleged in their first amended complaint against defendants.  The court hereby stays the entire
action pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding. 