 Case Number:  23STCV06876    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES
            Defendant
Walmart Inc. filed a motion to compel further responses by Plaintiffs Elizabeth
Bowman and Gary Bowman to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1.  As an initial matter, the parties are under
the impression that the court issued orders at the informal discovery
conference.  That is not correct.  The purpose of IDCs is to attempt to resolve
discovery disputes informally.  The outcome
of the IDC here was that Plaintiffs agreed to serve amended responses.  (See Aug. 16, 2023 minute order.)
            Defendant
argues Plaintiffs’ responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 are deficient
because they contain boilerplate objections, and Plaintiffs provide the same
response as to each request for admission that was not an unqualified
admission.  Defendant also complains that
Plaintiffs did not identify documents supporting the responses.
            Plaintiffs
argue the responses provide the necessary detail, and Plaintiffs produced the
documents.
            Interrogatory
“[a]nswers must be complete and responsive. 
Thus it is not proper to answer by stating, ‘See my deposition,’ ‘See my
pleading,’ or ‘See the financial statement.’” 
(Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 784-785.)  
If the answer to an
interrogatory would necessitate the preparate of a compilation, abstract,
audit, or summary of documents, and the burden or expense of preparing it would
be substantially the same for both parties, the responding party may answer the
interrogatory by referring to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 and
specifing the writings from which the answer may be derived.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.)  The specification must be detailed enough to
permit the propounding party to locate and identify the documents as readily as
the responding party can.  (Ibid.)

            If
the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond
fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a
reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other
persons, except where the information is equally available to the propounding
party.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220,
(subd. (c).)  
            A
responding party cannot refuse to respond to an interrogatory “merely on the
claim that the requested information had been given in previous deposition and
trials.”  (Bunnell v. Superior Court  (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 720, 723.)  
            If
the responding party objects to an interrogatory, the objection must be made
“separately to each interrogatory.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.210, subd. (a).)  An objection can only be made “to the
particular interrogatory,” meaning general objections are not allowed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.210, subd.
(a)(3).)  Objections that are too general
may be subject to a motion to compel further responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd.
(a)(3).)  
            Plaintiffs’
Amended Responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 are defective as follows:
            First,
the two pages of general objections are not proper.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.210, subd. (a)(3);
2030.300, subd. (a)(3).)  
            Second,
the objections are too general.  For
example, Plaintiffs object that Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 is duplicative, but
they do not identify what other interrogatories it duplicates.  Plaintiffs object that No. 17.1 calls for
attorney-client privileged information and attorney work product, but they do
not specify the documents or categories of information that are
privileged.  Plaintiffs object that the
interrogatory calls for expert information but they do not specify such
information.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (a)(3).)  
            Third,
Plaintiffs respond by referring to “each of the responses to interrogatories
propounded on Plaintiff by Walmart Inc., served concurrently herewith, as well
as Plaintiff’s responses to General Order Interrogatories; which have been
previously served on all Defendants and of which responses are incorporated
herein by reference.”  (Amended Responses
at p. 5.)  This is not a specific
response, and it does not describe the documents with enough detail to permit
the propounding party to locate and identify the documents as readily as the
responding party can.  (Deyo, supra,
84 Cal.App.3d at pp. 784-785; Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.)   
            Fourth,
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 requires, “for each response that is not an
unqualified admission,” answers to questions (a)-(d).  Plaintiffs did not respond separately for
each response that was not an unqualified admission.  Instead, they responded with one answer to
twenty RFA responses.  (Amended Response
at p. 5.)  The RFAs covered different
topics.  For example, RFA No. 11 asked
Plaintiffs to admit they cannot identify the purchase date for any talcum
powder products they purchased from Walmart. 
RFA No. 15 asked Plaintiffs to admit no health care provider had told
Plaintiff her mesothelioma was contributed to by talcum powder products from
Walmart.  RFA No. 16 asked about
Defendant’s duty to test and inspect talcum powder products it sells.  These are different topics requiring
different facts supporting the denials.
            Rather
than responding with the specific facts upon which they base their response to
each RFA, Plaintiffs gave one response that contained information irrelevant to
some of the RFAs.  For example, Plaintiffs
state she bought various products from Walmart stores in Texas, Oregon, and
California in the 1980s through 2021 and was exposed to asbestos from those
products.  That response does not give information
about Plaintiffs’ response to the RFA  No. 15 asking about health care providers.  Nor does it provide facts about Defendant’s
duty to test and inspect products it sells. 
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 questions (a)-(d) must be answered
separately for each RFA response that is not an unqualified admission.
            Fifth,
in the response “Plaintiff refers to her deposition testimony taken in this
matter beginning on July 11, 2023.” 
(Amended Responses at p. 5; see also id. at p. 11.)  Similarly, Plaintiffs refer to all of their
“responses to written discovery propounded by Defendants.”  (Amended Response at p. 6.)  That is improper.  (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at pp.
784-785.)  
Sixth,
Plaintiffs refer to “the documents that have already been produced and/or made
available to Defendants since the inception of litigation herein,” as well as
every document produced by every defendant in any talc litigation.  (Amended Responses at pp. 5-6, 7.)  This is not a specific identification as
required by Code of Civil Procedures section 2030.230.  The amended response does not specifically
identify any document but instead refers to general broad categories.  Indeed by referring to “all documents
produced by other Defendants in talc litigation” and all prior testimony of all
Defendants throughout the country, Plaintiffs has responded with the most
generic, broadest, and least specific identification of documents possible.  This response in no way complies with Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.230.    
            The
motion to compel further responses is GRANTED. 
Plaintiffs are to serve further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
within 20 days of the date of this order.
            Defendant
requested $3,198 in sanctions.  As posted
on the Department 15 webpage, this court requires counsel to meet and confer in
person or by telephone to attempt to resolve a discovery dispute and then to
schedule an informal discovery conference if the dispute remains
unresolved.  Defendant filed its initial
motion without scheduling an informal discovery conference.  Counsel have never had an actual conversation
about this discovery dispute except during the IDC with the court’s
involvement.  The court concludes that
both sides are failing to engage in good faith attempts to resolve discovery
disputes and therefore denies the request for sanctions.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 