..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV10373
Plaintiff's Name: Roberto Sotomayor
Defendant's Name: Kaiser Gypsum Company
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Kaiser Gypsum Company
Places: 
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements:
  * A witness's prior conduct relevant only as tending to prove a trait of their character is inadmissible to attach or support the credibility of a witness (Evidence Code section 787).
  * Evidence of prior conduct involving moral turpitude is inadmissible for impeachment in civil cases.
  * Temporary restraining orders issued on ex parte notice without a hearing may not be relevant.
  * Inquiring about a marital dispute from 25 years ago invades private matters, is completely irrelevant to the case, and will consume an undue amount of time.
  * The criminal cases against Sotomayor were all dismissed or subject to diversion.
  * Failure to pay taxes 50 to 55 years ago is not proper character evidence.
  * The motion is granted as to the questions about whether Defendant was convicted of a felony, and is otherwise denied.
```

And here is the English text to summarize the judge's tentative ruling:

The court has issued a tentative ruling on a motion to compel further responses to deposition questions from the plaintiff, Roberto Sotomayor. The defendant, Kaiser Gypsum Company, seeks to ask questions about Sotomayor's criminal history, including whether he was arrested or charged with a crime, as well as his thoughts on genetic testing and how he found his lawyer. The court has denied most of the defendant's requests, finding that the questions are irrelevant, harassing, or invade private matters.

The court has granted the defendant's motion as to the question of whether Sotomayor has ever thought about genetic testing, and as to the question of how he found his lawyer. The court has also granted the defendant's motion to ask about Sotomayor's felony conviction, but denied the rest of the motion.

The court has denied the defendant's request for additional time at the deposition, finding that most of the questions at issue were irrelevant or harassing. The court has also denied the defendant's request for monetary sanctions, finding that the notice of motion did not specify monetary sanctions and that the defendant did not show good cause for asking most of the questions.

The court has ruled that the motion to compel further responses to deposition questions will be granted as to the questions about whether Sotomayor was convicted of a felony, and will be otherwise denied.
