  Case Number:  21STCV26682    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiffs
Darren Hargrove and Kevin Hargrove filed an ex parte application to reopen
expert discovery.  The court set the request
for hearing on shortened time, and Defendant Valley Brake Supply filed an
opposition.  
Plaintiffs state they
served a letter on Monday March 4, 2024 offering two experts (Markowitz and
Brody) for depositions on March 8 and two experts (Ellenbecker and Cohen) for
depositions on March 18.  Defendant
objected to the March 18 dates.  On March
5, Plaintiffs offered depositions on March 11.  Defendant objected.  On March 7, Plaintiffs offered the experts for
depositions on March 13 and March 18.  Defendant
objected.  On March 8, Plaintiffs offered
a deposition on March 14.  Defendant
objected.  According to Plaintiffs, the expert
discovery cutoff date was Sunday, March 10, 2024.  Defendant objected that the offered dates
were after the expert discovery cutoff date or did not provide the required
five days’ notice per the CMO.  Trial is
on March 25, 2024.
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2024.050 states that a court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings closer to the initial trial date or reopen discovery after
considering (1) the necessity and reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence
or lack of diligence of the moving party and the reasons discovery was not
timely completed, (3) likelihood that permitting the discovery will prevent the
case from going to trial on the trial date, and (f) the length of time between any
previously set trial date and the current trial date.
Plaintiffs argue that the
depositions are necessary because the witnesses are Plaintiffs’ experts, it is
difficult to set expert depositions because experts’ schedules are booked, and Plaintiffs
were diligent and expected the defendants to meet and confer on dates rather
then reject dates.  Defendant argues that
allowing the depositions will prejudice it because it is preparing for trial, the
depositions cannot be completed before the current trial date, and Plaintiffs
were not diligent.
            Counsel
should have picked up the phone and had a call to schedule all of the expert
depositions in this case.  Sending a flurry
of letters back and forth is not productive. 
It merely sparks more letters. 
Both sides knew many depositions would need to take place in a small
window, and both sides failed to work together to schedule the expert depositions.  It is common in asbestos litigation for
experts to have congested schedules, making setting depositions difficult.  Both sides should have taken that into account
when working together to set an expert deposition schedule.  And Plaintiffs should not have waited until
March 4, when only five court days remained until the expert discovery cutoff,
to offer their experts for depositions.  In
sum, both sides exhibited a lack of cooperation and professionalism in setting
the expert deposition schedule.
It is unlikely this case
will actually go out to trial on March 25, 2024, even if expert discovery had
been timely completed.  The parties failed
to file timely complete pre-trial documents. 
And the court currently has few trial courts available for
non-preference cases.  On February 8,
2023, the court set the March 25, 2024 trial date.  Trial has not previously been continued.
Having considered all of
the factors, the court GRANTS the motion. 
Trial is continued to April 29, 2024 at 9 a.m.  Expert discovery is reopened solely to
complete expert depositions.  The moving
party is to give notice.