  Case Number:  22VECV00123    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV00123 GINA WATSON vs
THE REO GROUP
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Gina Watson’s Motion for Leave to
File a Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Gina Watson is ORDERED
to file Form LASC CIV105 to substitute the true name of Doe 1 within 5
days.  An OSC re: Striking Non-Party
Serve All, Help All Inc. dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates from the
operative pleading is set for __________, 2024.
Non-Party Serve All, Help All
Inc. dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates and Defendant The REO Group,
Inc.’s Motions to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action are MOOT and taken
OFF-CALENDAR.  
Introduction 
Plaintiff Gina Watson (Plaintiff)
moved for leave of Court to file the Proposed Second Amended Complaint (Motion
for Leave).  Non-Party Serve All, Help
All Inc. dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates (NACA) filed an
Opposition to the Motion for Leave. 
Defendant The REO Group, Inc. (Defendant or REO) filed a Notice of
Joinder to Non-Party NACA’s Opposition. Plaintiff’s reply was due January 31,
2024 but none was received.
Non-Party NACA and Defendant REO
separately filed motions to compel arbitration and stay the action.  NACA and REO’s motions are set to be heard
concurrently with Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave.
Procedure 
The Court noted that Plaintiff
did not name NACA as a party defendant in the original complaint and did not
file a Doe Amendment requesting to substitute NACA as Doe 1.  Plaintiff instead added NACA as Doe 1 to the
First Amended Complaint (FAC) filed on March 30, 2023 without Court
approval.  (See FAC par. 5.)  None of the Court’s Orders between the filing
of the Complaint and the FAC reflect that the Court approved a substitution of
a party’s true name.  By simply adding
NACA to the FAC, Plaintiff failed to comply with the requirements of
substituting a party’s true name for the Doe designation.  Plaintiff failed to provide her ignorance of
the true name of the defendant; subsequently discovering the true name of the defendant;
and submitting an order to the Court to approve the amendment.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 471.5, 472, 473, and
474.)  Plaintiff should have filed the
Los Angeles Superior Court Form LASC LACIV 105: “Amendment to Complaint
(Fictitious/Incorrect Name)”.  Plaintiff
is ordered to cure this procedural defect and file Form LASC LACIV 105.  
The Court noted that NACA
generally appeared in the action despite Plaintiff’s failure to file an
amendment to substitute the true name of the party defendant.  NACA filed a demurrer to the FAC on May 1,
2023 and the Court overruled the demurrer on August 29, 2023.  NACA filed their Answer to the FAC on October
11, 2023.  NACA then filed a motion to
compel arbitration on October 25, 2023, being heard concurrently with the
instant Motion for Leave.  NACA further
filed an opposition to the instant Motion for Leave on January 23, 2024.  Due to NACA’s general appearance in this
action and in the interest of justice, the Court considered the merits of
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave, NACA’s opposition, and REO’s joinder.  
Discussion  
The Court has authority to allow
amendment of any pleading.  (Code Civ.
Proc., secs. 473(a)(1) and 576.)  “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….”  (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527.)  The FAC was filed on
March 30, 2023 and the instant Motion for Leave was filed on January 11,
2024.  In the interim between these two
filings, the Court authorized Plaintiff’s prior counsel to substitute out of
the action on July 5, 2023, resulting in Plaintiff being in pro per.  Plaintiff’s current counsel substituted into
the action on August 25, 2023.  Plaintiff
provided that it was Plaintiff’s new counsel that reviewed the file to
determine the inadequacies found in the FAC. 
(Douglas Rosner Decl. pars. 24-27.) 
The Court does not find unreasonable delay in Plaintiff filing the
instant Motion for Leave due to the procedural stance of the action.  NACA’s opposition and REO’s joinder do not
argue or present facts to show any prejudice to them.  Without any showing of unreasonable delay or
prejudice to NACA or REO, the liberal policy in granting amendment prevails.
NACA however argued that
Plaintiff failed to explain why the amendment is necessary and proper; when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and/or why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
Despite NACA’s contention, the declaration of Mr. Rosner sufficiently
submitted that the amendment was necessary and proper because he discovered
that Plaintiff’s FAC was inadequate in pleading the proper relief and to “clean
up the allegations” in the FAC. (Rosner Decl. pars. 2, 5, and 18.)  Further, Mr. Rosner’s declaration stated that
the inadequacies in the FAC were discovered upon his review of the pleading and
could not have filed the Motion for Leave earlier because he did not substitute
into the action until August 25, 2023. 
(Rosner Decl., par. 24-26.) 
Plaintiff’s declaration submitted with the Motion for Leave complied
with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.
The Motion for Leave is
GRANTED.  
Due to the ruling on Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave, the separately filed motions to compel arbitration by NACA
and REO are deemed MOOT and not considered because the operative pleading is no
longer the FAC.  
NACA and REO’s motions to compel
arbitration and stay the action are taken OFF-CALENDAR.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.