 Case Number:  23VECV00891    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV00891 LORI MURPHY vs
SHERMAN OAKS HOSPITAL
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Prime Healthcare Services – Sherman
Oaks, LLC’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against the First Amended
Complaint is DENIED.  Defendant Prime
Healthcare Services – Sherman Oaks, LLC is ORDERED to file an Answer within 20
days.
Introduction 
Defendant Prime Healthcare
Services – Sherman Oaks, LLC dba Sherman Oaks Hospital (Defendant) moved for
judgment on the pleadings against Plaintiff Lori Murphy’s (Plaintiff) First
Amended Complaint (FAC).  Defendant placed
into issue the only cause of action (COA) for “intentional tort.”  Plaintiff’s opposition was due January 25,
2024 and none was filed.  
Discussion  
Preliminarily, the Court noted
that Plaintiff cured the pleading identified in the Court’s September 13, 2023
Order on the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against the original
Complaint.  Plaintiff added an allegation
that the Doe Defendants/Assailants were employed by Defendant as orderlies,
nurses, or staff members.  (FAC pgs.
2:23-24, 3:26, and 4:3.)  
Defendant argued, as it did at
the prior motion for judgment on the pleadings, that the COA is uncertain
because it is titled “intentional tort”. 
The argument was reviewed on the September 13, 2023 Order and found it
to be “of no circumstance”.  (Court Order
dated September 13, 2023 at pg. 3:1-2.) 
The title does not make the claim uncertain because the failure to
specifically title the COA does not make the complaint so bad that Defendant
cannot reasonably respond.  (A.J. Fistes
Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)  A cursory review of the factual allegations
are sufficient to notify Defendant that the action is grounded, at minimum, in
battery.  The motion’s argument is not
persuasive.
Defendant asserted that the FAC
is uncertain because it lacked a prayer for damages.  However, the lack of a prayer does not make
the complaint so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably respond.  Actual damages to compensate Plaintiff can be
disclosed during discovery.  The motion’s
argument is not persuasive.  
Defendant argued that there can
be no vicarious liability/respondeat superior liability for assaults by its
employees because the assault falls outside the course and scope of
employment.  However, a motion for judgment
on the pleadings is limited to the facts alleged in the four corners of the
pleading.  Determining the course and
scope of the employee assailants’ employment requires a review of facts outside
the pleading.  Further, Defendant’s
argument misconstrued the express allegations made in the FAC.  Plaintiff expressly alleged that a supervisor
instructed or ordered the assailant employees to attack Plaintiff.  (FAC pg. 4:14-17.)  With this factual allegation, there is
sufficient fact pleading to dispute Defendant’s contention that the attack was
not within the assailant employees’ course and scope of employment.  At the pleading stage, the factual
allegations of the pleading are deemed true. 
Defendant’s argument is a dispute as to the veracity of the factual
allegation, which is improper for the motion. 
It is noted that Plaintiff alternatively alleged that the attack may
have been promulgated by Anti-Semitism of the assailant employees.  (FAC pg. 4:8-10 and 22-24.)  However, an alternative reason for the attack
is insufficient to attack the pleading because Plaintiff’s COA pled sufficient
facts to support vicarious liability upon Defendant for the battery, as
reviewed above.  Adding alternative
grounds for the attack does not diminish the sufficient fact pleading to
support vicarious liability.  
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is DENIED.    
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.