


[1]              Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41 reads, in relevant part, as follows: “(a) Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. If an amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer is
filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who filed
the amended pleading before filing a demurrer to the amended pleading. (1) As part of the meet and confer
process, the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of
action that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support
the basis of the deficiencies. The party who filed the complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for its position that
the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how the complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency.
(2) The parties shall meet and confer at least 5 days before the date
the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer
at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring
party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to
file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on
which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury
that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the
reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension shall
commence from the date the responsive pleading was previously due, and the
demurring party shall not be subject to default during the period of the
extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court order upon a
showing of good cause.
(3) The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either of the following:
(A) The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not
reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. 
(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to
respond to the meet and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise
failed to meet and confer in good faith…”
 


[2]           Code of Civil
Procedure § 435.5 reads, in relevant part, as follows: “(a) Before filing a
motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and
confer in person, by telephone or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be
raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is filed, the responding
party shall meet and confer again with the party who filed the amended pleading
before filing a motion to strike the amended pleading. (1) As part of the meet
and confer process, the moving party shall identify all of the specific
allegations that it believes are subject to being stricken and identify with
legal support the basis of the deficiencies. The party who filed the pleading
shall provide legal support for its position that the pleading is legally
sufficient, or, in the alternative, how the pleading could be amended to cure
any legal insufficiency.
(2) The parties shall meet and confer at least 5 days before the
date a motion to strike must be filed. If the parties are unable to meet and
confer at least 5 days before the date the motion to strike must be filed, the
moving party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within
which to file a motion to strike, by filing and serving, on or before the date
a motion to strike must be filed, a declaration stating under penalty of
perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension
shall commence from the date the motion to strike was previously due, and the
moving party shall not be subject to default during the period of the
extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court order upon a
showing of good cause.
(3) The moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike
a declaration stating either of the following:
(A) The means by which the moving party met and conferred with the
party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike, and that the
parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised by the
motion to strike.
(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to
strike failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the moving party or
otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith…”
 

