 Case Number:  21STCV05798    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  K Background    
Plaintiffs Ethan Bergeron (“Ethan”) and Victoria Bergeron (“Victoria”) (together,
“Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On February
16, 2019, and at all relevant times, Victoria and Defendant Andrea Salazar (“Andrea”)
worked at a BJ’s Restaurant. On February 16, 2019, Andrea was babysitting
Victoria’s 4-year-old son Ethan when, without Victoria’s knowledge, Andrea took
Ethan to a party at a house owned by her brother, Defendant Adrian Salazar
(“Adrian”), and Adrian’s wife, Defendant Reina Guevara (“Guevara”). At the
party, Ethan “impacted” a sliding glass door, which shattered into large,
jagged pieces. One of these pieces pierced Ethan’s abdomen. Andrea pulled this
piece out of Ethan’s abdomen, which further ruptured his organs and muscles.
After the incident, Andrea physically and verbally harassed Victoria; although
Victoria complained, she was punished by having to change shifts to avoid
coming into contact with Andrea, which affected her time with Ethan.
On February 16, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of
action against Andrea, Adrian, Guevara, BJ’s Restaurants, Inc. (“BJ’s”) and
Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Premises
Liability
2.                 
Negligence
3.                 
Negligence
Per Se
4.                 
Product
Liability
5.                 
Harassment,
Assault and Battery
6.                 
Failure
to Prevent Harassment (Hostile Work Environment)
On October 14, 2021, Plaintiffs dismissed the fourth cause of action
against Adrian and Guevara only, without prejudice. On November 8, 2021, Andrea’s
default was entered.
On January 31, 2022, the court sustained BJ’s
demurrer to the second and sixth causes of action, with 30 days’ leave to
amend.
The Final Status
Conference is set for July 16, 2024. Trial is set for July 30, 2024.
1.         Adrian’s and Guevara’s Motion for
Summary Judgment
Adrian and Guevara move the court for summary judgment in their favor and
against Ethan and Victoria (together, “Plaintiffs”).
Code of Civil
Procedure § 437c, subdivision (h) Request for Continuance
At the outset, the
court notes that Plaintiffs’ counsel Kerry Zeiler (“Zeiler”) attests that
Andrea’s deposition was continued from its December date and then re-set for
the fourth time to January 24, 2023. (Zeiler Decl., ¶ 13). It is unclear to the
court whether Plaintiffs are seeking a continuance of the hearing based on Code
of Civil Procedure § 437c, subdivision (h) [i.e., “[i]f it appears from the
affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained, or discovery to be
had, or make any other order as may be just. . .”].
“To be entitled to a
continuance, the party opposing the motion for summary judgment must show that
its proposed discovery would have led to facts essential to justify
opposition.” (Scott v. CIBA Vision Corp. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 307, 326
[quotations and citation omitted]). The court does not believe that Zeiler’s
representation constitutes such a showing. Further, Zeiler represents that
Andrea (a co-defendant currently in default) “did not appear at her deposition
on the noticed date, and her deposition was rescheduled.” (Id.) This
information, then, does not suggest that Adrian and Guevara have in any way
impeded Plaintiffs’ ability to depose Andrea.
Finally, the instant
motion was filed on April 6, 2023 and originally set for hearing on June
22, 2023. Plaintiffs have had the moving papers for nearly nine months at
this juncture and have had more than ample time to procure any discovery they
felt was needed to oppose the motion. If Plaintiffs are, in fact, seeking a Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subdivision
(h) continuance, then the court will deny such request on the foregoing
basis.
Opposing Separate Statement

The court notes that
Plaintiffs’ “Separate Statement of Disputed & Undisputed Facts in
Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Summary
Adjudication” (“Separate Statement”) filed January 18, 2024 is deficient in its
current form, in that it does not correspond to Adrian and Guevara’s moving
separate statement.
For instance, Adrian
and Guevara’s moving separate statement is not broken into any issues or
separate causes of action and consists of 36 purported undisputed facts.
Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement, however, is broken down into three issues
(i.e., “ISSUE NO. 1: Plaintiffs First Cause of Action for Premises Liability
Based on the subject sliding glass door was defective in its manufacture,
design, or otherwise in some way fails because there is no evidence of defect
in manufacture or design,” “ISSUE NO. 2: Plaintiffs Second Cause of Action for
Negligence” and “ISSUE NO. 3: Plaintiffs Third Cause of Action for Negligence
per se”). Adrian and Guevara’s motion seeks summary judgment only, not summary
adjudication.
Additionally,
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement fails to address Adrian and Guevara’s “Undisputed
Material Facts and Supporting Evidence” “(DUMF”) Nos. 1-4 whatsoever.
Plaintiffs identify “On November 1, 2021, Defendants, Reina Guevara and Adrian
Salazar, served their answer to the Complaint denying each allegation against
them” as DUMF No. 1, when it is actually DUMF No. 5. This misnumbering
continues throughout Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement (i.e., Plaintiffs
erroneously identifies DUMF Nos. 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36 as
DUMF Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement
fails to address DUMF No. 8 whatsoever.
Also, California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1350, subdivision (f)(2)
provides that an opposing separate statement must “unequivocally state” whether
a fact is “disputed” or “undisputed,” and that “[a]n opposing party who
contends that a fact is disputed must state, on the right side of the page
directly opposite the fact in dispute, the nature of the dispute and describe
the evidence that supports the position that the fact is controverted. Citation
to the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted must
include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” Many of
Plaintiffs’ responses to Adrian’s
and Guevara’s  “Undisputed Material Facts
and Supporting Evidence” (“DUMF”) reflect non-compliance with the above CRC. (See
also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3).) For example, in response to DUMF Nos. 11 and 12 (erroneously identified as DUMF Nos. 6 and 7 by
Plaintiffs) (i.e., “Since the purchase of the house in 2014 until the time of
the incident giving rise to the herein litigation on February 16, 2019, no
changes were made to the sliding glass door” and “From October 2014 until
February 16, 2019, no one has run into the sliding glass door, there were no
injuries, and there were no other accident[s] involving the subject glass
door,” respectively), Plaintiffs identically state: “Disputed as unknown, and
on that basis, disputed. Cal. Evid. Code § 352.”
Also, in response to DUMF No. 10 (erroneously identified as DUMF No. 5 by
Plaintiffs (i.e., “At the time of purchase, no prior incidents involving the
sliding glass door were reported to Reina Guevara and Adrian Salazar,
Plaintiffs state: “Disputed. Neither Adrian Salazar nor Reina Guevara’s
declarations established any expertise upon which they could opine. (See MP
Decl. Salazar, Guevara). In the absence of evidence in the custody and control
of the defendant, the trier of fact is to may infer [sic] that the failure to
produce it is because it is detrimental to the defendant. (Cal. Evid. Code §
413; Williamson v. Superior Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 829 n. 2 [A trial is not a
game where one counsel may sit back and refuse to produce evidence where the
nature of things his client is the only source from which that evidence may be
secured]).”
Plaintiffs’ above responses do not “unequivocally state” whether the
facts are “disputed” or “undisputed” and does not provide any citation to the
evidence in support of her position that DUMF Nos. 11 and 12 are controverted,
including by reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.
The court will
continue the hearing on the motion to March 13, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. to permit
Plaintiffs’ counsel to address the foregoing deficiencies. Plaintiffs’ counsel
is instructed to file and serve a corrected Separate Statement no later than 14
calendar days prior to the continued hearing date. The court is not hereby
inviting, and will not consider, any additional briefings or filings of
declarations and/or exhibits, including but not limited to any deposition
testimony procured from Andrea. No further continuances will be provided.
2.         BJ’s Motion for Summary Judgment
BJ’s moves the court for summary judgment in their favor and against
Ethan and Victoria (together, “Plaintiffs”); in the alternative, BJ’s seeks
summary adjudication as follows:
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for
“Harassment and Assault and Battery” fails as a matter of law because (a)
Plaintiffs do not assert a claim on behalf of Ethan; (b) BJ’s cannot be held
vicariously for Salazar’s conduct because the alleged act was not within the
scope of employment; (c) Victoria’s claim is barred by workers’ compensation
preemption under Labor Code § 3601 and (d) Victoria cannot establish
ratification by BJ’s. 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 437c, subdivision (h) Request for Continuance
The court
incorporates its above discussion on Code of Civil § 437c, subdivision (h)
herein[1].
If Plaintiffs are, in fact, seeking a Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subdivision (h) continuance, then
the court will deny such request on the basis set forth above.
Opposing Separate
Statement
At the outset, the
court notes that Plaintiffs’ “Separate Statement of Disputed & Undisputed
Facts in Opposition to Defendants BJ’s Restaurants Motion for Summary Judgment
and/or Summary Adjudication” (“Separate Statement”) filed January 18, 2024, in
its current form, is deficient.
CRC Rule 3.1350, subdivision (f)(2) provides that an opposing separate
statement must “unequivocally state” whether a fact is “disputed” or
“undisputed,” and that “[a]n opposing party who contends that a fact is
disputed must state, on the right side of the page directly opposite the fact
in dispute, the nature of the dispute and describe the evidence that supports
the position that the fact is controverted. Citation to the evidence in support
of the position that a fact is controverted must include reference to the
exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” Plaintiffs’ responses to BJ’s “Undisputed Material Facts and
Supporting Evidence” (“DUMF”) Nos. 1, 5, 6, 10, 16, 18-24 and 26-29 reflect
non-compliance with the above CRC. (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(3).) For example, in response to DUMF No. 16 (i.e., “Plaintiff
Victoria Bergeron testified in deposition that, while working a morning shift,
Andrea Salazar passed by her and used her body o push Plaintiff Victoria
Bergeron out of the way”), Plaintiffs state: “Disputed. That is not what she
testified to. She was thrown into a table by being body slammed, and had to
closet herself in the bathroom for an hour as she cried about it.” Plaintiff’s
response does not provide any citation to the evidence in support of her
position that DUMF No. 16 is controverted, including by reference to the exhibit, title,
page, and line numbers. As another example, in response to DUMF No. 26 (i.e.,
“Plaintiff Victoria Bergeron testified in deposition that Andrea Salazar never
threatened her”), Plaintiffs state: “Disputed. An assault and battery is a
tort.” Plaintiffs’ response is essentially non-responsive. And, as to DUMF No.
28 and 29 (i.e., “Other than this one alleged push by Andres Salazar, there was
no other instance of touching without consent between Plaintiff Victoria
Bergeron and Andrea Salazar” and “Other than this one alleged push by Andrea
Salazar, there was no other instance of touching without consent between
Plaintiff Victoria Bergeron and any other co-worker at BJ’s,” respectively,
Plaintiff stated identically as follows: “Disputed as misleading. Cal. Evid.
Code § 352. An assault and battery is complete when it occurs. A pattern of
behavior is not required to establish a tort.” Plaintiffs’ response does not “unequivocally state” whether the facts
are “disputed” or “undisputed” and does not provide any citation to the
evidence in support of her position that DUMF Nos. 28 and 29 are controverted,
including by reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.
The court will
continue the hearing on the motion to March 13, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. to permit
Plaintiffs’ counsel to address the foregoing deficiencies. Plaintiffs’ counsel
is instructed to file and serve a corrected Separate Statement no later than 14
calendar days prior to the continued hearing date. The court is not hereby
inviting, and will not consider, any additional briefings or filings of
declarations and/or exhibits, including but not limited to any deposition
testimony procured from Andrea. No further continuances will be provided.
3.         Bifurcate
The court will
continue the hearing on BJ’s motion to bifurcate to the same date as the
motions for summary judgment.


