 Case Number:  22STCV18378    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE ANSWER 
Hearing Date: 11/13/24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV18378 ZHOIE PEREZ vs
MMR CENTER, INC.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant MMR Center
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: CONTINUED
 
On September 16, 2024,
the court issued a tentative ruling granting Plaintiff’s motion to strike
Defendant MMR Center’s answer. During the hearing, Defendant requested a
continuance and an opportunity to file an opposition.
On October 28, 2024,
Defendant filed the Declaration of Melissa Walters in response to Plaintiff’s
Motion. (See Minsal Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B, Walters Decl.) In her declaration, Ms.
Walters states that Defendant MMR Center remains suspended but anticipates
achieving good standing and corporate revival by mid-December 2024. Plaintiff
states that if this Court is inclined to give Defendant Santillan more time,
then Plaintiff requests a trial continuance to afford the parties necessary
time to litigate this matter appropriately once Defendant MMR Center’s capacity
issues are resolved.
The Court hereby continues
this matter to December 22, 2024, at 1:30 p.m. and orders Defendant to file a declaration
regarding MMR Center’s revival status no more than 3 days prior to that
continued date. Trial is currently scheduled for April 2, 2025. There is
sufficient time for Plaintiff to file a motion or stipulation to continue the
trial once Defendant’s capacity issue is resolved in December 2024.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 
 
 
 