 Case Number:  22STCV01540    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 11/12/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV01540 JENNY ITURRIOS,
et al. vs EAN HOLDINGS, LLC, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Sabrina Hicks
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
Background
This action arises from
an alleged multi-vehicle accident that occurred on June 28, 2020, on Interstate
405 near Centinela Avenue in Los Angeles County, California, involving
Plaintiffs Jenny Iturrios and Mayra Perez, Rashida Lenard (Plaintiff in related
case 22STCV04046), and Defendant Sabrina Nicole Hicks. Prior to the initiation
of this lawsuit, Plaintiffs Jenny Iturrios and Mayra Perez entered into a
settlement agreement with Defendant’s insurer, GEICO, and Rashida Lenard in the
related action, resolving all claims against Defendant arising from the
incident.
Despite this settlement
agreement, Plaintiffs filed this complaint asserting two causes of action:
negligence and negligence per se. Defendant now moves for summary judgment
based on the settlement agreement, and Plaintiffs did not file an opposition.
Legal Standard 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry
its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.;
see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in
the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court
decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in
the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant
summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id.
at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].) 
 
Discussion
 
On June 28, 2020,
Plaintiffs and Defendant were involved in a motor vehicle accident on
Interstate 405 near Centinela Avenue in Los Angeles County. At the time of the
accident, Defendant was covered by an automobile liability insurance policy
with GEICO, which provided bodily injury policy limits of $30,000 per person
and $60,000 per incident. (Def. Ex. B, C, D.)
On March 25, 2021,
Defense Counsel sent a letter to Plaintiffs’ Counsel, Sam Ryan Heidari, Esq.
("Mr. Heidari"), and to counsel for Mr. Lenard, Stephen P. Grayson,
Esq. ("Mr. Grayson"), offering the bodily injury policy limit to
Plaintiffs and Mr. Lenard as a global settlement. (Def. Ex. E.) On August 9,
2021, Defense Counsel sent a second letter reiterating the $60,000 policy limit
offer to Plaintiffs and Mr. Lenard. (Def. Ex. F.)
On August 10, 2021,
Plaintiffs’ counsel proposed an apportionment of the bodily injury policy limit
among the three claimants: Plaintiffs and Mr. Lenard. (Ex. G.) That same day,
Mr. Grayson agreed to the proposed apportionment. (Ex. G.) On August 11, 2021,
Defense Counsel confirmed the Settlement Agreement, reflecting GEICO's policy
limit offer and the apportionment agreed to by Plaintiffs and Mr. Lenard. (Ex.
G.) Defense Counsel then prepared Settlement Agreements for Plaintiffs based on
the agreed apportionment of the policy limits. (Ex. H, I.) On December 15,
2021, Plaintiffs’ counsel and Plaintiff Mayra Perez signed the Settlement
Agreement. (Ex. I.)
A settlement agreement
is a contract thus general contract principles apply. (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1988) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 810.) The essential
elements of a contract are: (1) parties capable of contracting; (2) the
parties' mutual consent; (3) a lawful purpose; and (4) consideration. (Civ.
Code § 1550; Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1224, 1230.) Here, Defendant has presented sufficient evidence to meet its
burden. First, each party was represented by counsel, demonstrating that the
parties were capable of contracting. Second, mutual consent was established
through email exchanges, in which both counsel for Lenard and Defendant agreed
to the apportionment of Defendant’s policy limit proposed by Plaintiff’s
attorney. Third, consideration is present as Defendant tendered its policy
limit in exchange for a full release related to the incident. Fourth, this is a
standard auto accident settlement, and there is no evidence of any unlawful
purpose.
The Court finds that
Defendant has met its initial burden of demonstrating a valid settlement
agreement, which serves as a complete defense to Plaintiff’s claims. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Plaintiff did not file an opposition and
therefore failed to raise a triable issue of fact. Accordingly, Defendant's
motion for summary judgment is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 