  Case Number:  21STCV40224    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL IME 
Hearing Date: 11/13/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV40224 ASMARE YOUSSEF
vs ANDRE MICHALANGELO, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Andre Adams
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
On October 28, 2024, the
Court granted Defendant’s Motion for Independent Medical Examination (IME) in
part and continued it to November 13, 2024, at 1:30 p.m. for further discussion
on IME logistics, specifically focusing on the location in light of Plaintiff’s
contention that he had moved to Texas. Plaintiff was ordered to provide the
Court, no later than 5 days prior to the continued hearing, with the same
evidence he had provided to Defendant regarding his current residential
address. 
Defendant has submitted
two declarations indicating his residence in Dallas, Texas. The first
declaration lists his address as 117 Fairbanks Drive, Garland, Texas, and the
second declaration includes a Texas driver’s license showing a different
address in Dallas, Texas. Both declarations were executed in Ethiopia. Based on
this evidence, the Court finds that Defendant has substantially complied with
the prior court order and has sufficiently established his Texas residency.
As previously ordered,
Defendant is entitled to Plaintiff’s IME. Plaintiff is ordered to provide Defendant
dates in the foreseeable future, if any, that he would be able to return to
California. If Defendant wishes for Plaintiff to travel specifically to
California for the IME, Defendant must cover Plaintiff's travel expenses.  Alternatively, Defendant may make
arrangements for the IME to occur in Dallas, Texas.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer
regarding the logistics of the requested IME in the next 7 days.  
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 