 Case Number:  22STCV31068    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE SUPPLEMENTAL EXPERT
DESIGNATION
Hearing Date: 11/13/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV31068 MISTY STEVENSON
vs VICTOR S. KAO, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant City of Los
Angeles
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: DENIED
 
Prior Hearing
 
On October 18, 2024,
the court issued a tentative order stating:
“the
use of supplemental designations is impermissible, such as: (1) adding an
expert on subjects already designated by the City in its original exchange; (2)
adding experts on new subjects not raised by an opposing party's designation;
or (3) substituting for an already-designated expert. [CCP § 2034.280(a); see
Basham v. Babcock (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1723, 52 Cal.Rptr.2d 456,
460—party dissatisfied with a designated expert's deposition testimony could
not call a supplementally named expert to testify on the same subjects at
trial.] However, Defendant argues that this situation does not fall under those
categories, as Dr. Shanfield, a foot and ankle specialist, is designated to
address a subject raised by Plaintiff through her designation of Dr. Ouzounian,
also a foot and ankle specialist. Defendant cites Du-All Safety, LLC v.
Superior Ct., 34 Cal.App.5th 485, 498–99, for the position that a party has
the right to supplement its expert witness exchange by adding experts to cover
subjects on which the other party indicates it plans to offer expert testimony,
and on which the opposing party had not previously retained an expert to
testify.” 
This
argument, however, is not supported by the evidence. First, Defendant attached
no exhibits or declarations, such as one from Dr. Shanfield, attesting to his
specialty as a foot and ankle specialist. Second, defense counsel’s
declarations regarding both the initial expert disclosure of Dr. Korchek and
the supplemental disclosure of Dr.Shanfield show that they are both orthopedic
surgeons, and the area of testimony is exactly the same. (Ex. G and Ex. I to
Motion.)”
The court heard
arguments from both parties and granted Defendant's counsel’s request for leave
to file a supplemental response on the issue. The court ordered that the
supplemental briefing be completed by October 25.
Analysis
On October 25, 2024,
Defendant submitted declarations from Dr. Jeffrey Korchek and Dr. Shanfield.
Dr. Korchek, a general orthopedic surgeon, stated that he is not qualified to
testify in the specialized field of foot and ankle surgery. In contrast, Dr. Shanfield
attested to his qualifications as a foot and ankle surgery specialist. 
The key question is
whether Defendant may supplement its expert witness exchange to address a
subject introduced by Plaintiff’s expert designation, as allowed under Du-All
Safety, LLC v. Superior Ct. (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 485, or whether Defendant
is barred from supplementing, as in Fairfax v. Lords (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 1019, which requires parties to anticipate all issues requiring
expert testimony and disclose experts on those issues simultaneously at the
outset.
In Fairfax (138
Cal.App.4th 1019), the defendant withheld any expert designation on a critical,
anticipated issue—the standard of care in a medical malpractice case—and
attempted to designate an expert only after reviewing Plaintiff’s expert
disclosure, which the court deemed impermissible. By contrast, in Du-All
(34 Cal.App.5th 485), the defendant initially disclosed general experts (a
safety consultant and structural engineer) and later supplemented with
specialized experts, including a life care planner, after Plaintiff designated
experts in these areas. The court found this permissible under Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2034.280, as Defendant’s supplemental disclosure responded to new,
unanticipated areas introduced by Plaintiff’s designations.
Here, Defendant
initially designated a general orthopedic surgeon to address musculoskeletal
issues broadly, including the foot and ankle. Unlike in Fairfax, where
the defendant deliberately withheld an expert designation to "reserve the
right" to identify rebuttal experts after seeing Plaintiff's designations,
Defendant acted in good faith by designating a generalist without anticipating
the need for a foot and ankle subspecialist. In Fairfax, the defendant
withheld expert designation on the core issue of standard of care in a medical
malpractice case, an essential issue that should have been anticipated. Here,
however, Defendant designated an expert on Plaintiff’s injuries, which would
have sufficed but for Plaintiff’s subsequent disclosure of a foot and ankle
specialist, introducing an unforeseen level of specialization. Although not
perfectly aligned, this case is more similar to Du-All, where a
supplemental designation was allowed in response to new areas introduced by
Plaintiff’s experts.
Furthermore, the Court
finds no evidence of bad faith or gamesmanship by Defendant, and Plaintiff is
not shown to suffer substantial prejudice beyond having to address a
specialized expert. Accordingly, in light of these considerations, Plaintiff’s
motion to strike is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 