

 
            This is an
action brought under the Song-Beverly Act originally by Plaintiffs
Aaron Caver (Caver) and Tynisha Knox (Knox) against Defendant Kia Motors
America, Inc. (Kia) and DOES 1-10. Plaintiffs are co-owners of a 2016 Kia Soul
(Vehicle). Initially, Knox leased the Vehicle by herself in December 2015 from
Kia of Downtown. Then, in January 2020, Knox and Caver purchased the Vehicle
together.
 
On March 20, 2023, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. The Court sustained the demurrer based
on uncertainty. 
 
            The
Second Amended Complaint alleged claims for (1) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d), (2) Plaintiff
Knox’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(b), (3) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subdivision (a)(3), (4) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of action for breach of
express written warranty, (5) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of action for breach of
implied warranty of merchantability, (6) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of action for violation
of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d), (7) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b), (8) Plaintiff
Caver’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3), (9) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of action for breach of express written
warranty, and (10) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of merchantability.
 
Defendant Kia then demurred again to
the entire SAC. Defendant Kia also moved to strike the entire SAC on the grounds
that it does not comply with a court order. The Court sustained the demurrer as
to the first through tenth causes of action with leave to amend; the motion to
strike was deemed moot. 
On the Third Amended Complaint, only
Plaintiff Knox remains. The TAC alleges causes of
action for (1.) a violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d), (2.)
a violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b), (3.) a violation of
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3), (4.) a breach of express written
warranty, and (5.) a breach of implied warranty of merchantability.
Defendant Kia demurred to the entire TAC. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. The
Court sustained the demurrer in its entirety with leave to amend.
 
A Fourth Amended Complaint was filed,
which alleges causes of action for (1.) a violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subdivision (d), (2.) a violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (b), (3.) a violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3), (4.) a breach of express written warranty, and (5.) a breach of implied
warranty of merchantability
 
Now, Defendant Kia moves to strike portions
of the Fourth Amended Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
 
The motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend.
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Punitive
Damages Allegations
 
            Defendant
Kia moves to strike the request for punitive damages on the grounds that there
is no fraud
claim – only Song-Beverly statutory claims that do not allow punitive damages. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Song-Beverly provides for recovery of punitive damages in
cases of a willful breach.
 
            Under the
circumstances here, Plaintiff cannot recover statutory damages under
Song-Beverly and punitive damages. 
 
            The
Song-Beverly Act provides that, for a willful violation, in addition to actual
damages, a buyer may recover “a civil penalty which shall not exceed two times
the amount of actual damages ....” (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c).) It further
provides: “The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and shall not
be construed as restricting any remedy that is otherwise available ....” (Civ.
Code, § 1790.4.)
 
            A
statutory penalty under the Song-Beverly Act “is imposed as punishment or
deterrence of the defendant, rather than to compensate the plaintiff,” and
therefore “is akin to punitive damages. [Citation.]” (Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz
of North America, Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 184.) “[I]f a defendant
is liable for a statutory penalty ..., the award is punitive in nature, and the
award penalizes essentially the same conduct as an award of punitive damages[,
t]he plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages in addition to that recovery but
must elect its remedy. [Citations.] ... We presume that the Legislature did not
intend to allow such a double recovery absent a specific indication to the
contrary. [Citations.]” (Fassberg Construction Co. v. Housing Authority of
City of Los Angeles (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 720, 759-760.)
 
Thus, the
key question is whether the statutory penalty and the award of punitive damages
“penalize[ ] essentially the same conduct ....” (Fassberg Construction Co.
v. Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at pp.
759-760.)
 
            Here,
the Fourth Amended Complaint only contains causes of action for violations of
the Song-Beverly Act. As a result, the punitive damages request is based on the
same conduct as the underlying the statutory claims. On
this basis, the motion to strike punitive damages is granted. 
 
Revocation/Recission
Allegations
 
Defendant Kia
also moves to strike the allegations that Plaintiff timely revoked acceptance
and cancelled the Lease. Based the allegation that the Lease was cancelled, Plaintiff
requests recission and restitution. 
 
In moving to strike, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff could not have timely revoked acceptance of the Vehicle
and cancelled the Lease because she subsequently purchased the Vehicle after
the Lease was fully paid.
 
Specifically, the SAC alleges she
purchased the Vehicle after the lease term ended. (SAC ¶¶ 9, 50.) As such,
there was no timely revocation of acceptance and the remedy for breach of
implied warranty is diminution in value. 
 
The Opposition argues that there is
no specific time limit by which a party must accept or revoke the goods. While
true, the SAC affirmatively demonstrates acceptance from the purchase of the Vehicle
following the lease. Based on this acceptance, Plaintiff cannot longer exercise
the right to revoke and rescind. 
 
Section 1794
describes two different remedies available for consumers seeking relief under
Song-Beverly for a breach of the implied warranty of merchantability. If the
buyer has rightfully rejected or justifiably revoked acceptance of the goods or
has exercised any right to cancel the sale, “ ‘the buyer may ... recover[ ] so
much of the price as has been paid ....’ ” (Mocek v. Alfa Leisure, Inc.
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 402, 406; see Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (b)(1).) However,
“[w]here the buyer has accepted the goods, ... the measure of damages shall
include the cost of repairs necessary to make the goods conform.” (§ 1794,
subd. (b)(2).) That is, the remedies available under Song-Beverly hinge upon
whether the buyer has rejected or accepted the goods. Further, it is only when
the buyer has rightfully rejected the goods that the buyer can recover the
purchase price or what he or she paid under the lease.
 
Plaintiff’s reliance on Niedermeier v. FCA US LLC (2024) 15
Cal.5th 792 is not well taken. As preliminary matter, the California Supreme
Court did not broadly hold – as argued by Plaintiff – that California Uniform Commercial
Code cannot in any way limit the remedies referenced in Song Beverly. Rather, Niedermeier
specifically determined that a civil penalty under Section 1793.2,
subdivision (d)(2), did not need to be reduced by either a trade-in credit or sale
proceeds “at least where, as here, a consumer has been forced to trade in or sell
a defective vehicle due to the manufacturer's failure to comply with the Act.”
(Niedermeier v. FCA US LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th 792, 801.) 
 
Here, there
are no allegations that Plaintiff was obligated to purchase the Vehicle.
Certainly, Plaintiff was not obligated to purchase the Vehicle in order to
obtain a remedy under the statute. (See Martinez v. Kia Motors America, Inc.
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 187, 191 [no requirement that a plaintiff still possess
a vehicle to bring a claim under the Song-Beverly Act].)


Thus, the
allegations demonstrate an acceptance of the goods, limiting the available
remedies under the Song-Beverly Act. On this basis, the motion to strike the
prayer for
“recission, reimbursement and/or restitution of all monies expended” is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff
shall not have leave to amend. 
 