  Case Number:  21STCV41026    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-3-24
Case #21STCV41026 , Kimberly
Gallegos, et al. vs. Consolidated Disposal Service, LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Alex and Kimberly Gallegos and
Plaintiff Angel Sanchez
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles Truck Centers,
LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs are requesting that the Court consolidate
their two cases.
 
RULING: Motion to consolidate is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiffs Alexa and Kim Gallegos (Gallegos Plaintiffs)
and Plaintiff Angel Sanchez (Sanchez) are requesting an order from the Court to
consolidate LASC Case Nos. 21STCV41026 (hereinafter “Gallegos Matter”) and
21STCV42588 (hereinafter “Sanchez Matter”).
 
The two cases arise from a single motor vehicle collision
on November 20, 2019. Sebastien Gallegos (Decedent) and Angel Sanchez were
passengers in a vehicle driven by Eugene Oh. The vehicle driven by Oh and a
dump truck operated by Defendant Lizares on behalf of Defendant Consolidated
Disposal Services, LLC (Consolidated) were involved in a collision. Sebastien
Gallegos and Eugen Oh both died from injuries sustained in the collision.
Sanchez was injured.
 
On November 8, 2021, the parents of Sebastien Gallegos,
the Gallegos Plaintiffs, through prior counsel, filed a wrongful death
complaint against the Estate of Eugene Oh and his parents. On November 17,
2021, Sanchez filed a personal injury complaint alleging causes of action of
negligence against the dump truck operators and products liability claims
against the manufacturer and distributor of the dump truck’s roll-off portion,
including the rear impact guard. Sanchez had already settled his claim against
the Oh Defendants. On November 17, 2021, the Gallegos Plaintiffs filed a
substitution of counsel and a First Amended Complaint with additional
allegations identical to those in the Sanchez Complaint against the operators
of the dump truck and manufacturer/distributor of the roll-off portion of the
subject truck. Subsequently, cross-complaints were filed against the Oh
Defendants in both cases. Thus, the Oh Defendants were named as Defendants in
the Gallegos Matter and Cross-Defendants in both the Sanchez Matter and
Gallegos Matter. On December 14, 2023, the unopposed Good Faith Settlement
application filed by the Oh Defendants was granted in the Sanchez Matter.
 
In support of their motion to consolidate, Plaintiffs
argue that the facts in dispute in the related cases are virtually identical. Plaintiffs
also anticipate the evidence on liability and causation in both matters will be
the same, arguing that the only difference will be evidence of wrongful death
non-economic damages in the Gallegos Matter versus personal injury economic and
non-economic damages in the Sanchez Matter. Plaintiffs also argue that having
two trials would create an unnecessary burden for the Court and could create
problems of inconsistent findings and verdicts.
 
Defendant Los Angeles Truck Centers, LLC, (LATC) is the
only defendant that has filed an opposition to the consolidation. LATC is one
of the trucking companies named in Plaintiffs’ complaints. LATC argues in its
opposition that permitting mention of Decedent’s death in the personal injury
action would unduly prejudice LATC. Next, it argues that any consolidation
should be limited to pre-trial purposes, but it should not extend to jury
trials. Finally, LATC argues that denial of LATC’s constitutional right to an
impartial jury would constitute reversible error.
 
Plaintiffs argue in their reply that Defendant’s
opposition lacks legal authority to support its arguments and that their
arguments for consolidation are supported by legal authority.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP § 1048(a) provides that when actions involving common
questions of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint
hearing or trial of any or all of the matter in issue in the actions; it may
order all the actions consolidated; and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. (See also Sanchez
v. Sup. Ct. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1391.) Consolidation of cases under CCP §
1048 rests within the sound discretion of the trial judge. (Walker v. Walker
(1960) 177 Cal.App.2d 89, 91.)
 
The court may order “a complete consolidation or
consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions are merged into a single
proceeding under one case number and result in only one verdict or set of
findings and one judgment.” (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1127, 1147.)
 
To determine whether consolidation is appropriate, the Court
should consider the following factors: 1) timeliness of the motion, 2)
complexity of the actions, and/or 3) prejudice to any party. (See Weil &
Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) ¶
12:362, p. 12(1)-66].)
 
Plaintiffs argue that their motion is timely because no
trial date has been set yet and that the timing of their motion would ease the
burden on the Court and facilitate the matter going forward. Next, Plaintiffs
argue that there is nothing so complex about this case that it would require
two separate trials or separate discovery, as the cases originate from a single
collision and would have identical facts and evidence. Finally, Plaintiffs
argue that it would be prejudicial not to consolidate because there would be
additional burdens of duplicative discovery, experts and trial preparation, as
well as the danger of inconsistent rulings.
 
The only case that LATC cites in support of its argument
that it would be prejudiced is Fisher v. Nash Bldg. Co. (1952) 113
Cal.App.2d 397, which involved a property dispute where one party was not
disputing monies being owed. The court in that case denied consolidation
because there was no intermingling of the facts. That is not the situation in
the present case, where all of the facts arise out of the same collision.
 
Defendant also cites Sanchez v. Super. Ct. (1988) 203
Cal.App.3d 1391 in support of its argument that the cases should be
consolidated for “pre-trial purposes” only. That case discusses two types of
consolidation: “complete consolidation resulting in a single action, and a
consolidation of separate actions for trial. Under the former procedure, which
may be utilized where the parties are identical and the causes could have been
joined, the pleadings are regarded as merged, one set of findings is made, and
one judgment is rendered. In a consolidation for trial, the pleadings,
verdicts, findings and judgments are kept separate; the actions are simply
tried together for the sake of convenience and judicial economy.” (Id.
at 1396.) Neither of these matches Defendant’s proposed “pre-trial purposes”
only version. The type of consolidation that would fit this case would be
consolidation of separate actions for trial. 
 
In Sanchez v. Super. Ct., which also involved an auto
accident, described the cases as follows: “These two cases were consolidated
for the purpose of being tried together only. While it is clear that the two
actions arose from the same incident, nonetheless there were two different sets
of plaintiffs who pleaded their cases separately and would presumably expect
separate judgments.” (Id. at 1396.) That would also be the situation in
this case, where the Plaintiffs have some causes of action in common, but the Gallegos
Plaintiffs have filed an action for wrongful death, while Sanchez has filed a
personal injury action.
 
As for LATC’s argument that consolidation would deprive it
of its right to a fair jury trial, that is simply not true. Regardless of
whether the actions were consolidated, the facts of the accident, including the
deaths, would be presented at trial. LATC could not avoid these facts by
keeping the actions separate. The Court does not find that LATC would be deprived
of its right to a fair jury trial by the consolidation of the actions.
 
The Court, in its discretion, finds that Plaintiffs’ motion
was timely, the cases are not so complex that they should not be consolidated,
and that no party would be prejudiced by the consolidation. It is in the
interest of judicial economy to consolidate these actions so that discovery and
the trials are not duplicative.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to consolidate is granted. LASC Case Nos.
21STCV41026 and 21STCV42588 are ordered consolidated for trial.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.