  Case Number:  21STCV13453    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
            Defendants
now move this court for an order staying this case, on the grounds that they are
under investigation by the EPA and have been charged with a felony by the Los
Angeles District Attorney.
 
Decision
 
            The
motion is GRANTED, in part. The case is STAYED, with the sole exception
that the parties may continue to seek non-party discovery.
 
Discussion
 
            In
ordinary civil actions with parallel criminal proceedings, this court would be
called upon to exercise its discretion as set forth in Fuller v.
Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 299, 307-308. A stay of the
case is generally appropriate where the criminal case arises out of the same
transaction as the civil case and the applicable criminal statute of limitations
is likely to run comparatively soon. See Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690 (case involving battery of federal officers
stayed where federal statute would run out in just less than two years). A stay
order may be less appropriate where (as here) the party invoking the privilege
is not the only defendant and the length of the stay is unknown. See Avant!
Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 886-887
(providing a list of generic factors to be analyzed).
 
            However, this
is not an ordinary case. This is an enforcement action brought by two
prosecutorial bodies on behalf of the People of the State of California. It is
not clear whether different rules of priority apply here than they would in a
case with private party plaintiffs.
 
            Additionally,
the precise parameters of this case are largely unexplored, as are the
parameters of the other criminal action or actions. Facially, the only
overlapping claim is the one for public nuisance. But the extent of the overlap
seems nearly impossible to determine. 
 
For these reasons, discussed in
more detail in its prior order, the court requested supplemental briefing from
the parties on three questions: (1) whether any authority suggests that an
enforcement action should be treated differently, in this specific context, than
any other civil action would be, (2) whether any discovery could be conducted
without Fifth Amendment implications, or was at risk of being lost if not
conducted now, and (3) what physical acts are at issue in the criminal case and
whether there was a projected timeline for that case.
 
            That
briefing has now come in. Plaintiffs could cite to no case or statute that
requires this court to deviate from the usual Fuller analysis which it
would apply to any other case. And there is no further indication of how broad
or narrow the criminal case may be, or what timeline it might follow. That
leaves the court to “weigh the parties' competing interests with a view toward
accommodating the interests of both parties, if possible” in light of the discussion
about discovery. See Fuller, supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at
307-308.
 
            Plaintiff’s
position that discovery can just go forward, with Defendants making their
objections and the court making rulings, is a bit sanguine. It is true that the
corporate defendants have no Fifth Amendment rights and could be compelled at
least to produce documents, even where the corporation is solely owned and
operated by one person. Braswell v. U.S. (1988) 487 U.S. 99. But whether
such a corporation could be compelled to answer interrogatories or other
discovery processes is an open question. Id. at 118 fn.11. And then there
are the complexities of evaluating the Fifth Amendment objections that will
surely be raised by the individual Defendants.
 
In a civil context, the party
asserting a Fifth Amendment objection must, on a question-by-question basis,
demonstrate a “nexus” between the information requested and the risk of
criminal prosecution. Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2020) 45
Cal.App.5th 1098, 1125 (defendant compelled to answer because he
failed to demonstrate a nexus between his criminal indictments for currency
transactions in 2012-2014 and his financial data from the same time period).
This nexus must give rise to a “reasonable belief” or “reasonable fear” that
his testimony will require him to incriminate himself. Blackburn v. Superior
Court (1993) 21 Cal.App.4th 414, 431. “[T]he trial court [must]
clearly state for the record the basis for its conclusion whether the claim of
privilege (or, stated differently, the fear of incrimination) is reasonably
asserted and valid with respect to each question propounded.” Warford v.
Medeiros (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1048.
 
If the court were to undertake that
sort of detailed evaluation at the discovery stage, this case would greatly impact this court's calendar. And, ultimately, without knowing more about the criminal
prosecution, the exercise might well prove futile. The court might not be able
to make a reasoned ruling without more information, and counsel would have
wasted their time, and their clients’ money, all for naught. In turn, the lack
of information might hinder either party from filing for summary judgment or
(more likely) meaningfully opposing it. No one would be served by a Code of
Civil Procedure § 437c(h) denial of summary judgment based on Fifth
Amendment failures to answer questions.
 
By far the more sensible approach here
is to avoid the Fifth Amendment discovery morass altogether, and to avoid any
substantive consequences that may result. This is especially true in light of
the fact that at least two of the three other cases in this orbit appear to have
settled.
 
            There is
one activity which the parties might safely continue: non-party discovery. As
Plaintiffs point out, there are no Fifth Amendment issues at play there, and
Defendants offer no objection to that sort of discovery in their supplemental
briefing. In the absence of any reason to forbid that sort of discovery, it
should be permitted. Counsel ought to prepare their case while it is fresh, as
much as possible.
 
Conclusion
 
            The
pending criminal proceeding will clearly impede discovery proceedings in this
case, raising complex constitutional issues and resulting in expenditure of
time and money that may be best used elsewhere. It is best that court and
counsel avoid such an obstacle course rather than try to run it. Therefore, the
motion is GRANTED, in part. The case is STAYED, with the sole exception
that the parties may continue to seek non-party discovery.