  Case Number:  21STCV42736    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  S25 Defendant Ivory Holdings, LLC’s Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff Ophie Beltran to Provide Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One; and Request for Sanctions 

Prior to hearing, Plaintiff Ophie Beltran served substantially code-compliant responses to Defendant’s Request for Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One.  Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is denied. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.  Plaintiffs’ counsel, a sole practitioner, submitted a declaration setting forth various medical challenges he experienced since November 2023 including: the flu in early November 2023, followed by pneumonia from mid-November through December 2023, and COVID-19 in February 2024.  As a result of these illnesses, counsel admits he suffered “confusion,” “brain fog,” and “fatigue” which caused him to fall behind in his work responsibilities.  (Tamer Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, 5; Exhs. B, C, D.)  Based upon these representations, the Court finds substantial justification for counsel’s failure to timely respond to Defendant’s Request for Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One (Set One) and the Court denies Defendant’s request for sanctions.  Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(c). 

Defendant Ivory Holdings, LLC’s Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff Ophie Beltran to Provide Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One; and Request for Sanctions
Prior to hearing, Plaintiff Ophie Beltran served substantially code-compliant responses to Defendant’s Request for Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is denied. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.Plaintiffs’ counsel, a sole practitioner, submitted a declaration setting forth various medical challenges he experienced since November 2023 including: the flu in early November 2023, followed by pneumonia from mid-November through December 2023, and COVID-19 in February 2024. As a result of these illnesses, counsel admits he suffered “confusion,” “brain fog,” and “fatigue” which caused him to fall behind in his work responsibilities. (Tamer Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, 5; Exhs. B, C, D.) Based upon these representations, the Court finds substantial justification for counsel’s failure to timely respond to Defendant’s Request for Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One (Set One) and the Court denies Defendant’s request for sanctions. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(c).Defendant Ivory Holdings, LLC’s Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff Ophie Beltran to Provide Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One; and Request for SanctionsPrior to hearing, Plaintiff Ophie Beltran served substantially compliant responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is denied. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300.Plaintiffs’ counsel, a sole practitioner, submitted a declaration setting forth various medical challenges he experienced since November 2023 including: the flu in early November 2023, followed by pneumonia from mid-November through December 2023, and COVID-19 in February 2024. As a result of these illnesses, counsel admits he suffered “confusion,” “brain fog,” and “fatigue” which caused him to fall behind in his work responsibilities. (Tamer Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, 5; Exhs. B, C, D.) Based upon these representations, the Court finds substantial justification for counsel’s failure to timely respond to Defendant’s Request for Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (Set One) and the Court denies Defendant’s request for sanctions. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(c).


 Defendant Ivory Hol
