  Case Number:  22STCV34229    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  26 On January 22, 2024, Counsel for the parties participated in
an informal discovery conference with the Court, at the conclusion of which the
parties agreed as follows:
 
No later than February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs will voluntarily
supplement their responses to Special Interrogatories (multiple sets)  and to Requests for Production (multiple
sets) and the document productions themselves.
 
The deadline for Defendants to file and serve motions to
compel Plaintiffs’ further responses to any written discovery for which the
deadline has not already expired is hereby extended to March 8, 2024.
 
The parties entered into these stipulations in open Court.  Prior to finalizing this minute order, the
Court posted this minute order on the Court’s online tentative ruling website,
and all Counsel agreed to the accuracy of this minute order in reflecting the
parties’ stipulations.
 
If the parties fully resolve all pending discovery issues
relating to the pending motions to compel further, the moving party must
promptly take any pending motion off-calendar via the Court Reservation System
(“CRS”) and cancel all CRS reservations
 
For any motion to compel further in this action that has
been filed or will be filed in the future, the responding party’s voluntary
service of supplemental responses prior to the hearing will moot all issues for
the motion except for sanctions.  The
parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding sanctions and to file a joint
statement within 5 days of the service of supplemental responses; the joint
statement must advise that supplemental responses have been served and advise whether
the parties have been able to resolve the sole remaining issue of sanctions.  In order to demonstrate that supplemental
responses have been served thereby mooting a pending motion to compel further,
the responding party must also file and serve a copy of the verified
supplemental responses no later than when the opposition is due.  If the moving party deems that the
supplemental responses remain deficient and/or non-code compliant, the moving
party must timely (within 45 days of service of the supplemental responses)
file and serve a new motion to compel further complying with all statutory
requirements, including a meet and confer regarding the supplemental responses
and a separate statement that includes all responses (original and
supplemental).  The moving party may
contact Department 26 to request a further informal discovery conference to
discuss the remaining disputes following the service of supplemental
responses.  The parties are ordered to
file a joint statement of items remaining in dispute no later than 5 days before
the further IDC.
 
Defendants to give notice and file proof of service.