  Case Number:  23STCV09571    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DENISE DORIS, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BALDWIN HILLS MULTIFAMILY LLC, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.







     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV09571
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO
  PLAINTIFFS’ THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date:  December 12, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56



 
MOVING PARTIES:             Defendant Mark Crawford, Mary Crawford aka Joanna Crawford,
Apts Managements LLC, Gelber Apts, LLC, and Expo Apts, LLC 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs Denise Doris, et al. 
            
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
BACKGROUND
This
is an action which arises from allegedly uninhabitable conditions in four
adjacent apartment complexes located at 4018 Gelber Place, Los Angeles, CA
90008, 4024 Gelber Place, Los Angeles, CA 90008, 4029 Gelber Place, Los
Angeles, CA 90008, and 4036 Gelber Place, Los Angeles, CA 90008 (the “Subject
Properties”).  On August 19, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) against, inter alia,
Defendants Mark Crawford, Mary Crawford a/k/a Joanna Crawford, Apts Mgmt, LLC,
Gelber Apts, LLC, and Expo Apts, LLC (collectively, the “Crawford Defendants”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability; (3) breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment; (4) nuisance; (5) premises liability; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (7) negligent infliction of emotional
distress; (8) violation of Civil Code §1942.4; (9) constructive eviction and
willful interruption of services; (10) retaliation; (11) harassment; (12)
violation of unfair competition laws; (13) violation of tenant anti-harassment
ordinance; (14) violation of Civil Code §1940.3(b); (15) violation of Fair
Employment and Housing Act; (16) violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act; (17)
violation of disabled persons act; (18) intentional misrepresentation; (19)
negligent misrepresentation; and (20) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.  As in the previous
versions of the complaint, only the first through twelfth and the twentieth
causes of action are directed at the Crawford Defendants. 
 
The
Crawford Defendants filed a demurrer to the TAC pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.010 on the ground that they have been improperly joined in this
action. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
The
meet and confer requirement has been met. (Levine Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            “A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)
“[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Id.)  “The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations, giving them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.” 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  In the demurrer context a court “may also
take notice of exhibits attached to the complain[t].”  (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)  “If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence.”  (Id.)
 
            A party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has
been filed may file a special demurrer on the ground that there is a defect or
misjoinder of parties. (Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(d); Union Carbide
Corp. v. Superior Court (1977) 36 Cal. 3d 15, 21-22.) This defect
must appear on the fact of the complaint or in matters judicially noticed. (Royal
Surplus Lines Ins. Co., Inc. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th
193, 198.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 389, “defect” means a
necessary or indispensable party is absent from the action. Whereas,
“misjoinder” states that a party has been improperly joined to an action.
 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 379(a)(1) provides:
(a)
All persons may be joined in one action as defendants if there is asserted
against them:
(1)
any right to relief jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or
arising out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences and if any question of law or fact common to all persons will arise
in the action; or
(2)
a claim, right, or interest adverse to them in the property or controversy
which is the subject of the action.
Special
Demurrer for Misjoinder Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(d)
 
             The Crawford
Defendants specially demur to the TAC on the ground that they have been
improperly joined in this action as there are no common questions of law or
fact arising out of the same transaction or events for all of the named defendants.
(Demurrer at pp. 10-13.)
 
            “Although modern joinder statutes are to be liberally
construed and applied, neither the statutes nor the case law in California
permit unlimited joinder.” (Hoag  v.
Sup. Ct. (1962) 207 Cal. App. 2d 611, 618.) Where there has been no showing
that different defendants operated cooperatively to cause the injury, a
plaintiff has not established that defendants are jointly and severally liable.
(Id.) In Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Adams (1985) 170 Cal. App. 3d
712 (disapproved on other grounds by Garvey v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (1989) 48 Cal. 3d 395), an insurance company sued numerous
homeowner policy holders for declaratory relief seeking a judicial declaration
that the policy did not provide coverage for damages arising from a single
storm. The court held there was a misjoinder of parties even though the same
storm played a role in each claim. The court stated that while it may be
possible to join certain of the defendants together under a more specific
factual allegations, it was improper to label damages herein to innumerable
types of structures occurring at widely separate locations across the state,
resulting from a myriad of causes and under various conditions as the same
transaction or occurrence. (Id. at 723.)
 
            Here, Plaintiffs have alleged that, during the relevant
time period, several different individuals and entities as defendants have had ownership
and/or management interests in the Subject Properties. (TAC ¶¶ 5, 74-105.) They
allege these defendants have failed to maintain the Subject Properties in a
habitable condition and were aware of the unsafe and unsanitary conditions
present at the Subject Properties. (Id. at ¶¶ 2-3, 5-7.) As to the
Crawford Defendants, they are alleged to have had an interest in the Subject
Properties to varying degrees between February 2012 to November 2017. (Id. at
¶¶ 84-93.) The only allegation linking the Crawford Defendants with the
remaining defendants is an allegation that each defendant was an agent of the
other defendants during the relevant periods of time (Id. at ¶ 105.)
However, there are no allegations to suggest that the Crawford Defendants’
ownership or management of the Subject Properties overlapped with those of the
remaining defendants or that they acted cooperatively with them.
 
            Plaintiffs argue that the Crawford Defendants have a
common interest in all four of the properties based on the overlap of ownership
and management of the Subject Properties. (Opposition at pg. 4.) Plaintiffs
make the conclusory argument that, “Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendants,
including the Crawford Defendants, have a strong factual relationship because they all arose from Plaintiffs’
respective tenancies at one of the subject properties. (TAC ¶¶ 1-3, 9-72.)  Plaintiffs argue that since all of their
claims arise from their tenancies at the subject properties that Plaintiffs
allege, on information and belief, were
owned and/or managed by each named Defendant, joinder between all
Defendants is proper under California’s broad and liberal joinder statute.”
(Opposition, p. 4, emphasis added.)
 
While
the allegations within the TAC suggest that there may be a common issue
regarding the purported mismanagement and uninhabitable conditions of the
Subject Properties, the TAC fails to show how the Crawford Defendants “operated
cooperatively” with the remaining defendants to cause Plaintiffs’ injuries. (Hoag,
supra, 207 Cal. App. 2d at 618.)  Plaintiffs fail to allege specific facts by
which these Defendants are connected that are anything more than coincidence in
owning or managing nearby properties.  Moreover,
while the TAC alleges that all defendants were agents of the other, this conclusory
allegation is undermined by the fact that the Crawford Defendants’ ownership or
management of the Subject Properties did not overlap with the remaining
defendants. Thus, as alleged, any conduct of the Crawford Defendants relating
to Subject Properties cannot be imputed on the remaining defendants and vice
versa. As a result, any harm that the Plaintiffs may have suffered as a result
of the Crawford Defendants’ mismanagement is unrelated to the harm purportedly
caused by the remaining defendants. Therefore, the Crawford Defendants have
been improperly joined in this action and any viable claim should be made in a
separate lawsuit against them. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court sustains the instant demurrer
because the Crawford Defendants have been improperly joined in this action.
 


 
Leave to Amend
“Where the defect raised
by … demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and
liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. 
(See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs again request the Court to grant leave to
amend in order to cure the defect found in the TAC. (Opposition at pp. 9.)  Plaintiffs were advised in the July 30, 2024
ruling that they were being given their last chance to amend the complaint in
this case.  Plaintiffs failed to
substantively amend the complaint.  Additionally,
Plaintiffs fail to show how the issue of misjoinder can be cured because
Plaintiffs do not suggest in their opposition that the Crawford Defendants
acted cooperatively with the remaining defendants to cause harm to the
Plaintiffs. 
 
Thus, because Plaintiffs have failed to meet their
burden, the Court denies their request for leave to amend. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, because the Crawford Defendants
have been improperly joined in this action, the Court SUSTAINS their demurrer without
leave to amend. 
 
The
Crawford Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        
 Dated this 12th day of December
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



