This is a legal malpractice suit.  Defendants Kennedy Myers Law Offices LLP and Stefan Kennedy now seek to compel arbitration in Santa Clara County.  Defendants Greenberg Glusker Fields Claman & Machtinger LLP and Pierce O’Donnell seek to compel arbitration in Los Angeles County.Plaintiff Catherine Zimmermann does not deny that valid arbitration agreements encompass her claims.  Instead, she argues that the two arbitration proceedings should be consolidated in one location under Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.3.  Alternatively, she asks that the Court deny arbitration altogether.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(c).)  Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(c) provides, “A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. . . .”  Moreover, “If the court determines that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”Plaintiff has failed to cite any authority in which Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(c) has been applied to two arbitration proceedings.  This section typically applies when there would be a conflict if some claims were arbitrated while others were litigated.  Next, Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.3 states, “A party to an arbitration agreement may petition the court to consolidate separate arbitration proceedings, and the court may order consolidation of separate arbitration proceedings when: (1) Separate arbitration agreements or proceedings exist between the same parties; or one party is a party to a separate arbitration agreement or proceeding with a third party; and (2) The disputes arise from the same transactions or series of related transactions; and (3) There is common issue or issues of law or fact creating the possibility of conflicting rulings by more than one arbitrator or panel of arbitrators.”Plaintiff’s opposition is not a “petition” to the Court, and so, this request is denied without prejudice.Substantively, the Court notes that Defendants cite two cases for the proposition that different venue clauses should preclude consolidation as consolidation would substantially affect the parties’ contract rights.  (See Hyundai Am., Inc. v. Meissner & Wurst GmbH & Co. (N.D. Cal. 1998) 26 F.Supp.2d 1217, 1219; Parker v. McCaw (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1504.)  These cases, however, are somewhat distinguishable.  In Hyundai, the court’s decision was partly premised on the fact that there were also different choice of law provisions, with one agreement requiring Oregon law and the other California law.  In addition to different choice of law provisions, in Parker, the Court’s decision was largely predicated on the fact that one agreement required a panel of three arbitrators while the other only required one.  Here, it’s not totally clear why a difference only in venue within California would preclude consolidation.  Notably, “[a] consolidation under section 1281.3 may be ordered even if it means ‘a party may be forced into a coordinated arbitration proceeding in a dispute with a party with whom he has no agreement, before an arbitrator he had no voice in selecting, and by a procedure he did not agree to.’ ”  (Gordon v. G.R.O.U.P., Inc. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 998, 1006.)  In any case, the Motions to Compel Arbitration are granted.  This action is stayed pending the resolution of arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)    Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 