 Case Number:  24STCV14354    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Demurrers by Defendants (1) Michael
R. Jones and Laura Survant & (2) Priya
Uppuluri and Eman G. Youssef
            Defendants Michael R. Jones and
Laura Survant jointly demur to plaintiff Payam Benyamini’s complaint.  Defendants Priya Uppuluri and Eman G. Youssef
also jointly demur to the complaint for the same reasons.
            Plaintiff did not oppose the
demurrers.  Plaintiff did, however, file
a first amended complaint on September 3, 2024, to add a cause of action under
the Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA). 
PAGA provides an exception to the general rules prohibiting plaintiffs
from amending a complaint fewer than nine court days before the hearing on a
demurrer.  (Lab. Code, § 2699.3, subd.
(a)(2)(C).)  The first amended complaint
has no substantive changes other than adding a new cause of action under PAGA.  For the sake of judicial economy, the court
will treat defendants’ demurrers as demurrers to the first amended
complaint.  
The
first amended complaint is fatally uncertain as to all four demurring
defendants.  A complaint is subject to a demurrer for uncertainty if it “is so incomprehensible
that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” 
(A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best
Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)  A complaint must sufficiently apprise
defendants of the claims against them.  (Ibid.)
The first amended complaint fails to apprise these
four defendants of the basis for any claims against them.  The first amended
complaint alleges 15 causes of action, each against “all defendants and Does 1
through 100.”  The first amended
complaint names as defendants one nonprofit corporation and six
individuals.  The pleading only mentions the
four demurring defendants by name twice. 
First, in the caption.  (FAC, p. 1.)  Second, it lists them all, along with the two
other individual defendants who have not demurred, followed by conclusory
allegations that they all “(1) exercised control over Plaintiff's wages, hours,
and/or working conditions; (2) caused Plaintiff to suffer or permit to work;
and/or (3) had an ‘at-will’ employment relationship with Plaintiff.”  (FAC, ¶ 2.) 
All remaining allegations that refer to the four demurring defendants do
so via the plural “defendants”—meaning one nonprofit corporation, six
individuals, and 100 Does.  
These vague allegations make it impossible for the
demurring defendants to understand what plaintiff alleges any of them did, if
anything.  They cannot reasonably respond
to the first amended complaint.  Plaintiff
does not even allege facts stating these defendants had any relationship with
the entity for which plaintiff worked.   
            Furthermore, several of plaintiff’s
causes of action are only available against employers—not individual supervisors
or agents of employers.  (Miklosy v. Regents of University
of California (2008)
44 Cal.4th 876, 901 [wrongful termination in violation of public policy]; Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1160 [FEHA]; Mewawalla
v. Middleman (N.D. Cal. 2022) 601 F.Supp.3d 574, 608 [whistleblower
retaliation].)  The first amended
complaint relies on the same uncertain allegations described above and on conclusory
alter ego allegations about all “defendants.” 
The first amended complaint does not allege sufficient facts to
constitute any cause of action against the four demurring defendants.
Disposition
            Defendants Michael R.
Jones and Laura Survant’s demurrer to the first amended complaint is sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend.              
Defendants
Priya Uppuluri and Eman G. Youssef’s demurrer to the first amended complaint is
sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
