 Case Number:  24NNCV02431    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerCarson Goring v. Masis KhodaverdianMoving Party: Defendant Masis KhodaverdianResponding Party: Plaintiff Carson GoringTentative Ruling: SUSTAINED WITH LEAVEBACKGROUND Plaintiff Carson Goring was a former tenant of a property owned by Defendant. (See Declaration of Christine D. Luong-Pham (“Luong-Pham Dec.”) ¿ 2.) On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant, case number 23BBCV01856, in the Los Angeles Superior Court. (See Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice (“Req. for Jud. Ntc.”) ¿ 1, Ex. A.) Plaintiff subsequently filed an Amended Complaint on September 18, 2023. (Id. at ¿ 2, Ex. B.) The Amended Complaint alleges general negligence, premises liability, and harassment violating Civil Code section 1940.2. (Id.) Plaintiff also alleged wage loss; loss of use of property; hospital and medical expenses; general damage; loss of earning capacity; loss of peace, severe and ongoing illness, and emotional damage. (Id.) Additionally, the Amended Complaint stated “30 counts of punishable harassment, trauma suffered, and loss of voucher amount due to inhabitability.” (Id.)MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint is precluded by res judicata and collateral estoppel. (Demurrer, p. 5.) Additionally, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint fails to meet the pleading requirements under the code of civil procedure. (Id. at 6.) OPPOSITION Plaintiff, represented pro per, asserts the previous complaint was dismissed due to Plaintiff’s unfamiliarity, as he was “unsure how to write a legal claim,” and “begs lenience with learning the law” given his personal circumstances, including homelessness. (Opposition, p. 1.) Plaintiff argues the instant action is a separate legal action from his prior case against Defendant, and that the instant case alleges distinct causes of action. Plaintiff asserts this action alleges ongoing fraud and seeks to recover for Plaintiff’s ongoing homelessness, effects of carbon monoxide poisoning, and emotional suffering from Defendant’s constant threats. (Opposition, p. 20.)REPLYDefendant argues Plaintiff admits the previous action was dismissed, and that Plaintiff should be barred from proceeding with the current complaint, as Plaintiff seeks to “do over” her prior lawsuit. (Reply, p. 2.) Defendant also asserts that Plaintiff’s opposition is unresponsive to the issues raised in the demurrer. (Id.)ANALYSIS I. Request for Judicial NoticeThe Court takes judicial notice of the following:• Plaintiff’s prior complaint against Defendant, case number 23BBCV01856. (Req. for Jud. Ntc., ¿ 1, Ex. A.)• Plaintiff’s September 18, 2023 amended complaint. (Id. at Ex. B.)• Defendant’s January 16, 2024 demurrer. (Id. at Ex. C.)• Court ruling sustaining Defendant's demurrer. (Id. at Ex. D.)• Court’s April 15, 2024 Order. (Id. at Ex. E.)• Court’s July 2, 2024 judgement. (Id. at Ex. F.)• July 11, 2024, Notice of Entry of Judgement. (Id. at Ex. G.)II. DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  Parties may also demur to causes of action individually.  In either case, the procedure is also called a ‘demurrer for sufficiency,’ and it tests the pleading by itself, alone and disconnected from extraneous matters.  (Hahn at p. 747.) Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e) permits the filing of a demurrer when a pleading “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” Additionally, when a party cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are being directed against it, a demurrer for uncertainty lies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)A. EstoppelThis is not the first case Plaintiff has brought against Defendant; this case is brought following the Burbank Court’s April 15, 2024 order dismissing Plaintiff’s case with prejudice after Plaintiff failed amend her previous complaint within the prescribed 20-day period. (Case No. 23BBCV01856, April 15 Minute Order.) The central issue in this case is whether Plaintiff’s present case against Defendant is estopped by Plaintiff’s prior first unsuccessful attempt to sue Defendant. The Court here declines to find that Plaintiff is estopped by the first action on the basis that the complaint in this case is insufficiently specific as to the causes of actions being alleged; as a result, the Court cannot meaningfully evaluate whether the causes of action in this complaint have already been adjudicated. The Court notes that the instant complaint here alleging a cause of action for fraud was not alleged in Plaintiff’s prior case against Defendant alleging harassment and “loss of voucher amount due to [un]inhabitability [sic].” (Req. for Jud. Ntc., Ex. B.) The instant case for fraud against Defendant may not necessarily arise from the same factual circumstances. While Plaintiff’s first case alleged harassment and uninhabitable conditions at Defendant’s property —  and thus concern the factual circumstances arising during Plaintiff’s tenancy — the instant complaint for fraud may concern Defendant’s conduct leading up to Plaintiff’s tenancy. Plaintiff here suggests the complaint arises from a breach of contract in which the “necessary elements to establish liability” include “duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (See Opposition, p. 22.) Liberally construing Plaintiff’s complaint’s allegations “with a view to substantial justice” (Code Civ. Proc. § 452), the Court cannot ascertain whether Plaintiff’s complaint might state a cause of action under a possible legal theory for fraud, nor whether Plaintiff’s cause of action relates to circumstances prior to or during the tenancy. Because Plaintiff’s cause of action here is impossible to discern, the Court cannot determine whether the complaint states a cause of action under a possible legal theory of liability. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) As a result of the vague nature of Plaintiff’s complaint, the Court declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer based on collateral estoppel.However, Plaintiff’s complaint here is nevertheless insufficient, because it fails to plead sufficient facts. Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e) permits the filing of a demurrer when a pleading “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” When a party cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are being directed against it, a demurrer for uncertainty lies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Here, Plaintiff’s complaint fails to meet the pleading requirements dictated by the Code of Civil Procedure. While Plaintiff does allege fraud against Defendant, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to notify Defendant of what actions or representations Defendant made that constitute fraud. Because the allegation of fraud is too vague, the Court finds Defendant’s demurrer should be sustained—and Plaintiff afforded an opportunity to amend the complaint to provide specific allegations regarding the cause of action in this case. Based on Plaintiff’s additional allegations, the Court, in turn, can revisit the issue of whether Plaintiff is estopped. RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend the complaint.