 Case Number:  24NNCV03292    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerTerri Milner, et al. v. Los Angeles Unified School DistrictMoving Party: Defendant Los Angeles Unified School DistrictResponding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: SUSTAINED WITH LEAVEBACKGROUND Plaintiff Terri Milner attempts to bring this lawsuit for two incidents involving her daughter, minor Taya Lynn Jones, but Terri Milner does not have a license to practice law. (See Demurrer, Exhibit A.) MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues the complaint is subject to demurrer and barred because Plaintiff Terri Milner, who is pro se on behalf of minor Taya Lynn Jones, is not an attorney, and prosecuting this case on her daughter’s behalf would constitute unauthorized practice of law. (Demurrer, p. 3.) Defendant also argues the causes of action are time-barred and lacks any statutory authority for liability. (Id. at 7-8.)OPPOSITION No opposition has been filed.ANALYSIS I. DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  A demurrer is proper if “[t]he person who filed the pleading does not have the legal capacity to sue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(b).)Terri Milner brings this lawsuit “Pro Se” and on behalf of Taya Lynn Jones, her daughter. In doing so, Terri Milner is engaging in the unauthorized practice of law, as she is attempting to represent her minor daughter as her attorney. Terri Milner lacks the legal capacity to sue on her daughter’s behalf; the complaint is barred for that reason. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(b).) In J.W. v. Superior Court ((1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 958, 967) the court held that a non-attorney appointed as a guardian ad litem for a minor cannot act “in pro per” as doing so would constitute the unauthorized practice of law. The court stated: “We hold that ... a nonattorney mother cannot represent her minor son as guardian ad litem in propria persona, even though she cannot afford counsel and her son is a necessary party to the proceeding.” (Id. at 961-962.) We reach this conclusion here. Plaintiff is a nonattorney who is attempting to represent another person in court proceedings — violating the prohibition against unauthorized practice of law, as she may not function as her attorney. (Id. at 961-962.) Defendant’s demurrer is appropriate on these grounds. (Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 6125, 6126; Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) Because there is no attorney representing minor Taya Lynn Jones, the Court declines to consider the merits of Defendant’s other arguments to sustain Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend. The complaint is best addressed and considered on the merits after Plaintiff appoints a guardian ad litem on behalf of her daughter and the minor is represented by counsel.  RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 