 Case Number:  21STCV37991    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel Further ResponsesZenya Dennis v. Adam and Lilith, Business Entity UnknownMoving Party: Defendant Green Cosmos Inc.Responding Party: Plaintiff Zenya DennisTentative Ruling: GRANTEDBACKGROUNDThis is a premises liability dispute in which Plaintiff allegedly went into a store intending to purchase an item and was stabbed by Defendant’s employee. (Complaint, p. 4.)On August 7, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff a first set of Form Interrogatories and first and second set of Special Interrogatories via email. On October 1, 2024, Plaintiff served responses to the first set of Form Interrogatories, the first set of Special Interrogatories and the second set of Special Interrogatories. On October 28, 2024, Defendant sent Plaintiff an email seeking to meet and confer regarding Plaintiff’s perceived failure to fully respond to specific Form and Special Interrogatories — specifically Form Interrogatory No. 10.2 and Special Interrogatory No. 11 — and demanded full and complete responses. (See Motion to Compel Further, Exhibit A.) On November 12, 2024, Defendant emailed to follow up on the October 28th letter, and again requesting an extension for filing a motion to compel to further meet and confer on the issues. (See id., Exhibit B.) On November 15, 2024, Defendant called to meet and confer and/or seek an extension of the motion to compel filing deadline. As of the filing of this motion, Defendant has not received additional responses to its propounded Form Interrogatories and first set of Special Interrogatories, nor a response to Defendant’s meet and confer communications. MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues that ordering Plaintiff to provide further responses to its propounded Form Interrogatories and first set of Special Interrogatories is appropriate. (See Motion to Compel Further, p. 4.)Defendant also requests sanctions for the fees and costs of having to prepare, file and attend the hearing for this motion in the amount of $1,480. (Id. at 5.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues Defendant did not meet and confer in good faith. (Opposition, p. 3.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues the propounded responses to Defendant’s Interrogatories was sufficient. (Id. at 4.) Plaintiff further asserts Defendant’s misconduct should lead to sanctions. (Id. at 6.)REPLYNo reply has been filed.ANALYSISI. Motion to Compel Further ResponsesWhere a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290; 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) The propounding party may file motions to compel further responses to requests for production if it believes the responses received are (1) evasive, (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are meritless or overly general. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(a).) In response to a motion to compel further responses, the respondent bears the burden of justifying any objections. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) A. Meet and ConferCode of Civil Procedure § 2030.300 requires that prior to filing a motion to compel the moving party must follow the meet and confer requirements of CCP § 2016.040. “The Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each issue.” (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) This means that the parties must attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate. (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294.) The purpose of the meet and confer requirement is to bridge the gap between the parties – to force lawyers to reexamine their positions, and to narrow their discovery disputes to the irreducible minimum, before calling upon the court to resolve the matter. (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.)In this case, the Court finds Defendant has made sufficient good faith efforts to meet and confer prior to raising the instant motion. On October 28, 2024, Defendant sent Plaintiff an email seeking to meet and confer regarding Plaintiff’s perceived failure to fully respond to specific Form and Special Interrogatories and demanded full and complete responses. (See Motion to Compel Further, Exhibit A.) Defendant emailed once again on November 12, 2024 raising these concerns. (See id., Exhibit B.) Finally, Defendant called to meet and confer on November 15, 2024. However, these attempts by Defendant to meet and confer were unavailing, and reflect Defendant’s attempts to informally resolve the instant discovery dispute prior to seeking the Court’s intervention. On this record, the Court finds Defendant “made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution” to the discovery disputes at issue here.  (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) The Court therefore concludes the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied, and considers the motion on the merits.B. Good CauseA “party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2031.010. For the purposes of discovery, information is “relevant to the subject matter” if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof. (Gonzalez v. Super. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546; Lipton v. Super. Ct. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611.) Admissibility does not control the scope of discovery. (Id.) Instead, the “scope of discovery extends to any information that reasonably might lead to other evidence that would be admissible at trial.” (Id. at 1612.) Any doubts as to relevance should be resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Colonial Life & Acc. Ins. Co. v. Super. Ct. (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790.) Objections based on relevancy and materiality to the issues of the case “cannot be used to deny discovery.” (Coy v. Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 217.) Form Interrogatory No. 10.2 seeks all physical, mental, and emotional disabilities Plaintiff had immediately prior to the incident. Plaintiff’s response expressed that Plaintiff “experienced emotional injury but not more than any other person that was assaulted and stabbed and almost died would experience.” Defendant argues that, because Plaintiff is seeking to recover for emotional injury or distress as a result of the incident, Defendant is entitled to discovery on information about her mental and emotional state prior to the incident. (Motion to Compel Further, Exhibit A.) The Court here agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff’s physical, mental, and emotional health is at issue. While Plaintiff claims not to seek damages “more than any other person that was assaulted and stabbed and almost died would experience,” the nature of Plaintiff’s alleged assault and near-death injury inherently alleges damages beyond that of a garden variety emotional or physical injury. (See, generally, Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833 and Doyle v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878.) Defendant is accordingly entitled to discovery on this issue.Special Interrogatory No. 11 seeks all health care providers who has treated Plaintiff during the past 10 years, including the dates and type of treatment received. Plaintiff objected on the bases of relevance and invasion of privacy. Defendant asserts that “[e]ven if… [Plaintiff’s] emotional injury is ‘not more than any other person that was assaulted and stabbed and almost died would experience,’” Defendant is still entitled to medical records of her past treatment relating to emotional injuries. (Motion to Compel Further, Exhibit A.) The Court agrees in part.  Defendant requests Plaintiff’s ten-year medical history - a vast amount of information about Plaintiff’s medical conditions that likely no relation to the injury sued upon. Such a broad request lies beyond the scope of discovery. While the right to privacy is not absolute, (Palay v. Superior Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 919, 933) Plaintiff is entitled to retain the confidentiality of unrelated medical treatment. (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864.)  Accordingly, The Court grants the motion as to Special Interrogatory No. 11, but limits the scope to the five year period prior to the injury to the current date.  Accordingly, the Court finds Defendant has established good cause with respect to Request No. 10.2 for physical, mental, and emotional disabilities Plaintiff had immediately prior to the incident. This information directly pertains and is relevant to evaluating Plaintiff’s damages as a result of the alleged attack and injuries, which go beyond the garden variety. The Court finds Defendant’s Special Interrogatory No. 11 is overbroad and therefore grants the motion but limits the period to five years before the incident to the current date.  II. SanctionsThe court shall impose a monetary sanction against the losing party on the motion to compel unless it finds that party acted “with substantial justification” or other circumstances render sanctions “unjust.” CCP §2030.290(c). The Court here declines to grant sanctions against either party. While the Court concludes it is appropriate to grant Defendant’s motion to compel further responses,  Plaintiff here had substantial justification to object to Defendant’s motion. Namely, the privacy interests at stake in this case, and the validity of Plaintiff’s objection to the overreaching elements of Defendant’s discovery requests reflect Plaintiff was substantially justified to object, despite being required to produce further responses. The Court is therefore inclined not to grant sanctions in this case, as doing so would be unjust.RULINGDefendant’s motion to compel further is GRANTED as to Form Interrogatory No. 10.2 and Defendant’s motion to compel further is GRANTED as to Special Interrogatory No. 11 but limits the period to five years before the incident to the current date.  Supplemental responses to be served within 30 days.  Defendant and Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions are DENIED. 