  Case Number:  21STCV23135    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  T Demurrer and Motion to StrikeRogelio Cerna v. George Warthan, et al.Case No. 21STCV23135Moving Party: Defendants George Allen Warthan; Allen Warthan; Horizontal Grading & Paving; And Horizontal PavingResponding Party: Plaintiff Rogelio CernaTentative Ruling: SUSTAINED/GRANTEDBACKGROUND This is a three-vehicle collision case arising from a July 18, 2019 accident. Plaintiff alleges causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; (2) Negligence per se; and (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress and Further Physical Damage, violation of Vehicle Code § 20001 (Hit and Run) against the named Defendants. (Opposition Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 1.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendants argue Plaintiff's exemplary damage claim in the First-Amended Complaint (“FAC”) fails as a matter of law. (Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 3.) Defendants also argue the complaint fails to set forth facts to constitute a cause of action, specifically with respect to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is for intentional tort. (Demurrer, p. 5.) OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues sufficient facts have been alleged to support punitive damages. (Opposition Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 3.) Plaintiff additionally argues he alleged facts sufficient to support the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Opposition, p. 8.)ANALYSIS I. Demurrer and Motion to StrikeA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to support the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress against the corporate entities.  Plaintiff fails to allege that any of the individual drivers were employed by or were agents of the corporate entity defendants or that they were acting within the scope of that employment or agency.  (Perez v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc. (1986) 41 Cal.3d 962, 967.)  Plaintiff also fails to allege that the corporate entity defendants knew or should have known that their employees/agents were unfit or were likely to engage in the intentional torts alleged herein.  (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836.)  As such, the demurrer is sustained as to the corporate entity defendants.California law generally allows plaintiffs to plead inconsistent causes of action in separate counts when the exact nature of the facts or the legal rights are in doubt. (Batta v. Hunt (2024) 106 Cal.App.5th 295.) This practice accommodates uncertainties about what actually occurred or what can be established by the evidence. (Id.) However, there are limitations. A plaintiff may not avoid a demurrer by pleading facts or positions in an amended complaint that contradict the facts pleaded in the original complaint or by suppressing facts that prove the pleaded facts false (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857; McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457.) “Under the sham pleading doctrine, allegations in an original pleading that rendered it vulnerable to demurrer or other attack cannot simply be omitted without explanation.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 751.) “The purpose of the doctrine is to enable the courts to prevent an abuse of process.” (Id.) “The doctrine is not intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting erroneous allegations or to prevent the correction of ambiguous facts.” (Id.)The Court finds the allegations in the FAC to be sufficiently contradictory to require sustaining the demurrer to the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  This finding relies, in part, on the allegations in Plaintiff’s original complaint and the FAC which both allege that defendant failed “to immediately stop his vehicle” and that it “was evident that defendant had no intention of stopping and identifying himself.”  [Complaint and FAC, Para. 20.]  However, while the Complaint originally alleged that “[a]fter the crash, Defendants failed to stop at the location” [Complaint, Para. 21], the FAC now alleges that “[a]fter the crash, Defendants stopped at the location” and “Defendant realized plaintiff was injured and needed medical assistance and despite same, defendant, got back in his car and drove away from scene [sic].”  [FAC, Para. 21]Plaintiff’s FAC is clearly internally inconsistent, for Defendant can’t both have failed to stop and stopped.  Additionally, the allegations in the FAC directly conflict with the allegations in the Complaint.  Further, it appears that Plaintiff is now alleging physical injuries from following the hit-and-run driver in an attempt to conform his claims with the prior ruling of this Court. [See the January 23, 2024 Minute Order discussing the need to plead “additional damages above and beyond the damages caused by the accident that precedes the hit and run.”]  Based on these inconsistencies and what appears to be a sham amendment designed solely to comport with this Court’s prior order, the Court sustains the demurrer as to all defendants.    Because this ruling eliminates the intentional tort on which punitive damages are alleged, the Court also grants the Motion to Strike the punitive damages claims.  RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is SUSTAINED.  Absent a declaration under penalty of perjury by Plaintiff’s counsel establishing a good faith belief that there is a factual basis for the amendments, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages is GRANTED.