  Case Number:  21STCV16717    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JORGE HERNANDEZ CAMACHO and SARA MARTINEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
TOYOTA MOTOR SALES U.S.A., INC., a California Corporation, and
  DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV18717
 Hearing Date:   3/11/24
 Trial Date:        10/15/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Toyota
  Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiffs’ Depositions and
  Request for Sanctions [CRS# 6045].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Jorge Hernandez Camacho
and Sara Martinez sue Defendants Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. (Toyota USA) and
Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a May 18, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation
of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. On February 16, 2019, Plaintiffs purchased a 2019 Toyota Corolla
(the Vehicle), pursuant to which Toyota USA and Plaintiffs entered express and
implied warranties. According to those warranties, Toyota USA would conform any
defects that arose in the Vehicle within the warranty period within a
reasonable number of attempts or instead repurchase or replace the Vehicle.
However, the Vehicle later manifested defects and nonconformities within the
applicable warranty period, which Toyota USA was unable to repair or conform to
warranty after a reasonable number of attempts, with Toyota USA also refusing
to repurchase or replace the Vehicle.
B. Motion Before the Court
On February 13, 2024, Toyota USA
filed a motion to compel the Plaintiffs’ deposition and for sanctions against
Plaintiffs and/or counsel.
On February 27, 2024. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition to Toyota USA’s motion.
On March 4, 2024, Toyota USA filed
a reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition.
Toyota USA’s motion is now before
the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Depositions and for Monetary
Sanctions
A. Motion to Compel Deposition:
GRANTED.
1. Legal
Standard
If, [1] after service of a
deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, [5] the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a) [Arabic numerals
added for clarity].)
The motion shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
The motion shall also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(2).)
2. Analysis
a. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a)
Here, Toyota USA attaches copies of
documents showing Toyota USA’s December 17, 2021, and October 31, 2023, service
of notices and amended notice of deposition on Plaintiffs. (Mot., Jo Decl., Exs.
A-B [Dec. 17, 2021 service], C-D [Oct. 31, 2023 service], E [Nov. 14, 2023
follow up].)
While Plaintiffs argue that they
did not fail to appear at the deposition because the deposition never went
forward, the Court disagrees and concludes that Plaintiffs, by objecting to the
deposition notices, de facto failed to appear or proceed with their noticed
depositions. (Opp’n, pp. 1-2.) There is certainly no evidence that despite
their objections, Plaintiffs appeared.
Moreover, while Plaintiffs argue
that their offer to submit to three deposition dates in April 2024 has mooted
Toyota USA’s motion, the Court disagrees. The offer was made on February 27,
2024, the same day the opposition to this motion was filed. No deposition has actually
taken place and defendant seeks a court order to ensure that it will take
place, as well as the payment of certain monetary sanctions. (Opp’n, p. 2.)
The only remaining question is
whether Plaintiffs raised valid objections to the deposition notices.
A review of the moving papers shows
a declaration from counsel stating that Plaintiffs objected to the initial
deposition notices and the amended deposition notices but failing to state what
those objections were or to attach the objections to the moving papers. (Mot.,
Jo Decl., ¶¶ 4, 7.) Neither does the opposition nor the reply attach or repeat those
objections verbatim. (Cf. Reply, p. 2 [“Plaintiffs served objections to both
TMS’ properly served notices of deposition for December 30, 2021[,] and
November 14, 2023. (Declaration of Stefanie G. Jo (‘Jo Decl.’), ¶ 2, Exhibits
A-B.)”].)
However, neither party disputes
Toyota USA’s position, thus the Court need not further discuss the objections. Plaintiffs
could have raised this in their opposition, but they instead limited their
discussion to procedural defects in whether they “failed to appear” and whether
this motion was mooted by their offer to submit to depositions in April 2024.
(Opp’n, pp. 1-2.)
The Court thus determines Toyota
USA has standing to move to compel the initial attendance of Plaintiffs at a
deposition.
b. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1)
The Court further determines that
good cause exists for production of the documents requested in the amended
deposition notices because these requests are within the scope of discovery.
This is because the requests are directed to discovery of documents on which
Plaintiffs are relying to establish liability against Toyota USA in this lemon
law action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
c. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2)
The Court finds that Toyota USA
sufficiently followed up regarding scheduling follow-up deposition dates for
Plaintiffs. (Mot., Jo Decl., Exs. A, C [emails showing service of deposition
notices and amended deposition notices], E [follow-up message sent after
service of the amended deposition notices].)
d. Compel
Deposition Conclusion
Because Toyota USA has met all
statutory requirements that must be met for the Court to compel a deposition of
Plaintiffs, Toyota USA’s motion is GRANTED as to this relief.
B. Monetary Sanctions: GRANTED.
1. Legal
Standard
If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
The court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
2. Analysis
Here, the Court determines that sanctions
are merited based on Plaintiffs’ refusal to submit to an authorized method of
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)
While Plaintiffs argue that it
would be unjust to impose monetary sanctions on them where there has been no
showing of bad faith and Plaintiffs have proposed deposition dates, i.e., the
three April 2024 deposition dates (Opp’n, p. 2), the opposition itself
recognizes by proposing those dates that Plaintiffs should submit to
depositions related to this action. Moreover, Plaintiffs fails to offer a
proper explanation for their two-year delay in agreeing to submit to
depositions, which they did for the first time on February 27, 2024, i.e., the
date on which Plaintiffs filed their opposition, well after service of the
deposition notices and amended deposition notices on December 17, 2021, and
October 31, 2023. (Reply, Jo Decl., ¶ 6; Mot., Jo Decl., Exs. A-B, Proof of
Service.) Prior to this, as of the time Toyota USA filed its motion on February
13, 2024, Plaintiffs had failed to respond to the deposition notices and
amended deposition notices. (Reply, Jo Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
The Court also determines that
sanctions are appropriate in the requested amount of $1,750 because this figure
comprises a reasonable fee for the time spent in relation to this motion.
(Mot., Jo Decl., ¶ 10.)
Last, the Court determines that sanctions
are appropriate as to Plaintiffs and counsel, Knight Law Group, LLP, Roger
Kirnos (SBN 283163), and Angelica Zamudio (SBN 351803).
Sanctions are thus GRANTED in the
amount of $1,750 jointly and severally against Plaintiffs and counsel stated
above. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Toyota Motor Sales
U.S.A., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiffs’ Depositions and Request for
Sanctions [CRS# 6045] is GRANTED.
A. Depositions of Plaintiffs
Plaintiffs Jorge Hernandez Camacho
and Sara Martinez are ORDERED to appear at depositions within 21 days of this
order.
Plaintiffs Jorge Hernandez Camacho
and Sara Martinez and Defendant Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. are ORDERED to
meet and confer regarding mutually agreeable deposition dates.
B. Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiffs Jorge Hernandez Camacho
and Sara Martinez and counsel, Knight Law Group, LLP, Roger Kirnos (SBN
283163), and Angelica Zamudio (SBN 351803), are ORDERED, jointly and severally,
to remit payment of $1,750 to Defendant Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. within 30
days of this ruling.