 Case Number:  23STCV04491    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40

 



HAYES B. HURWITZ, an individual, and ANDREW KYRIAKATOS, aka ANDREW
  KATOS, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
PATRICK W. DANIELS, an individual, SCOTT SINNETT, an individual,
  AARON GREENE, an individual, MARK GREENE, an individual, MICHELLE GREENE
  JOHNSON, an individual, GREENE BROTHERS FARM, INC., a California corporation,
  GREENE BROS, INC., a California corporation, LOCKEFORD HOLDINGS, INC., a California
  corporation, LOCKEFORD HOLDINGS WATER DISTRICT, LLC, a California limited
  liability company, and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV04491
 Hearing Date:   3/11/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Patrick
  W. Daniels, Scott Sinnett, Aaron Greene, Mark Greene, Michelle Greene
  Johnson, Greene Brothers Farm, Inc., Greene Bros, Inc., Lockeford Holdings,
  Inc., and Lockeford Holdings Water District, LLC’s Demurrer to Second Amended
  Complaint; and
Defendants Patrick
  W. Daniels, Scott Sinnett, Aaron Greene, Mark Greene, Michelle Greene
  Johnson, Greene Brothers Farm, Inc., Greene Bros, Inc., Lockeford Holdings,
  Inc., and Lockeford Holdings Water District, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions
  of the Second Amended Complaint.



 
I. Background
Plaintiffs
Hayes B. Hurwitz and Andrew Kyriakatos (Katos) sue Defendants Patrick W. Daniels, Scott Sinnett, Aaron Greene, Mark Greene,
Michelle Greene Johnson, Greene Brothers Farm, Inc. (GB Farm), Greene Bros,
Inc. (Greene Bros), Lockeford Holdings, Inc. (Lockeford Holdings), Lockeford
Holdings Water District, LLC (Lockeford Water), and Does 1 through 50 pursuant
to an October 16, 2023, Second Amended Complaint (SAC).
The
Court notes that it uses the individual parties’ first names for ease of
reference based on most Defendants’ shared surnames. No disrespect is intended.
The
SAC alleges:
(1)
Breach of Oral Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Contract, (3) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, (4) Constructive Fraud, (7) Violations of Bus. & Prof. Code
§ 17200, et seq., (8) Quantum Meruit, and (9) Declaratory Relief against all
Defendants;
(5)
Breach of Written Contract by Plaintiff Katos against Greene Bros, Aaron, Mark,
Michelle, and Does 1 through 25;
(6)
Intentional Interference with Contract by Plaintiff Katos against Defendants
Daniels, Sinnett, and Does 26 through 50; and
(10)
Accounting against Defendants Lockeford Holdings, GB Farms, and Lockeford
Water.
The
allegations are premised on Defendants’ breach of one or both of two contracts
or events related to those breaches: (1) breach of an oral joint venture
agreement entered for the purpose of pursuing new lawful cannabis cultivation proceedings,
manufacturing, and distribution opportunities entered between Plaintiff Katos
and Green Bros, which was subsequently entered into by the remaining Defendants
and Plaintiff Hurwitz; and (2) a Non-Circumvention and Non-Disclosure (NCND)
Agreement between Plaintiff Katos (entered though his dba The Renaissance
Company (Renaissance Co.)) and Defendant Greene Bros, which was subsequently
entered into by Defendants Aaron and Mark Greene and Michelle Greene, who used
Greene Bros as their alter ego.
B.
Motions Before the Court
On
November 9, 2023, Defendants filed a demurrer to the SAC. 
That
same day, Defendants filed a motion to strike various portions of the SAC.
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions to Defendants’ demurrer and
motion to strike.
On
March 4, 2024, Defendants filed replies to Plaintiffs’ oppositions.
Defendants’
demurrer and motion to strike are now before the Court.
 
II. Request for
Judicial Notice
Per
Defendants’ request, the Court takes judicial notice of (1) Plaintiffs’
opposition to Defendants’ demurrer to the initial Complaint and (2) a PDF
printout of the search results for a Fictitious Business Name Search for “The
Renaissance Company” as of October 7, 2023. (Demurrer, RJN, Exs. 1-2; Evid.
Code, §§ 452, subds. (c), (d), (h), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
 

III. Demurrer
A. Legal Standard
1. Sufficiency
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently
allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that
is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded.
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)
35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey
Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447 (Holland),
superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
2. Uncertainty
A demurrer to a pleading lies where
the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10, subd. (f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, disapproved on other
grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business practices need not be pled
specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].) As a result, a special
demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate
sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing
in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149
Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v. J.E.
French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations question].)
Where a complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to apprise
defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a special
demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.; see also Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“A special demurrer [for uncertainty] should be
overruled where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to
apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet”].)
B. Discussion
Defendants challenge the first to
tenth causes of action based on lack of sufficiency in pleading and uncertainty
in pleading grounds. (Demurrer, Notice, pp. 2-10.)
1.     Demurrer,
SAC, First to Tenth Causes of Action: SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
Based on uncertainty in pleading as
to the ascertainability of the type of contract from which Plaintiffs’ claims arise,
the Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer.
The parties’ other arguments are
thus not further discussed.
a. Plaintiff Katos
The SAC alleges two grounds for Plaintiffs’
action against Defendants: (1) an alleged oral joint venture agreement
(Cannabis Concept); and (2) the subsequent NCND. (See SAC, ¶¶ 167-172 [breach
of joint venture agreement based on oral agreement], 173-179 [breach of joint
venture agreement based on implied agreement, in the alternative], 180-188 [breach
of fiduciary duties in relation to joint venture agreement], 189-199 [constructive
fraud related to the joint venture agreement], 200-209 [breach of written
contract, the NCND, relating to Plaintiff Katos only], 210-216 [intentional interference
with contract, the NCND, as to Plaintiff Katos, and Defendants Daniels,
Sinnett, and Does 26 through 50 only], 217-219 [wrongful business conduct based
on breach of fiduciary duties and constructive fraud claims arising from the
joint venture agreement and intentional interference with the NCND], 220-224 [quantum
meruit based on work performed related to the joint venture agreement and
NCND], 225-234 [seeking declaration of rights of Plaintiffs in joint venture
agreement], 235-238 [accounting of books related to joint venture agreement.)
All these claims involve Plaintiff
Katos. (See SAC, ¶¶ 167-238.)
The SAC alleges the NCND and joint
venture agreement as different contracts as follows: “The NCND Agreement
encompasses the narrow topics of confidentiality, fees for introductions, and
KATOS’s role as an intermediary” and “does not address, prevent, prohibit,
forestall, confine, preclude, proscribe, forbid, bar, limit, supersede, or take
the place of the [preceding] joint venture agreement,” which instead “was a
joint venture in operating a lawful cannabis cultivation, processing,
manufacturing, and distribution of cannabis and cannabis products business
between GREENE BROS and Plaintiff KATOS, with the anticipation and expectation
that KATOS would seek other individuals, entities, or parties to be additional
co-venturers, as well as locating, investigating, and aid in acquiring real
property to grow, cultivate, manufacture, and distribute lawful cannabis and
cannabis products” (SAC, ¶¶ 37-38, 41.)
However, a review of the NCND shows
that the NCND is much broader than asserted by the SAC, as its terms contemplate
that Renaissance Co.—under Plaintiff Katos—would “have the non-exclusive right
to seek out financial institutions, growth capital firms, debt lenders, equity
investors/funds and other types of business development opportunities and to
introduce such parties and business development opportunities to [Greene Bros]”
in exchange for a fee set out in a Fee Agreement not attached to the SAC. ((SAC,
Ex. 1, p. 1, §§ 2-3.) And the NCND contemplates Renaissance Co. as a dba, which
is “merely descriptive of the person or corporation who does business under
some other name.” (SAC, Ex. 1, p. 1, Introduction; People v. Eastburn
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1501, 1505-1506 (Eastburn), citation omitted.)
Thus, the NCND applies to Plaintiff Katos. And a review of the NCND shows that
it does not contemplate equity, partnership, or any type of ownership in a joint
venture with Defendants, either at the time of execution of pursuant to some
temporary fee structure to be set in place pending some condition precedent, e.g.,
equity distribution, but rather, contemplates payment to Plaintiff Katos for
sourcing business opportunities for Defendants. (SAC, Ex. 1, §§ 1-15.) And the
attached NCND supersedes the contradictory allegations at paragraphs 37 to 38
and 41 of the SAC, as well as similar allegations made elsewhere in the SAC. (Holland,
supra, 86 Cal.App.4th at p. 1447.)
The SAC thus creates confusion as
to the contract from which liability springs: an alleged joint venture
agreement for equity that is not supported by a written contract; or a
fee-for-services agreement that does not contemplate equity, which is in fact
attached to the SAC, supersedes allegations in the body of the SAC, and applies
to Plaintiff Katos based on Renaissance Co. being his dba. (Demurrer, p. 3
[argument to this effect].)
Moreover, it is unclear why the
joint venture agreement should be, as argued by Plaintiff, the umbrella
agreement here because even if the SAC’s body alleges that the NCND merely
sought to memorialize the joint venture project or some part of it, the NCND
shows that the parties only created a fee-for-services agreement. (SAC, Ex. 1,
§§ 2-3; see SAC, Ex. 1, §§ 1-15.)
While Plaintiff Katos argues that the
contracts are alleged in the alternative, the failure to allege facts from which
a defendant can ascertain the type of contract at issue—written, oral, or
implied—is a basis for demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g); Opp’n,
p. 2 [“Plaintiffs clarified the breach of oral contract and the breach of the
implied contract, pleading them in the alternative as to theories of liability
regarding the underlying agreement, i.e., the joint venture agreement”].)
A demurrer based on uncertainty is
thus proper against Plaintiff Katos’s claims given that the source of liability
(agreement) is unclear, circumstances which would have also supported a
demurrer based on the unascertainability of the type of contract at issue.
b. Plaintiff Hurwitz
As to Plaintiff Hurwitz, the SAC
expressly alleges: “Plaintiff Hurwitz … is not a party to the NCND agreement”
and that “Plaintiff Hurwitz … became involved in the [joint venture agreement]
in the Fall of 2020.” (SAC, ¶¶ 18, 34, fn. 1.) The terms of that agreement are
outlined in paragraph 34 of the SAC, as incorporated by paragraph 42 of the SAC,
and involve ownership in a joint cannabis venture based on sweat equity. (SAC,
¶¶ 34-35.) However, the SAC alleges that to memorialize the joint venture
agreement, the parties agreed to the NCND, which contemplates a
fee-for-services arrangement, not an equity agreement. (SAC, ¶ 36 & Ex. 1,
§§ 1-15.) The SAC is thus as uncertain as to Hurwitz as it is against Katos
because the nature of the agreement pursuant to which liability is alleged by
Plaintiff Hurwitz is unclear.
c. Demurrer
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is thus
SUSTAINED as to the SAC’s ten claims, with leave to amend as to permit amendment
clarifying these uncertainties.
 
IV. Motion to Strike: MOOT.
A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B. Discussion
Because the Court has sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to the entire SAC, the motion to strike is MOOT.
 
V. Conclusion
Defendants Patrick W. Daniels,
Scott Sinnett, Aaron Greene, Mark Greene, Michelle Greene Johnson, Greene
Brothers Farm, Inc., Greene Bros, Inc., Lockeford Holdings, Inc., and Lockeford
Holdings Water District, LLC’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
Defendants Patrick W. Daniels,
Scott Sinnett, Aaron Greene, Mark Greene, Michelle Greene Johnson, Greene
Brothers Farm, Inc., Greene Bros, Inc., Lockeford Holdings, Inc., and Lockeford
Holdings Water District, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended
Complaint is MOOT.