 Case Number:  21STCV33181    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV33181




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Supplemental Requests for Request for Production of Documents, Set Two 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Jorge Duran  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Jorge Duran (Defendant)
moves to compel Plaintiff Evelyn Espin’s (Plaintiff) response to Supplemental
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two. Defendant also seeks monetary
sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Demand
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Supplemental
Demand for Production
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.050 provides:
 
“(b) A party may propound a supplemental demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling twice before the initial setting of a trial date,
and, subject to the time limits on discovery proceedings and motions provided
in Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting
of a trial date.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.050(b).)
             
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on July 24, 2023, he served Plaintiff with
Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set Two. (Woods Decl. ¶ 7,
Exh. A.) Responses were due August 28, 2023. Since then, no responses have been
served. (Id. ¶ 8-9.) Since no responses have been served, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $765, representing a
$235 hourly rate and the $60 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are
warranted but the amount requested is excessive given that no opposition was
filed, and counsel can appear remotely at the hearing. Accordingly, the Court
awards monetary sanctions in the amount of $412.50 (1.5 hours attorney time,
plus the $60 filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel
Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set Two. Plaintiff Evelyn
Espin shall serve
verified responses, without objections, within 10 days.
 
            Additionally, the Court further grants Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $412.50.
Plaintiff Evelyn Espin shall pay $412.50 in monetary sanctions to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and
file a proof of service of such.