 Case Number:  22STCV34670    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV34670




MOTIONS:  


Terminate
  Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ross Dress for Less



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 31, 2022, Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley, in pro per
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Ross Dress for Less
(“Defendant”) for damages after allegedly hitting her head on a metal shelf at
Defendant’s store.  Defendant filed an
answer on December 12, 2022. 
 
Defendant propounded discovery in December 2022 and eventually brought
motions to deem admitted its Request for Admissions, Set One and to compel
responses to Request for Production, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One,
and Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
On November 20, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motion
to deem admitted because Plaintiff failed to verify her responses. The Court also
imposed a $60 monetary sanction against Plaintiff. Notice of the order was
served via mail to Plaintiff on November 20, 2023. 
 
On January 3, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motion to
compel discovery responses and imposed a $1,192.50 monetary sanction against
Plaintiff. Notice of the order was served via mail to Plaintiff on January 16,
2024. 
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to terminate
the imposition of these sanctions.  Defendant
opposes. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
First, a party who makes a motion must state the law that allows the
relief they are requesting. Here, Plaintiff cited rules from the California
Rules of Professional Conduct which do not apply to relieving sanctions.  
 
Second, Plaintiff discusses issues which appear unrelated to the
imposition of sanctions in this case. Plaintiff’s motion, which is a signed
declaration, states she is having trouble getting copies of the following: (1)
medical records that Defendant subpoenaed, (2) a transcript of her deposition,
and (3) a surveillance video that Defendant agreed to produce in a discovery
response. (Motion ¶ 14, Exh. C.) In opposition to this, Defendant points out
that Plaintiff must pay the costs for copying the deposition transcript and
medical records that were subpoenaed. Defendant asserts that it provided
Plaintiff with the contact information of its discovery provider who subpoenaed
the records. (Opp., 4.) As for the surveillance video, Defendant notes that
Plaintiff has not signed the Stipulation and Order regarding Confidentiality.
Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production., Set One, number 17
conditions the production of the video once Plaintiff signs the stipulation. (Pl.
Exh. C.) 
 
Turning to the issue of sanctions, Plaintiff did not set forth a clear
legal basis for relief. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, “(a) When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were
made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be
shown.” “No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a
previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according
to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(e).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff brought this motion more than ten days after service of the orders on
November 20, 2023 and January 3, 2024. Therefore, the Court may not reconsider
the sanctions under section 1008. 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), “The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six
months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” A
mistake is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a
party failed to make a timely response.¿ Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.¿ (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)¿The party
seeking relief based on excusable neglect has the burden of establishing it by
the preponderance of the evidence. (Bonzer v. City of
Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1478.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff submits her verification signed February 5, 2024, for Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Admissions.
This was served on Defendant. Plaintiff did not provide proof of a verification
for Defendant’s Request for Production, Set One. In her motion, Plaintiff
argues she did not appear at the hearing because she “was never properly served
by the Court and/or Defendant.” (Motion ¶ 16.) She states that on November 20,
2023, she was attending to an urgent family matter and was out of the State.
(Motion ¶ 17-19.) In favor of relief, Plaintiff argues that her “[c]ause has
been severely crippled by the heavy fines and penalties that have been added to
her file.” She argues that this “heavy burden” will “unjustly deter [her] right
to the pursuit of Justice.” (Id. ¶ 19.)  
 
In
response to Plaintiff’s argument that she did not receive notice of the
motions, Defendant offers Plaintiff’s August 14, 2023 deposition testimony
where she referred to the discovery motions which Defendant served in March
2023. (Saacke Decl. ¶ 11, Exh. C, Pl. Depo., 36:2-3; 63:25-64:1; 113:
4-6.) Additionally, according to the proofs of service, each of Defendant’s discovery
motions were served on Plaintiff by mail. A declaration of service by mail
based on a business practice (as opposed to personal knowledge) raises a
rebuttable presumption that notice was received.[1] (See
Bonzer v. City of Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1478-79.) Though
Plaintiff declares she did not receive notice of the hearings, Defendant’s
evidence that Plaintiff was aware of the motions on her August 14, 2023
deposition is persuasive. Plaintiff sets forth no additional evidence other
than her declaration. Also, her assertion that she did not appear at the
November 20, 2023 hearing due to an urgent family matter does not explain why
she did not file an opposition to the motion before either hearing.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not set forth enough evidence to show that she
did not receive actual notice of the motions. (See Bonzer, supra,
20 Cal.App.4th at 1480-81 [finding no actual notice despite proof of
service declaration where party challenging notice set forth six declarations
which were neither impeached nor contradicted].) Here, Plaintiff’s declaration
that she did not receive notice is contradicted by deposition testimony where
she discusses the discovery motions, and the need for verified responses. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to terminate sanctions is denied.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 


