 Case Number:  23STCV28588    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL A. FOSTER
  
        
  vs.
 
WEN XIE, et al.   

 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV28588    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 7, 2024




 
 
Foster’s
motion for an order to deposit stock certificates with the Clerk of the Court
is GRANTED. Foster is awarded $13,570.17 in attorney fees and costs from
claimants, jointly and severally.
 
On 11/21/2023,
Plaintiff Michael A. Foster filed a complaint in interpleader against Wen Xie,
Ravinder S. Grewal, Happy Day, Inc dba Baker Travel Plaza., and Glenwind
Enterprises. 
 
On 1/30/2024,
Michael A. Foster moved for an order to deposit stock certificates with the
Court. Foster also seeks attorney fees and costs totaling $13,570.17. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            Foster
seeks to deposit stock certificates which are in his possession, and which are
the subject of a dispute over ownership. That ownership dispute is the subject
of Case No. 23STCV12560 (Xie
Action), filed by Xie against the co-Defendants in this action.  
            
Discussion 
 
            Foster
seeks an order to deposit stock certificates with the Court on the grounds
that: 
 
1.     
Stakeholder has no interest in the
Stock Certificates and is merely a stakeholder with respect to the Stock
Certificates.
 
2.     
Conflicting demands have been asserted
against Stakeholder concerning entitlement to the Stock Certificates by the
claimants as set forth in the Declaration of Stakeholder Michael A. Foster.
 
3.     
The claimants mentioned in the
Declaration of Stakeholder Michael A. Foster have asserted conflicting demands
on Stakeholder. Stakeholder cannot determine with certainty which, if any,
demand is valid.
 
In
opposition, Xie indicated that he did not oppose Foster’s motion as to the
delivery of the stock certificates to the Court. 
 
However, Xie
opposes the request for attorney fees, arguing that he is the prevailing party,
and any costs or fees in connection with this Complaint and/or motion, should
be against Foster’s co-Defendants alone. 
 
After review,
the Court disagrees with Xie. 
 
First, as
noted by Foster in reply, the Xie Action was brought a week after Foster filed this
interpleader action. As such, despite Foster having already sought to deposit
the certificates with the Court, Xie asserted claims for constructive trust and
declaratory relief, seeking the same relief as that sought in this action,
aware that Stakeholder had already filed this interpleader action. The Court
agrees that “[t]he Court should not consider as a prevailing party, a defendant
that brings a subsequent action simply mirroring the relief requested in a
prior action asserted against him.” (Reply, 2: 24-25.) 
 
Moreover,
Foster’s request is based on CCP section 386, subdivision (f), which states,
“[a]fter any such complaint or cross-complaint in interpleader has been filed,
the court in which it is filed may enter its order restraining all parties to
the action from instituting or further prosecuting any other proceeding in any
court in this state affecting the rights and obligations as between the parties
to the interpleader until further order of the court.” As such, Xie cannot
frame his requested relief in the Xie Action as being obtained by way of this
Motion. Rather, if this Motion is granted, he will be affirmatively restrained
from otherwise proceeding against Foster in the Xie Action or any other action
concerning these issues.  
 
Thus, the
Court declines to find that Xie is the prevailing party. 
 
Second, CCP
section 386.6 provides: “[i]n ordering the discharge of such party, the court
may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and reasonable attorney fees
from the amount in dispute which has been deposited with the court.” (CCP §
386.6.) Nothing in the statute provides that such fees and costs can be
obtained from some claimants and not others, and, notably, Xie did not offer
any authority supporting his argument, which is a waiver of the issue. (Trinity
Risk Management, LLC v. Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 995, 1008 [the failure to support a point with reasoned argument
and citations to authority results in waiver].) 
 
Moreover,
while Xie argues that only Claimant Grewal should be liable for costs and fees
because he was the only party that objected to the delivery of the stock
certificates to Xie, the very fact of multiple parties claiming ownership of
the same property is precisely why this Interpleader was necessary in the first
place. There is also no evidence that Foster’s Interpleader was unnecessary or
was intentionally designed to incur fees and costs. Accordingly, the Court
agrees with Defendant that the fees and costs are appropriately placed on all
claimants, jointly and severally. 
 
Xie did not
object to or dispute the amount of attorney fees and costs incurred.
Accordingly, the Court considers this a concession on the merits to the amount.

 
Based on the
foregoing, Foster’s motion for an order to deposit stock certificates with the
Clerk of the Court is granted. Foster is awarded $13,570.17 in attorney fees
and costs from claimants, jointly and severally. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  March   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 