 On July 28, 2021, Plaintiff Jeremy Pfau filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Riko Wiemer International, LLC and Riko Wiemer (actually spelled “Weimer”) for (1) violation of Labor Code §§ 1182.12, 1194, 1197, 1197.1, and 1198 (Unpaid Wages); (2) violation of Labor Code §§ 226.7 and 1198 (Failure to Authorize and Permit Rest Periods); (3) violation of Labor Code § 2802 (Unreimbursed Business Expenses); (4) violation of Labor Code §§ 201-202 (Wages Not Timely Paid Upon Termination); (5) violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., (6) retaliation in violation of Labor Code § 1102.5; and (7) wrongful termination.  Plaintiff alleges he was a piano instructor for Defendants and that he was not paid for all hours worked, not paid for business expenses, and not given rest breaks.  Plaintiff alleges he was terminated for complaining about these issues.On June 9, 2022, Riko Weimer International, LLC and Riko Weimer filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Pfau for (1) breach of contract, (2) violation of the UCL, (3) constructive fraud, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) breach of the duty of loyalty, and (6) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Among other things, Cross-Complainants allege that Pfau improperly competed with their business; failed to give proper notice of his resignation; and failed to return his master key.Motions to CompelDefendant Riko Weimer International, LLC seeks to compel further responses to its requests for admission and form interrogatories from Plaintiff Jeremy Pfau. The Motions are denied without prejudice because Defendant failed to sufficiently meet and confer, only having sent a meet and confer letter the day before Plaintiff’s counsel was set to leave for holiday vacation.  Plaintiff’s counsel stated that he would meet and confer upon returning.  The Motions, however, were then filed without any further discussion.  Defendant merely states, “It is anticipated that meet and confer may resume at the end of the first week in January.”  This is not adequate or appropriate.  A substantive meet and confer effort is to take place before a discovery motion is filed.   Defendant, after having moved ex parte for authorization, filed a lengthy and confusing declaration that seeks to show that counsel did everything he could in furtherance of a meet and confer effort.  Respectfully, what’s clear is that Defendant filed the Motions without completing the meet and confer process because of the impending discovery and trial deadlines; counsel’s obligations to meet and confer are not abrogated because the end-of-year holidays would cause delay.  Counsel should have sought to continue the trial date to adequately complete discovery.   In any case, the trial date has been continued to July 22, 2024, such that counsel can complete discovery while actually complying with the meet and confer requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure.  Despite this and the fact that counsel saw the Court’s prior tentative that the denial is without prejudice, defense counsel has filed additional briefing to insist that the Court now hear procedurally deficient Motions anyway.   The Court will not award sanctions at this time.MSADefendants Riko Weimer International, LLC and Riko Weimer also seek summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s sixth and seventh causes of action for whistleblower retaliation and wrongful termination, as well as the accompanying request for punitive damages.  Defendants’ contention is that Plaintiff was never terminated.The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Lab. Code § 1102.5 retaliation requires that (1) the plaintiff establish a prima facie case of retaliation, (2) the defendant provide a legitimate, nonretaliatory explanation for its acts, and (3) the plaintiff show this explanation is merely a pretext for the retaliation.  (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High Sch. Dist. (2005)134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.)  For a prima facie case of retaliation, “plaintiff must show he engaged in protected activity, his employer subjected him to an adverse employment action, and there is a causal link between the two.”  (Hager v. Cnty. of Los Angeles (2014) 228 Cal. App. 4th 1538, 1540.)Lab. Code § 1102.6 provides, “In a civil action or administrative proceeding brought pursuant to Section 1102.5, once it has been demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5 was a contributing factor in the alleged prohibited action against the employee, the employer shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section 1102.5.”Defendants argue that they “never terminated Plaintiff. Upon learning that Plaintiff had filed a claim for unemployment benefits per Plaintiff’s statement in his Exhibit D, 11/10/2020 email to them, and upon receipt of Plaintiff’s outright rejection of the Company’s offer, Defendant’s appropriately determined that Plaintiff had voluntarily separated from his employment.”Plaintiff has shown triable issues as to an adverse employment action.  As Plaintiff puts it, “immediately after Mr. Pfau’s written complaint, he was not permitted to give lessons, was locked out of the email, calendaring, and internal intra-net system, his students informed that he would no longer be instructing them, was sent an email regarding where he would like he paycheck to be sent, was sent final pay check in the form of a hard copy check as opposed to a check through the payroll system, and was sent a letter entitled ‘Final Status Update’ informing him that the company’s attorney would send him a separation agreement, sent a email informing him that they would be deeming him to be resigned, and sent a cease and desist letter from RWI’s attorneys informing him that he was not permitted to contact students. (PSS 12-26).”  This is essentially a termination.  The Court will not entertain the argument that an employer can avoid liability by phrasing a termination as something else, like a suspension.  Defendants’ November 8, 2020, letter and the following events could very readily be interpreted as a termination by a reasonable juror.  The Complaint does not suffer from any pleading defect on this issue. Defendants next argue that there was a legitimate reason for any adverse action: “Plaintiff alleges only a temporal relation between his allegations of Labor Code violations and his free choice separation from employment. He is way ahead of himself in contending that Defendants ‘say’ he was terminated for poor performance. He admits he was under investigation for poor performance prior to his 11/01/2020 missive.”Defendants, however, have not established their legitimate reason for termination by clear and convincing evidence, and Plaintiff need not demonstrate pretext.  Plaintiff has already established triable issues by pointing to evidence showing that he was essentially terminated shortly after complaining of Labor Code violations.  Therefore, the Motion is denied as to the sixth and seventh causes of action.  Indeed, “section 1102.6, and not McDonnell Douglas, supplies the applicable framework for litigating and adjudicating section 1102.5 whistleblower claims.”  (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 712.)  “Section 1102.6 provides the governing framework for the presentation and evaluation of whistleblower retaliation claims brought under section 1102.5. First, it places the burden on the plaintiff to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested employment action. The plaintiff need not satisfy McDonnell Douglas in order to discharge this burden. Once the plaintiff has made the required showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected activity.”  (Id. at p. 718.)  Defendants also argue that punitive damages are improper because Plaintiff cannot show malice by clear and convincing evidence. Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).)The Court cannot say at this time that the evidence of malice, fraud, or oppression (Civ. Code § 3294), could not approach clear and convincing at trial (Basich v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1121.)  Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied.The Court considered sanctioning Defendants for their improper Reply brief, which was almost double the allowable length. Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 