

Hearing
Date:             March 27, 2024
Case
Name:                Rodriguez v. Netflix,
Inc. 
Case
No.:                    23STCV08993
Matter:                        Motion to File Documents
under Seal 
Moving
Party:             Defendant
Netflix, Inc.

Responding
Party:      None

Ruling:                       The Motion to File Under Seal
is denied.

 
This is a defamation action.
Plaintiff Francisco Ferreras Rodriguez (Plaintiff) sued Defendants Netflix,
Inc. (Netflix) and David M. Rosenthal (Rosenthal) (jointly, Defendants) for
their allegedly false depiction of Plaintiff in the film entitled, “No Limit”
(Film). 
 
            On November
21, 2023, Defendants filed a Special Motion to Strike the Complaint pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP Motion).
 
            Thereafter,
Plaintiff moved for leave to conduct discovery on Defendant’s Anti-SLAPP Motion.
The Court denied the motion.
 
            On March 7,
2024, Defendant Netflix filed a motion seeking an order sealing certain
documents that have been lodged conditionally under seal in support of Defendant
Netflix’s Reply in support of Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion, Plaintiff’s
Opposition to the Anti-SLAPP Motion, Specially
Appearing Defendant Versus Production SRL’s Reply in support of its Motion
to Quash, and Plaintiff’s Opposition to the Motion to Quash. No opposition was
filed. 
 
            The motion to file
under seal is denied. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
“A party requesting that a record be
filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the
record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (California
Rules of Court, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).)
 
The court must make express findings
to support sealing under California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550. Specifically,
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550, subdivision (d), provides:
 
“The court may order that a record
be filed under seal only if it expressly finds that: 
(1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record;
(3) A substantial probability exists
that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”  
 
            The party seeking to
seal a document bears the burden of proof. (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 894.) Specifically, “[a] party requesting that a
record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (CRC, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant Netflix
moves for a court order allowing it to file certain documents unredacted under seal. Defendant
argues that these motion papers and their supporting exhibits contain sensitive
information. 
 
            Specifically,
Defendant seeks to seal the following documents and exhibits:
 
1. The unredacted reply memorandum
of points and authorities in support of defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike
(Anti-SLAPP Reply); 
2. The
unredacted version of Exhibit 6 to the Declaration of Alexander Rufus-Isaacs in
support of plaintiff’s Anti-SLAPP Opposition (Anti-SLAPP Rufus-Isaacs
Declaration), titled the “License Agreement,” which comprises an agreement
between Netflix and Versus; 
3. The unredacted version of Exhibit 7 to the Anti-SLAPP
Rufus-Isaacs Declaration, titled “Amendment #2 to License Agreement,” which
comprises an amendment to the agreement between Netflix and Versus; 
4. The unredacted memorandum of
points and authorities in support of plaintiff’s Opposition to defendants’
Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP Opposition);
5. The unredacted reply memorandum
of points and authorities in support of Versus’ Motion to Quash (MTQ Reply); 
6.
The unredacted version of Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Alexander
Rufus-Isaacs in support of plaintiff’s Opposition to Versus’ Motion to Quash
(MTQ Rufus-Isaacs Declaration), titled the “License Agreement,” which comprises
an agreement between Netflix and Versus; 
7. The unredacted version of Exhibit 2 to the MTQ
Rufus-Isaacs Declaration, titled “Amendment #2 to License Agreement,” which
comprises an amendment to the agreement between Netflix and Versus; and
8. The unredacted memorandum of
points and authorities in support of plaintiff’s Opposition to Versus’ Motion
to Quash (MTQ Opposition).
 
By way of background, the California
Supreme Court has held that there is a First Amendment right of public access
to “ordinary civil trials and proceedings.” (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc.
v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1212.) As our high court has
explained, this constitutional right is a “qualified” one in the sense that the
proceedings “are ‘presumptively open’ ” and in order for them to be ordered
closed, the court must give advance notice of the potential closure and must
conduct a hearing and must make express findings supporting the closure order
and/or the sealing of court records. (Id. at p. 1217.)
 
Since NBC Subsidiary,
California Courts of Appeal have regularly employed a constitutional analysis
in resolving disputes over public access to court documents. (E.g., In re
Marriage of Nicholas (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1566, 1575 [holding sealing
orders implicate the public’s right of access under the First Amendment.]; Savaglio
v. Wal–Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 596 [explaining the public
has a First Amendment right to access civil litigation documents filed in court
and used at trial or submitted as basis for adjudication].)
 
Thus, under NBC Subsidiary, before
the presumption of openness established by the First Amendment may be overcome,
the trial court must hold a hearing and expressly find that (1) there is an
overriding interest supporting sealing of the records; (2) there is a
substantial probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent sealing;
(3) the sealing order is narrowly tailored to serve the overriding interest;
and (4) there is no less restrictive means of meeting that interest. (NBC,
supra, at pp. 1217–1218.) The Judicial Council codified the NBC
constitutional standards in rules 2.550 and 2.551—which are also known as “
‘the sealed records rules.’ ” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 486.)


Here, Defendant argues that the documents
it seeks to seal and/or redact contain information related to financial arrangements
and licensing fee structures. Specifically, Defendant contends that its License
Agreement and Amendment #2 to the License Agreement contains sensitive information
on Netflix’s licensing model. (LeMoine Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
The motion to seal is not well
taken. The purportedly confidential information in these documents is entirely
too vague to even specifically identify. Further, Defendant asserts, in a conclusory
manner, that disclosure of this vague information “would cause commercial and competitive
harm to Netflix.” (LeMoine Decl., ¶ 3.) However, Defendant provides no analysis or “specific
showing” that “serious injury” will occur absent a sealing order for the
exhibits. (McNair v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., supra, 234
Cal.App.4th at p. 35; Huffy Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 97, 106 abrogated on other grounds in Curtis v. Superior
Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 453, 471; CRC, rule 2.550(d)(3).)
 
Further, Defendant asserts the entirety of the Agreement
contains commercially sensitive information. However, a review of the exhibit demonstrates
many standard boilerplate provisions cannot possibly contain sensitive
information. Therefore, the motion to seal the following is denied:
 
2. The unredacted version of Exhibit
6 to the Declaration of Alexander Rufus-Isaacs in support of Plaintiff’s
Anti-SLAPP Opposition (Anti-SLAPP Rufus-Isaacs Declaration), titled the
“License Agreement,” which comprises an agreement between Netflix and Versus; 
3. The unredacted version of Exhibit
7 to the Anti-SLAPP Rufus-Isaacs Declaration, titled “Amendment #2 to License
Agreement,” which comprises an amendment to the agreement between Netflix and
Versus;
6. The unredacted version of Exhibit
1 to the Declaration of Alexander Rufus-Isaacs in support of Plaintiff’s
Opposition to Versus’ Motion to Quash (MTQ Rufus-Isaacs Declaration), titled
the “License Agreement,” which comprises an agreement between Netflix and
Versus; and
7. The unredacted version of Exhibit
2 to the MTQ Rufus-Isaacs Declaration, titled “Amendment #2 to License
Agreement,” which comprises an amendment to the agreement between Netflix and
Versus. 
 
Because the underlying exhibits do not warrant sealing, the targeted
redactions to portions of the oppositions and replies pertaining to the exhibits
are also unwarranted. Therefore, the motion to seal the following is denied:
 
1. The unredacted reply memorandum
of points and authorities in support of defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike
(Anti-SLAPP Reply). 
4. The unredacted memorandum of
points and authorities in support of plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendants’
Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP Opposition);
5. The unredacted reply memorandum
of points and authorities in support of Versus’ Motion to Quash (MTQ Reply);
and
8. The unredacted memorandum of
points and authorities in support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Versus’ Motion
to Quash (MTQ Opposition).
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to seal is denied in its entirety. Defendant Netflix, Specially Appearing Defendant Versus
Production SRL, and Plaintiff are ordered to file unredacted versions of these papers
and any supporting documentation electronically within 3 court days.