  Case Number:  23STCV06568    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:             March 27, 2024
Case Name:                Alvarado-Ortiz v. Architectural Surfaces, Inc.
Case No.:                    23STCV06568
Matter:                        Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             Category 3 Defendants Francini Inc., Caesarstone USA, Inc., and DAL-Tile
Distribution, LLC

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Oscar Alvarado Ortiz


Tentative Ruling:        The Demurrer by Category Three
Defendants to the fourth cause of action is overruled. The Motion to Strike
is granted with leave to amend regarding punitive damages. 

 
            This is a personal injury action
involving exposure to toxic silica, metals and other fibrogenic substances. Plaintiff Oscar Alvarado Ortiz
(Plaintiff) sued Defendant Architectural Surfaces Group, LLC
and 48 other defendants for injuries Plaintiff allegedly sustained while
working “in Los Angeles County, cutting, grinding, drilling, edging, and
polishing granite, marble, [and] other natural stone and artificial stone
countertops” from 2005 to 2009 and 2013 to 2022.
 
On
January 30, 2024, Category 2 Defendants Parsoda USA, Inc. dba Pacifica
Wholesale Tile and Stone; Lilly Industries, Inc. dba The Slab Studio; and
Architectural Surfaces Group, LLC demurred to the fourth cause of action of the
Complaint. Category 2 Defendants also filed a motion to strike portions of the
Complaint. Category 2 Defendant Elite Stone and Cabinet, Inc. filed a joinder
to the demurrer. Category 2 Defendant Parsoda USA, Inc. filed a one-page additional
briefing to the demurrer and motion to strike. Category 2 Defendant Lilly
Industries, Inc. dba The Slab Studio filed a joinder to the Category 2 Demurrer
and Motion to strike. Category 2 Defendant Surface Concepts & Slabs, Inc.
also filed an additional joinder. Category 2 Defendant Marbolis, Inc. also
filed a joinder to the Category 2 demurrer and additionally demurred to first,
second, third, and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer and
motion to strike. The Court overruled the demurrer but granted the motion to
strike with leave to amend. 
 
On
February 13, 2024, Category 3 Defendants demurred to the fourth cause of action
of the Complaint. Category 3 Defendants also filed a motion to strike portions
of the Complaint. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer and motion to strike.
 
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. The motion to strike is
granted with leave to amend.
 
Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.)  
 
Analysis 
 
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff’s
opposition to the demurrer argues “[n]owhere does the joint motion identify who
the “Category 3 Defendants” actually are. Indeed,
the law firm that authored the joint motion represents four defendants, but two
of them (Lilly and Parsoda) filed joinders in the “Category 2” motion to
strike.” (Opp. 3:14-16.) Category 3 Defendants do not provide any clarification
or otherwise address this ambiguity on reply. 
 
This argument is well taken. On
this basis alone, the demurrer must be overruled except as to Defendants
Francini Inc., Caesarstone USA, Inc., and DAL-Tile Distribution, LLC, who were
not part of Category 2 Defendants but filed specific joinders to the demurrer
and motion to strike here.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Concealment: 
 
            Category
3 Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment on
the grounds that the Complaint fails to allege the fraud claim with the request
specificity (especially as to corporate defendants) and fails to allege facts
showing the existence of a duty to disclose. 
 
To state a claim
for fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the defendant
“concealed or suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4)
the plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he
had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–11.) 
 
The ordinary rule
about pleading fraud with specificity is less demanding when the alleged fraud
is concealing the truth. Ordinarily, “fraud must be pleaded specifically;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, where, to whom, and by what means” the alleged
fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity requirement is to “separate
meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible in advance of trial.” (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  
 
This standard is less stringent when
the defendant already has “ ‘full information concerning the facts of the
controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217, superseded by statute on other grounds as
stated in Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39
Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation of the specificity requirement is particularly
appropriate in a concealment case. Unlike intentional
misrepresentation, which requires some affirmative representation or promise, a
fraudulent concealment is the absence of something, the suppression
of a fact. (Civ. Code § 1710.) 
 
This distinction was recognized
in Turner v. Milstein (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 651. In
rejecting a demurrer based on uncertainty, the Turner court
pointed out:
 
“The only specification of uncertainty
was that it could not be determined how, or in what manner,
Milstein concealed from plaintiff the time and place of the sale of
the real property. The ultimate fact is pleaded. It is an old and elemental rule
of pleading that a demurrer for uncertainty does not lie if what is sought is a
statement of matter already within the knowledge of the demurring party.... If,
in truth, Milstein concealed from plaintiff the fact that the
property was to be sold, he knows it and he knows the time and place
of concealment, if there was a time and place. It would seem
that concealment is negative and that it would occur without any time
or place. Milstein knows the facts.” (103 Cal.App.2d at p. 658.)
 
Thus, based on the
nature of this type of claim, a plaintiff in a fraud by omission suit will not
be able to specify the time, place, and specific content of an omission as
precisely as would a plaintiff in a false representation claim.
 
However, absent a
fiduciary relationship between the parties (which Plaintiff does not allege
here), a duty to disclose can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant
actively concealed the material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial
representations while also suppressing the material fact. (BiglerEngler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) The California Supreme Court “has described the
necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a ‘transaction’
between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311; Warner
Construction Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In
transactions which do not involve fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman
v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting
concealment claim where plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the
parties they claim defrauded them”]; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337 [“such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties”].)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that
Defendants owed “a legal duty to fully disclose the toxic and fibrogenic
properties of their products directly to Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 413.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants owed this duty “because Defendants alone had knowledge
of material facts, to wit the toxic properties of their products, which were
not accessible to Plaintiff,” “Defendants made representations regarding their
stone products, but failed to disclose additional facts which materially
qualify the facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the disclosures made, likely
to mislead Plaintiff,” and “because a transactional relationship existed
between [Plaintiff] and Defendants inasmuch as [Plaintiff] and/or received
toxic stone products from Defendants.” (Compl., ¶¶ 414-416.)
 
The Complaint further
alleges that Defendants were aware that Plaintiff’s
employers lacked knowledge of the extreme toxic hazards of Defendants’ stone
products, and “nevertheless concealed from Plaintiff . . . the extreme measures
that are necessary to prevent fabricators and installers from getting
silicosis…”  (Compl., ¶¶ 497-498.)  Further, Defendants allegedly concealed from Plaintiff and others
that greater protective equipment was necessary and the hazardous nature of
their products. (Compl., ¶¶ 500-501.)  In
conclusory language, the Complaint also alleges that Defendants owed a duty to
disclose the toxic hazards of their stone products because they alone had
knowledge of their toxic properties, which were inaccessible to Plaintiff, and
because they “made representations regarding their stone products, but failed
to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed….” (Compl.,
¶¶ 414-415.)
 
            When
the Court ruled on the demurrer of Category 2 Defendants, the Court noted that Plaintiff’s
allegations relied solely on the general allegations set forth with respect to
“all Defendants.” (Compl., ¶¶ 495-516.)
 
            Specifically,
the Court found the allegations were conclusory concerning any specific
knowledge held by any specific Category 2 Defendant. The Complaint did not
state what knowledge Defendants had about toxic properties,[1] or
what partial representations they supposedly made and failed to disclose.  Plaintiff maintained, however, that these
allegations pass muster under Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1187. 
 
In Jones, the appellate court
concluded that, at the pleading stage, the plaintiffs (family members of a
deceased worker exposed to toxic chemicals) had alleged sufficient facts to
support a claim of fraudulent concealment against chemical manufacturers.
Specifically, they alleged that the defendants alone were aware of their
products’ toxicity, it was a fact not available to the decedent, and the
defendants concealed that fact. (Id. at pp. 1199-1200.)  Characterizing these as “conclusory
allegations,” the Jones decision recognized that it was a “closer
question” whether they were adequate to state a fraudulent concealment claim
against defendants against whom there were no allegations of manufacturing a
specific product – DMF – for which published studies had attested to its
toxicity.  (Id. at p. 1200.)  “On balance,” reasoned the Jones court,
the pleading provided “adequate notice to the remaining defendants of the
material facts they allegedly concealed” from plaintiff.  Each defendant was found to be “on notice that
it allegedly concealed or failed to disclose the toxic properties of the
product it sold…. Although sparse, nothing more is required at this early stage
of the litigation.”  (Ibid.)
 
Accepting these allegations as true, and adopting the “sparse but
sufficient” standard set forth in Jones v. ConocoPhillips, the Court
held that the allegations survived demurrer with respect to Category 2 Defendants.
 
Turning now to the allegations as they
pertain to Category
3 Defendants, the
Complaint alleges greater detail as to this claim with respect to Defendants
Arizona Title, Ceaserstone USA, Inc., Cambria Company, LLC, Cosentino Group and
C&C North America, Inc., E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Company, Francini,
Inc., LX Hausys America, Inc., M S International, Inc., Pacific Shore Stones,
Pental Granite and Marble, LLC, Stylenquaz LLC, and Vadara Quartz Surfaces.
(Compl., ¶¶ 433-494.) More detailed allegations were also provided as to
Defendant Dal-Tile. (Compl., ¶¶ 227-241.) 

 
            Thus,
in applying the
Court’s Category
2 Defendants
analysis to Category
3 Defendants, the Court finds that the Complaint
adequately states a claim for fraud under Jones v. ConocoPhillips.
 
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Legal
Standard for Motions to Strike
 
            “The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)
“Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include allegations not essential to the
claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds.
(b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Category 3 Defendants
move to strike from the Complaint the phrase “And other stone products to be
identified in discovery,” as well as the request for punitive damages.
 
            First,
citing Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, Defendants
argue the Court must strike Plaintiff’s reliance on “other products” as the
basis for liability. Defendants argue that this allegation is contrary to Bockrath,
which held “the plaintiff must allege facts albeit as succinctly as possible,
explaining how the conduct caused or contributed to the injury” because “the
law cannot tolerate lawsuits by prospecting plaintiffs who sue multiple
defendants on speculation that their products may have caused harm over time
through exposure to toxins in them, and who thereafter try to learn through
discovery whether their speculation was well founded.” (Id. at 79-80.)
This argument is well taken. The Court will grant the motion to strike this
allegation.[2]

 
             Second, with respect to allegations of punitive
damages, they are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.)
“Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for
punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such
as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the
defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of
others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895 [quoting Prosser,
Law of Torts (4th ed. 1971) § 2, at pp. 9-10] [italics omitted].) Specific
intent to injure is not necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that
the defendant’s conduct was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or
conscious disregard of others’ rights.” (McConnell
v. Quinn (1925) 71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request for punitive damages that is
not supported with specific allegations of oppression, fraud, or malice is
subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory allegations that defendants acted
“willfully,” “maliciously,” or with “oppression, fraud, or malice” are not,
without more, sufficient to give rise to a claim for punitive damages, but such
language is permissible where the complaint contains sufficient factual support
for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
The Complaint contains no allegations
showing any wanton, willful or fraudulent conduct by Category 3 Defendants.  Further, as punitive damages are
sought against corporate entities, Plaintiff was also required to – and failed
– to comply with Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b). The motion to strike
is granted as to the request for punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is
granted as to references to “other stone products” and the request for punitive
damages. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Demurrer by Category 3 Defendants
to the fourth cause of action is overruled. The motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend with respect to the request for punitive damages. 
 
 


