

 
             This action arises from an employment dispute.
Plaintiff Daryl G. Crouse (Plaintiff or Crouse) alleges he was discriminated against
and ultimately terminated from his position as an attorney at Defendant
eAccidents, APC (Defendant or eAccidents) based on his religion and for reporting
Defendant Avi E. Muhtar’s harassing behavior. 
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a Complaint for (1.) wrongful termination, (2.) retaliation under Labor Code section
1102.5, (3.) religious discrimination, (4.) failure to pay wages and
commissions under Labor Code section 201 and 202, and (5.) waiting time penalties
under Labor Code section 203. A First Amended Complaint (FAC) was filed on
October 3, 2023, alleging the same causes of action. 
 
On November 2, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant eAccidents filed a Cross-Complaint for (1.) breach
of contract, (2.) breach of duty of loyalty, (3.) trespass, and (4.) trespass
to chattels. 
 
On December 4, 2023, Cross-Defendant
Crouse filed a demurrer to the Cross-Complaint. The Court sustained in part and
overruled in part. 
 
On January 18, 2024, Defendants Tal
Hassid, Avi Muhtar, and Jeff Goldstein filed a demurrer to the FAC. Plaintiff
Daryl Crouse filed an opposition. 
 
            The demurrer
is sustained in its entirety without leave to amend.  
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Discussion

 
Individual Defendants demur to the first
through third causes of action on the grounds that each cause of action fails
to state a claim against them. 
 
            The
Complaint alleges a first cause of action for wrongful termination in violation
of public policy against Defendant eAccidents, Defendant Hassid, and Defendant
Goldstein, a second cause of action for retaliation in violation of California
Labor Code section 1102.5 against Defendant eAccidents, Defendant Hassid, and Defendant
Goldstein, and a third cause of action for religious discrimination in
violation of FEHA against all Defendants.  
 
            The demurrer
argues individual Defendants are not liable for discrimination under the FEHA
as matter of law. This argument is well taken. By its own terms, Government Code
section 12940, subdivision (a), only prohibits discrimination by “an employer.”
Interpreting this provision, our Supreme Court has held that individual
supervisory employees who do not qualify as “employers” within the meaning of
Government Code section 12926, subdivision (d), may not be sued under FEHA for
alleged discriminatory acts. (Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, 644
[“FEHA, however, prohibits only ‘an employer’ from engaging in improper discrimination”];
Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158,
1160.) 
 
            Further,
“[a]s a matter of law, only an
employer can be liable for the tort of wrongful discharge in violation of
public policy.” (Khajavi v. Feather River Anesthesia Medica Group (2000)
84 Cal.App.4th 32, 53.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that “[i]t is through discovery that Plaintiff seeks to unveil any improper
conduct or misuse of the corporate form that would justify piercing the
corporate veil.” (Opp. 2:9-11.) The opposition argument essentially concedes
that the allegations in the FAC are insufficient. Thus, the
demurrer to the first and third causes of action are sustained. 
 
            The
demurrer also makes a similar argument with respect to the second cause of
action for violation of Labor Code section 1102.5.  
 
To establish
a prima facie case of retaliation, a plaintiff must show (1) he engaged in a
protected activity, (2) he was subject to an adverse employment action, and (3)
there is a causal link between the two. (See, e.g., Patten v. Grant Joint
Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.) With respect to
the second element, the current version of Labor Code section 1102.5,
subdivision (c), prohibits retaliation by “[a]n employer, or any person acting
on behalf of the employer.”
 
            The
demurrer argues that the FAC fails to allege an employer-employee relationship
between Plaintiff and either Defendant Hassid or Goldstein. The demurrer specifically
notes that Defendants Hassid and Goldstein “were the only attorneys in the
firm.” (FAC ¶ 8.) However, this allegation satisfies the requirement that
demurring Defendants were “person[s] acting on behalf of the employer.” Thus, the
demurrer on this ground fails. 
 
            However,
Defendants additionally argue that the FAC fails to allege any protected activity as
contemplated by Labor Code section 1102.5. 
 
            Section
1102.5 prohibits retaliatory employment action against a whistleblower.
Specifically, an employer is prohibited from retaliating against an employee
for disclosing information when “the employee has reasonable cause to believe
that the information discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a
violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or
regulation.” (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).) 
 
Here, the FAC alleges that the
purported protected activity in which he engaged was: “reporting Muhtar’s
misconduct, including but not limited to demeaning Plaintiff in front of staff,
filing incorrect federal court documents, and making a veiled threat regarding
office hierarchy.” (FAC ¶ 23.) None of these things constitute the unlawful
conduct required. The demurrer also argues that Plaintiff has pleaded no fact
to support his claim that he had a “reasonable belief” that Defendants Muhtar’s
conduct constituted illegal activity.
 
The opposition does not address this
cause of action at all. The demurrer to this cause of action is well taken.
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer
to the first, second, and third causes of action in the FAC is sustained. Plaintiff shall not have leave to
amend. 
 