 Case Number:  BC703498    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SUSANA MENENDEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  BLANCA SCHLUP, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: BC703498  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: CROSS-COMPLAINANTS’ MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 11, 2023  On April 24, 2018, Plaintiff Brian Miller (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Blanca Schlup, et. al for damages arising from a dog bite. On July 31, 2018, Blanca Schlup (“Schlup”) and Martha Bautista (“Bautista”) filed a cross-complaint against Jack Colocho, Denise Colocho, and Catalina Colocho (“Colocho Defendants”).  On March 30, 2021, Plaintiff settled with defendants Schlup and Bautista. Plaintiff dismissed Schlup, Bautista, and all unnamed Doe Defendants. Schlup and Bautista (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) now move to set aside default obtained against Cross-Defendant Jack Colocho on the grounds of mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect because entry of default was obtained prior to service of the Statement of Damages upon Jack Colocho. Cross-Complainants request mandatory relief under attorney error.  CCP § 473(b) states in pertinent part, “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any … dismissal entered against his or her client…” [emphasis added].  “To obtain mandatory relief under section 473, plaintiffs' counsel need not show that his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect was excusable. No reason need be given for the existence of one of these circumstances. Attestation that one of these reasons existed is sufficient to obtain relief, unless the trial court finds that the dismissal did not occur because of these reasons.”  (Graham v. Beers (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1656, 1660; accord. Leader v. Health Indus. of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 616 [“The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary provision, and includes inexcusable neglect”.].)   In this case, Jack Colocho’s default was obtained on August 6, 2020. On August 19, 2022, the Court denied Cross-Complainants’ request for default judgment and informed Cross-Complainants of the Statement of Damages timing issue. However, Cross-Complainants waited to file the instant motion until July 20, 2023, which is 3 years after the entry of default itself, and 11 months after being notified of the issue.   The motion is untimely, and therefore DENIED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 10th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    