 Case Number:  21STCV00972    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DANIEL HEMPLE,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
BRISTOL FARMS, ET AL.,
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 21STCV00972
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’s
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 31
1:30 p.m. 
October 11, 2023



 
 
1. Background
On January 11,
2021, Plaintiff Danielle Hemple (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendant 
Bristol Farms (“Defendant”).
Plaintiff alleges negligence and premises liability against 
Defendant for an incident in which
Plaintiff slipped and fell in a puddle of water while in 
Defendant’s store.
 
On February 1,
2023, this Court granted leave to allow Plaintiff to amend the Complaint to add
a 
request for punitive damages. On
February 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint 
containing prayers for punitive
damages. On April 17, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s 
motion to strike Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint as to the punitive damages allegations with 
leave to amend. On May 8, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On June 7, 2023, Defendant
filed a motion to strike Paragraphs 13-30 in the SAC and the Prayer for
punitive 
damages. On July 17, 2023, the
Court granted Defendant’s motion to strike as to Paragraphs 13-30 in the SAC,
and the Prayer for punitive damages without leave to amend.
 
 
Plaintiff, at this
time, moves for leave to file Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) against
Defendant. On September 28, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file Third Amended Complaint. On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a reply to the opposition. 
 
2. Motion for Leave to File
Third Amended Complaint
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to add a separate cause of action for general negligence against
Defendant. Defendant contends the proposed TAC is based on the same set of
facts as all earlier versions of the pleadings, refers to the same incident
that occurred on February 3, 2019, and seeks recovery for the same injuries
suffered by Plaintiff as alleged in the original complaint. Plaintiff requests
that the proposed TAC be deemed by this court to be the amended pleading and
that it be deemed filed and served as of the date of the Court’s ruling on this
motion. Further, Plaintiff argues Defendant will not be prejudiced if the
motion is granted. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s newly asserted theory of
negligence is untimely because it is not based on the same general set of facts
or the same instrumentality as the original negligence claim and violates the
two-year statute of limitations. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion is
improper because she fails to explain expanding her existing pleading less than
four months before trial. Defendant also claims that the granting of
Plaintiff’s motion would prejudice Defendant and deprive them of an opportunity
to prepare a proper defense including prepare and serve a motion for summary
adjudication and complete discovery on this new cause of action. 
 
            In
reply, Plaintiff argues that the amended complaint is deemed filed as of the
time the original complaint is filed to avoid the statute of limitations.
Plaintiff asserts the extent of discovery to be completed on the negligence
cause of action is de minimis and Plaintiff, other parties, and witnesses do
not have to be deposed again. Plaintiff does not oppose a trial continuance to
allow Defendant to file a motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff contends there
will be no prejudice to Defendant because Plaintiff agrees to continue trial. 
CCP § 473(a)(1)
provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like
terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
“This discretion
should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy
favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature. The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend
where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter
of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment. (See California
Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281,
overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins.
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)
Under CRC Rule
3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
Under CRC Rule
3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify
(1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good
amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay
in presenting it may be a good reason for denial. In most cases, the factors
for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in
offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay
on the adverse party. If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and
the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny
leave to amend. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)
Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,
resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as
an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
Plaintiff has satisfied California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subdivision (a). Plaintiff seeks to add a new cause of action.
Plaintiff submitted the Proposed TAC and identified where the changes would
take place. (Liberatore Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) 
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff fails to provide a valid
justification for her delay in filing this motion. The evidence suggests that
Plaintiff waited at least four months before seeking leave to file the TAC. However,
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that he did not make the request earlier because
“[h]e did not have the presence of mind to bring the cause of action. (Liberatore Decl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff’s counsel explains that the case before had a site-specific focus and
the pleadings before were” based on a reasonable belief that the information
would exist after discovery… However, the theory became viable and crystallized
once I obtained additional evidence in my independent investigation.” (Id.)
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel explains the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Accordingly, Plaintiff satisfies California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subdivision (b).
 
a.     
Statute of Limitations
 
The statute of
limitations for filing an action for personal injuries is two years from the
date of the injury.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
335.1.)  A motion for leave to amend
could be properly denied where there is a statute of limitations concern.  (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.)  However, an
amended complaint relates back to a timely filed original complaint, and thus
avoids the bar of the statute of limitations, if it rests on the same general
set of facts and refers to the same “offending instrumentalities,” accident and
injuries as the original complaint. (Barrington v. A.H. Robins Co.
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 146, 151.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
is seeking to add new facts to a new cause of action. Plaintiff seeks to add
that the subject injury involved a “baconed” mat by the front door on a rainy
day in the Bristol Farms Store. The original complaint does not mention anything
about the floor mats at the Bristol Farms store. Rather, the complaint states
“Plaintiff was caused to fall by the wet floor as she was exiting the register
area and walking towards the exit doors.” (Complaint ¶ 8.) While Plaintiff
attaches the complaint from Danusha Rembaum v. Bristol Farms, et al., LASC Case
No. 19STCV14789, these allegations brought against Bristol Farms do not arise
out of the same facts stated in this case. (Mot., Exh. C.) Although Defendant
admits Plaintiff’s new negligence claim relates to the same injuries claimed by
Plaintiff from the February 3, 2019 incident, Plaintiff’s original complaint
did not assert that the wet “baconed” floor mats caused Plaintiff to fall. The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s new cause of action is not based on the same
material facts and allegations and thus, Plaintiff cannot appeal to the
relation back doctrine. Therefore, Plaintiff’s new cause of action is barred by
the statute of limitations and the relation back doctrine does not apply.   
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint is denied. 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
·       
Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
·       
If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at sscdept31@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the
email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information,
and the identity of the party submitting. 

·       
Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.  
·       
If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 
 
Dated this 11th day of October
2023







 


 




 


Hon. Michelle
  Kim 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



