 Case Number:  PC058369    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F-43
Date: 5-21-24
Case # PC058369,
Erik L. Lassman vs. Dorene Robinson
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant DeWelt, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant and Cross-Complainant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant DeWelt is demurring to Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint:
·        
Entire Complaint
·        
First Cause of Action for Cancellation of
Instrument
·        
Second Cause of Action for Conversion
 
RULING:
Demurrer is overruled.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This action
arises from competing ownership claims to the property located at 30141
Lexington Dr., Val Verde, CA. Plaintiff Erik Lassman and Jim V. Robinson owned
the property as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. In April 2011, Erik
Lassman, as CEO and owner of Dewelt, LLC, transferred the entire joint tenancy
interest to DeWelt, LLC (DeWelt). On May 23, 2011, Jim V. Robinson transferred
his joint interest to Defendant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC, a Nevada
Corporation. Road Runner Nevada’s corporate status has been permanently
revoked.
 
Road Runner
Land & Homes, LLC, a Wyoming LLC, filed a cross-complaint against DeWelt on
October 17, 2023. The cross-complaint alleges two causes of action for
cancellation of instrument and conversion. On November 4, 2021, this Court
entered an Order After Judgment which directed Road Runner to convey the
subject property to DeWelt. On February 9, 2022, Road Runner conveyed the
property to DeWelt, which then conveyed the property to a McConnell on the very
same day for just $10,000, which Road Runner alleges was well below market
value. The Court of Appeal later reversed the default judgment as to Road
Runner. This also reversed the Order After Judgment for the conveyance to
DeWelt. Road Runner Wyoming filed its cross-complaint in order to resolve any
clouds on title and to be reimbursed for personal property that it alleges was
converted after the property was conveyed to DeWelt.
 
DeWelt filed a
demurrer to Road Runner Wyoming’s Cross-Complaint on December 19, 2023. DeWelt
argues that Road Runner Wyoming lacks standing to file the cross-complaint
because it was not the entity that was sued and is not a party to the case.
DeWelt also argues that Road Runner Wyoming does not have an interest in the
property. Finally, DeWelt argues that the two causes of action do not state
sufficient facts to constitute causes of action.
 
Road Runner
Wyoming filed an opposition to DeWelt’s demurrer on May 7, 2024. In its
opposition, Road Runner Wyoming argues that DeWelt’s demurrer was untimely, that
DeWelt failed to meet and confer on the “uncertain” argument prior to filing
the demurrer, and that Road Runner Wyoming has standing to appear in this
action. Road Runner Wyoming also raises the issue that DeWelt failed to meet
the legal standard for a demurrer. Finally, Road Runner Wyoming argues that its
causes of action do state claims for cancellation of instrument and conversion.
 
DeWelt argues
in its reply that its demurrer was timely because it filed a declaration
seeking an automatic 30-day extension back on November 16, 2023. Next, it
argues that there was sufficient meet and confer, and even if there was not,
that is not a sufficient basis to deny the demurrer. DeWelt also argues that
the facts alleged in Road Runner Wyoming’s cross-complaint are insufficient to
maintain the causes of action. Finally, it argues that Road Runner Wyoming is
without standing because it is not a named party.
 
Dewelt’s Request
for Judicial Notice: Dewelt has requested that the Court take judicial notice of
various deeds and documents from the Nevada Secretary of State website. The
Court will take judicial notice of the documents, but only as to their
existence, not for the truth of the content contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by
raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280,
286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its
effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial
justice between the parties.” (CCP § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law…” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726,
733.) 
 
            Timeliness of the Demurrer
Road Runner
Wyoming argues in its opposition that Dewelt failed to timely file its
demurrer. CCP § 430.40(a) provides that a party may file a demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint within 30 days after service of the complaint or
cross-complaint.
 
Road Runner
Wyoming argues that this means that the demurrer should have been filed by November
20, 2023, to account for the service of the answer by electronic mail. Dewelt
did not file its demurrer until December 19, 2023.
 
In DeWelt’s
reply, DeWelt argues that its demurrer was timely filed because it sought a
30-day extension to file its demurrer on November 16, 2023. 
 
The relevant section
concerning the 30-day extension is from CCP § 430.41(a)(2):
“The parties shall meet and confer at
least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are
not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive
pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day
extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and
serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration
stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer
was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.
The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was
previously due, and the demurring party shall not be subject to default during
the period of the extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court
order upon a showing of good cause.”
 
The cross-complaint
was filed on October 17, 2023. A responsive pleading in this case was due on November
20, 2023. The alleged meet and confer started with an email sent by DeWelt’s
counsel on November 13, 2023. The declaration filed with DeWelt’s demurrer
claims that this was at least 5 days before any responsive pleadings were due.
(Oronsaye Decl., ¶ 3.) On November 16, 2023, counsel for the two parties had a
phone call regarding the cross-complaint. DeWelt’s request for the 30-day
extension was filed that same day. Based on this, the parties were not able to
meet and confer telephonically at least 5 days before the responsive pleading
was due. DeWelt’s request for the extension was served before the date on which
a demurrer would have been due because it was served on November 16 and the
demurrer was due on November 20.
 
The Court will
note that the parties’ arguments are a bit confusing regarding the 30-day
extension. Road Runner Wyoming argues that DeWelt did not conduct a meet and
confer prior to 5 days before the deadline to file a demurrer, but if that is
the case, then the 30-day extension would automatically activate. DeWelt argues
that it did start the meet and confer process more than 5 days before the
deadline, but if it did, then it would not get the 30-day extension and its
demurrer would be untimely. It appears that both parties are misunderstanding
the requirements of CCP § 430.41(a)(2).
 
For purposes of
this demurrer, the Court will find that the meet and confer did not happen
until the phone call on November 16. That was less than 5 days before the
deadline to file a responsive pleading, so the parties were unable to conduct a
meet and confer prior to those 5-day window. Therefore, DeWelt was able to
request a 30-day extension by filing its declaration on November 16.
 
Based on this,
it appears that DeWelt was successful in requesting the 30-day extension to
file the demurrer. DeWelt’s demurrer, filed on December 19, 2023, was timely. 
 
            Meet and Confer
There is some
dispute between the parties regarding the sufficiency of Dewelt’s meet and
confer. CCP § 430.41(a) requires a demurring party to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading. However, CCP § 430.41(a)(4) states that “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.”
 
Therefore, the
sufficiency of the meet and confer process does not matter in deciding a
demurrer. 
 
            Standing
Lack of
standing may be raised on demurrer to a complaint or cross-complaint because
standing is the threshold element required to state a cause of action. (See Martin
v. Bridgeport Community Assn., Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1024.)
 
CCP § 367
establishes that “[e]very action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute.” A real party in
interest is one who has “an actual and substantial interest in the subject
matter of the action and who would be benefited or injured by the judgment in
the action.” (Friendly Village Community Assn., Inc. v. Silva & Hill
Constr. Co. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 220, 225.)
 
DeWelt argues
that Road Runner Wyoming is not a real party in interest because it was Road
Runner Nevada that was named in the original lawsuit, not Road Runner Wyoming. DeWelt
argues that Road Runner Wyoming lacks standing because it is not a party to
this case.
 
Road Runner
Wyoming argues in its opposition that it has standing based on CCP § 762.050.
That section provides “Any person who has a claim to the property described in
the complaint may appear in the proceeding. Whether or not the person is named
as a defendant in the complaint, the person shall appear as a defendant.” (CCP
§ 762.050; see also Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. McGurk (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 201, 211 [“[a]ny person who has a claim to the property may appear
as a defendant, whether or not they are named in the complaint”].) This section
ensures that a claimant unknown to the plaintiff is not foreclosed from relief.

 
Road Runner
Wyoming has provided a Grant Deed that demonstrates that Road Runner Nevada
transferred its interest in the property at issue to Road Runner Wyoming.
(Robinson Decl., Ex. A.) The Grant Deed was dated July 2, 2021, executed on
July 16, 2021, and recorded on August 5, 2021. (Robinson Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 3.)
This Grant Deed shows that Road Runner Wyoming is a real party in interest
because it owns an interest in the property at issue.
 
DeWelt’s
arguments in its reply are confusing and appear to mostly disregard that Road
Runner Wyoming owns an interest in the property at issue. Because Road Runner
Wyoming owns an interest in the property at issue in this case, it has standing
to appear in the proceeding. To the extent that DeWelt is arguing that Road
Runner Wyoming cannot file a cross-complaint without first being a defendant, Road
Runner Wyoming filed an answer the same day it filed this cross-complaint. California
law holds that a “defendant has the right to file a cross-complaint at the time
of filing his answer.” (See People ex rel. Department of Public Works v. Los
Angeles (1960) 179 Cal.App.2d 558, 567; see also CCP § 428.50(a) [“[a]
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint”].) Road Runner Wyoming was able
to file its answer pursuant to CCP § 762.050, so it is also able to file a
cross-complaint with its answer.
 
The Court finds
that Road Runner Wyoming had standing to file its cross-complaint.
 
            First Cause of Action for
Cancellation of Instrument
DeWelt demurs
to this cause of action on the basis that Road Runner Wyoming has failed to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
“A claim for
cancellation of written instrument is an equitable claim that is codified in
Civil Code section 3412,” which “allows a plaintiff to obtain cancellation of
an instrument that creates a cloud on the plaintiff’s title.” (Weeden v.
Hoffman (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 269, 292; see also Civ. Code § 3412 [“[a]
written instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable apprehension that
if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is
void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be
delivered up or canceled”].) To plead a right to cancellation under Section
3412, a plaintiff must allege the instrument is “void or voidable” and would
cause “serious injury” if not canceled. (Saterbak v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 808, 818-819.)
 
DeWelt argues
in its demurrer that Road Runner Wyoming has failed to plead why the
instruments at issue would be void or voidable. However, Road Runner’s
cross-complaint clearly states that the “grant deeds are void and/or voidable
as the Court of Appeal has reversed the Order After Judgment, which Order in
turn had allowed for the conveyance from Road Runner to DeWelt…If left
outstanding, the deeds will create a cloud on title.” (CC, ¶ 13.) The reversal
of an order allowing for conveyance of the property appears to be a reason for
the deeds being void or voidable. To allow the deeds to stand would cause
serious injury because it would cloud the title of the property. Road Runner’s
allegations are sufficient to maintain this cause of action.
 
DeWelt’s
demurrer to Road Runner’s First Cause of Action is overruled.
 
            Second Cause of Action for
Conversion
Conversion is
“‘the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another.’” (Mendoza
v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404-1405, quoting Burlesci
v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.) Under California law, “[t]he
basic elements of the tort are (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of personal property; (2) the defendant’s disposition of the
property in a manner that is inconsistent with the plaintiff’s property rights;
and (3) resulting damages.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
Road Runner
Wyoming’s cross-complaint alleged that several items owned by it were left at
the property, including roof trusses, tile, paint, scaffolding, and other items
worth approximately $35,000. (CC, ¶ 15.) It alleges that this property was
either sold or disposed of by DeWelt. (Id.) Finally, while Road Runner
does not explicitly say that it was damaged, that can be inferred from the loss
of $35,000 worth of personal property. (Id.)
 
DeWelt argues
that Road Runner alleges the conversion of real property. However, it is clear
from Road Runner’s cross-complaint that it is alleging the conversion of the
personal property items left at the property. Road Runner has stated sufficient
facts to maintain a cause of action for conversion.
 
DeWelt’s
demurrer to Road Runner’s Second Cause of Action is overruled.
 
CONCLUSION
DeWelt’s
demurrer is overruled on the standing issue and as to Road Runner’s First and Second
Causes of Action.
 
Moving party to
give notice.