 Case Number:  22STCV10932    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HUMBERTO NUNEZ, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KIA AMERICA, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV10932
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT KIA
  AMERICA, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
Date: 
  May 16, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Kia America, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Moving Defendant”)) 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs’ complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleges causes of action arising from the purchase of an allegedly
defective vehicle (the “Vehicle”) manufactured by Defendant.  The Complaint alleges the following causes of
action: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of
the Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2; (4) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment;
and (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Intentional Misrepresentation. [1]

 
            According to the Complaint, on
August 31, 2019, Plaintiffs purchased a 2020 Kia Soul, VIN: KNDJ53AF2L7094694,
(the “Vehicle”).  The Complaint alleges that:  express warranties accompanied the sale of
the Vehicle to Plaintiffs, by which Defendant undertook to preserve or maintain
the utility or performance of the Vehicle or to provide compensation if there
was a failure in its utility or performance. 
(Compl. ¶ 11.)  The Vehicle was
manufactured by Defendant and delivered to Plaintiffs with a defective engine
(the “Engine Defect”).  (Compl. ¶
18.)  The Complaint alleges that the Engine
Defect in certain Kia vehicles equipped with GDI engines led to an unacceptable
risk of spontaneous vehicle fires due to restricted oil flow to engine parts,
premature wear and eventual engine failure. 
(Compl. ¶¶ 18-22.)    
 
The Court notes that most of the allegations
regarding knowledge of vehicle defects made in the Complaint are addressed to
Hyundai Motor Company (“Hyundai”) and its vehicles and to Kia vehicles that are
not of the same model and year as the Vehicle. 
(See, e.g., Compl. ¶¶ 19-26.)  Hyundai is not a defendant in this case, and
the only connection alleged between Hyundai and Kia is that Hyundai is the
largest shareholder of Kia Motors Corporation (“KMC”), the parent company of
Defendant, owning only 33.3388 percent of KMC’s stock.  (Compl ¶¶ 4-6.)   The
Complaint asserts that Hyundai’s “knowledge and concealment of the defects can
be imputed to Defendant.”  (Compl. ¶ 62.)
The Complaint’s allegations regarding Defendant’s prior knowledge of the Engine
Defect are thus apparently based upon the alleged knowledge of a minority
shareholder in Defendant’s parent company.  (Compl. ¶¶ 60-72.)  
 
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs’ Vehicle was
equipped with a GDI engine.  (Compl. ¶
83.)  On August 31, 2019, Plaintiffs
visited Kia of Carson in Carson, California, intending to purchase a new 2020
Kia Soul.  (Compl. ¶ 84.)  Before purchasing, they were allegedly influenced
by marketing materials—brochures, television, and radio commercials—approved by
Defendant's officers and managers, which notably omitted information about the
engine defect.  The Complaint alleges
that this lack of disclosure was crucial to their decision to buy the Vehicle,
as they would not have proceeded with the sale had they been aware of the Engine
Defect.  (Compl. ¶ 85.)
 
The Vehicle required repairs twice.  The first occasion was around August 21,
2020, for a check engine warning and tire leaks.  A technician discovered scoring in cylinder 2
and replaced the engine, and the Vehicle was returned to Plaintiffs 32 days
later with assurances of its safety. (Compl. ¶ 86.)  The second repair, around July 5, 2021,
addressed transmission judder issues, requiring a double clutch replacement and
other adjustments, and after 19 days the Vehicle was again returned to
Plaintiffs, purportedly safe to drive.  (Compl. ¶ 87.) 
 
            On December 15, 2023, Moving
Defendant filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Summary
Adjudication, as to the Complaint (the “MSJ”) on the grounds that there are no
triable issues of material fact as to the causes of action for breach of
express warranty, breach of implied warranty and violation of Section 1793.2 of
the California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly” or the “Act”).  Moving Defendant also asserts that
Plaintiffs’ claims for civil penalties under Song-Beverly fail because
Plaintiffs cannot show that Moving Defendant acted willfully in how it handled
Plaintiffs’ vehicle repairs and repurchase request.  Additionally, Moving Defendant asserts that
Plaintiffs’ claims for attorneys’ fees fail because none of Plaintiffs’
attorneys’ fees and costs can be deemed reasonable or necessarily incurred
because Defendant promptly offered to replace the Vehicle, pre-litigation. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The
Court hereby rules on Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Jeffrey
Mukai:
            SUSTAINED: 1
            OVERRULED: 2, 3, 4
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT   
Legal Standard 
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 437c,
subdivision (c) requires the judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   
            “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he or she is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 828.)  Once the moving party has met its burden, the
burden then shifts to the non-moving party to show that there is a triable
issue as to any material fact.  (Id. at 849.)  With respect to a motion for summary judgment,
“the moving party’s affidavits are strictly construed while those of the
opposing party are liberally construed.” 
(Walker v. Blue Cross of
California (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 985, 990.) With respect to a motion for summary judgment “if it is not set
forth in the separate statement, it does not exist.”  (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 308, 313.)  
 
“A defendant . . .
has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the causes of action . . . cannot
be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)  “Summary adjudication motions are
procedurally identical to summary judgment motions.”  (Serri
v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 859.)  “A party may not avoid summary judgment based
on mere speculation and conjecture . . . but instead must produce admissible
evidence raising a triable issue of fact.” 
(Compton v. City of Santee (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 591, 595-596.)  In the
context of a summary judgment motion, “[t]he mere existence of a scintilla of
evidence in support of the plaintiff’s position will be insufficient; there
must be evidence on which the jury could reasonably find for the
plaintiff.”  (Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc. (1986) 477 U.S. 242, 252.)  
 
Once
the moving party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause
of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)  The opposition papers must include a separate statement that
responds to each of the material facts that the moving party claims to be undisputed. 
(CCP § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If the opposing party disputes a fact, then
the opposing party must reference supporting evidence.  (Id.)   
 
Issue No. 1: Breach of
Express Warranty
Moving
Defendant argues that summary judgment is appropriate on all of Plaintiffs’
Song-Beverly claims, including their express warranty claims, because
Plaintiffs ignored a reasonable offer by Moving Defendant to repurchase the Vehicle
(the “Offer”).  Moving Defendant argues
that it met its obligations under Song-Beverly when it made a prompt and
reasonable repurchase Offer in response to Plaintiffs’ request, thus negating
any claim of failure to comply with the Act.
 
Moving
Defendant contends that its Offer was prompt — it responded to Plaintiffs’
buy-back request within five days, initiating a review process and making a
repurchase offer only thirteen days after the request.  (Defendant’s Undisputed Material Facts “UMF”
nos. 34-35.)  This Offer included three
options: a replacement vehicle, repurchase of the Vehicle, or a $10,000
goodwill payment should Plaintiffs choose to keep the Vehicle.  (UMF nos. 34-39.)  Moving Defendant highlights that this
response time is significantly prompt by legal standards, and the Offer was
reasonable and compliant with Song-Beverly, but Plaintiffs failed to respond to
the Offer or to three follow-up emails regarding the Offer.  (UMF nos. 40-41.)  Moving Defendant states that deductions for
non-manufacturer optional third-party contracts (such as protective products,
service contracts, and gap insurance) from its repurchase Offer are properly
aligned with Song-Beverly’s provisions, as Song-Beverly excludes charges for
non-manufacturer items installed by a dealer or the buyer from restitution or
replacement to restore the buyer’s original expenditure status.  Thus, Moving Defendant’s deductions for items
like CILAJET surface protection and various service contracts and gap insurance
were appropriate, as these are “nonmanufacturer item(s).”  (UMF, Nos. 27, 39.)  
 
Moving
Defendant also maintains that its mileage offset in the repurchase offer was
lawfully calculated, focusing on the Vehicle’s usage before its first delivery
for the correction of the problem causing nonconformity.  Despite the Vehicle’s being serviced for “rough
idle” issues at 14,872 miles, Moving Defendant chose to base the mileage
deduction on an earlier problem—a check engine light at 8,490 miles (UMF, No.
33), which it asserts was a generous approach in its calculation.  Moreover, Moving Defendant argues that since
Plaintiffs ignored Moving Defendant’s Offer and instead brought this action,
this indicates that litigation was pursued solely for the purpose of recovering
fees and penalties such that Plaintiffs should be equitably estopped from
seeking such remedies.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Moving Defendant’s conditional Offer does not
comply with Song-Beverly because it was not fully transparent, lacking the full
disclosure of its terms.  (Plaintiff’s
Additional Material Facts “AMF” Nos. 1-3, 5, 7.)  They contend that an offer must be clear,
definite, explicit and leave nothing open for negotiation to be considered a
valid legal offer under contract law, citing precedent that supports the need for
an offer to be complete and unambiguous to form a contract.   (Alexander v. Codemasters Gp. Ltd.
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 129.)  Plaintiffs
further assert that Moving Defendant’s undisclosed release agreement required
Plaintiff Humberto Nunez to indemnify Moving Defendant, which is not
permissible under Song-Beverly.  They
argue that mandatory compliance with the Act cannot be conditioned on a
consumer’s acceptance of such indemnification. 
(AMF No. 9.)  
 
Additionally,
Plaintiffs claim that Moving Defendant’s release agreement improperly
conditioned compliance with Song-Beverly on Plaintiffs’ waiver of other legal
rights, which is against the principle that Song-Beverly’s remedies are
cumulative and should not restrict any remedy that is otherwise available.  (AMF No. 6.)  Plaintiffs also argue that Moving Defendant’s
pre-litigation response was improperly conditioned on the current condition of
the Vehicle, requiring the Vehicle to be returned in good working order except
for claimed nonconformities, and that any damage beyond ordinary wear and tear was
to be repaired at the consumer’s expense or deducted from the settlement
payment.  (AMF No. 4, 10.)   
 
Plaintiffs
reference MacQuiddy v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th
1036 and Valdez v. Seidner-Miller, Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 600 to
support their position that such conditions are not allowed by Song-Beverly.  Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that Moving Defendant’s
Offer contained improper deductions prohibited by Song-Beverly and was
essentially a “low ball” Offer.  They note
that the Act permits only specific deductions from the restitution calculation
and does not allow for deductions like those made by Moving Defendant for
service contracts and gap insurance.  Plaintiffs assert that the failure to include
reimbursement for incidental damages like registration and insurance from the
date the Vehicle first qualified for a repurchase is further evidence that Moving
Defendant’s Offer did not comply with the statutory requirements, potentially
exposing Moving Defendant to liability for civil penalties.  (AMF Nos. 12, 13, 15.) 
 
In
reply, Moving Defendant contends that its Offer was valid under Song-Beverly,
which supports settlement negotiations and the execution of release agreements
in the context of vehicle reacquisition. 
Moving Defendant points out that Song-Beverly explicitly allows for such
agreements as long as they do not include prohibited confidentiality clauses,
arguing that their Offer did not contravene any statutory requirements.  Moving Defendant asserts that its attempt to
repurchase the Vehicle was a legitimate offer of performance aimed at
extinguishing its obligation, which Plaintiffs refused, thereby defaulting
their position and preventing Moving Defendant from complying with its
statutory duties.  Additionally, Moving Defendant
disputes Plaintiffs’ claim regarding improper deductions and the failure to
reimburse incidental damages.  Moving Defendant
states that Song-Beverly explicitly allows the exclusion of non-manufacturer
items from restitution calculations and that its deductions for service
contracts and GAP insurance were legally justified.  
 
Moving
Defendant also addresses Plaintiffs’ inaction in response to its Offer,
particularly their failure to negotiate or even engage with the terms
presented.  This lack of engagement, Moving
Defendant argues, is at odds with the cooperative spirit that Song-Beverly
envisages for resolving disputes over vehicle nonconformities.  By failing to respond or provide requested
documentation on incurred expenses, Moving Defendant contends that Plaintiffs
hindered Moving Defendant’s ability to fulfill its obligations. 
 
The
Court finds that Moving Defendants did not fail to disclose all material terms
when Moving Defendant made its Offer and the Offer is not invalid by including
improper terms.  First, the Court notes
that Plaintiffs do not dispute that the Offer was promptly made by Moving
Defendant, and the Court finds that the Offer was made promptly as a matter of
law.  Second, the Offer states that the
parties would enter into a full release agreement if Plaintiffs accepted the
Offer, but Plaintiffs did not accept the Offer.  (UMF No. 16.) 
Thus, it appears that there was no need to include the full release
agreement.  Further, Moving Defendant
correctly points out in its reply that “The question here is not ‘is there an
enforceable contract,’ but rather, ‘did [Defendant] do what Song-Beverly
requires?’ [Defendant] did—it tried to repurchase the Vehicle, and Plaintiffs
rebuffed it.”  (Reply p. 3.)  
 
Plaintiffs
claim that the undisclosed release agreement renders the Offer invalid because
it required Plaintiffs to indemnify Moving Defendant and improperly conditioned
compliance with the Act on Plaintiffs’ agreeing to waive other legal
rights.  Plaintiffs cite Goglin v. BMW
of North America, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 462, where the court found that
“[r]ejecting the prelitigation settlement because of [] unfavorable extraneous
terms” and a confidentiality clause “was not unreasonable.”  (Id. at 1170.)  Plaintiffs also rely on McKenzie v. Ford
Motor Company (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 695, where the court found that the plaintiff
“acted reasonably in rejecting [the 998 offer]” which “amounted to an abuse of
discretion in the circumstances of [that] case.”  (Id. at 708.)  The court pointed out that there were
“extraneous and improper nonfinancial terms incorporated into the release Ford
included in that proposed compromise, McKenzie acted reasonably in rejecting
it.  And McKenzie’s prompt service of a
counteroffer with essentially identical financial terms, but stripped of the
extraneous provisions, reflected his willingness to complete a settlement.”  (Id.)  
 
The
Court finds Goglin and McKenzie to be distinguishable from the
facts at hand.  Unlike the plaintiff in Goglin
who engaged in communications with BMW regarding the terms in the Offer letter,
here, Plaintiffs failed to engage in any negotiations regarding the Offer.  Indeed, the court in Goglin noted that
“Goglin’s counsel [] unambiguously communicated in a letter countering the
offer that Goglin was unwilling to agree to a general release or a confidential
clause.”  (Goglin, supra,
4 Cal.App.5th at 472.)  In McKenzie,
the initial settlement offer included a confidentiality provision that was “expressly
prohibited by statute (see Civ. Code, § 1793.26, subd. (a)(2)),” whereas here, Plaintiffs
fail to show any invalid or improper terms in the Offer.  (McKenzie, supra, 238
Cal.App.4th at 705.)  Plaintiffs fail to
provide any legal precedent or authority that a settlement agreement is invalid
if it includes an indemnification clause and release of rights.  Rather, Song Beverly allows parties to enter
into release agreements.  (Civil Code §
1793.26.)
 
The
Court finds that the Offer was not improperly conditioned on the current
condition of the Vehicle.  Plaintiffs
provide no case law that requires a vehicle distributor or manufacturer to accept
any vehicle regardless of its condition whatsoever or that a prelitigation
offer that includes a similar condition as that contained in the Offer is
invalid.  The Offer stated that
replacement and repurchase were “contingent on the physical inspection of the
vehicle for damage and/or excessive wear and tear. A cashier’s check made
payable to Kia America, Inc., for any damages beyond normal wear and tear will
be required prior to Kia’s fulfillment of the terms contained in this
settlement.”  (UMF No. 4.)  
 
Plaintiffs’
reliance on MacQuiddy is misplaced. 
MacQuiddy is distinguishable, mainly on the fact that it was
based on a section 998 offer, which encourages settlements by potentially
shifting costs based on the final judgment compared to the offer.  There, the 998 offer “limited compliance to
repurchase of the car, ‘in an undamaged condition, save normal wear and
tear.’”  (MacQuiddy, supra,
233 Cal.App.4th at 1050.)  The issue
there was with the ambiguity of the term “undamaged,” which the court stated
was not clearly defined, leading to uncertainty about what would qualify as
acceptable for the repurchase.  The court
in MacQuiddy stated that it failed to see how “the [trial] court could
compare the value of obtaining the repurchase of the car without regard to its
condition to the offer requiring that the car be ‘undamaged,’ in order to
determine whether MacQuiddy received a more favorable judgment than the offer.”  (Id.) 

 
The
court explained in MacQuiddy that “[s]uch an evaluation would require a
factual determination of whether the car was damaged, which was not an issue
otherwise relevant to the proceedings. Because of the undefined and subjective
nature of the term that Mercedes-Benz would repurchase the ‘undamaged’ car, we
conclude the section 998 offer was at least ambiguous, and was therefore not
valid.”  (Id.)  In contrast, the present case does not
involve a section 998 offer but rather a prelitigation settlement offer, which
does not carry the same legal implications for cost recovery and does not
require the same level of scrutiny regarding the fairness of the Offer’s terms.  Plaintiff’s reliance on McKenzie fails
for similar reasons given that that case also involved a 998 offer.
The
Court finds that the Offer did not contain improper deductions nor did it fail
to include reimbursement for incidental damages.  “When a buyer seeks restitution from an
automobile manufacturer for a defective vehicle under section 1793.2,
subdivision (d)(2)(B) (restitution provision), the buyer is entitled to ‘an
amount equal to the actual price paid or payable by the buyer,’ as specified.
‘The manufacturer must also pay for any “collateral charges” [citation] and
“incidental damages” incurred [citation].” [Citation.] The manufacturer is,
however, entitled to an offset for the buyer’s use of the vehicle prior to the
buyer first delivering the vehicle for repair, as specified. (Section 1793.2,
subd. (d)(2).)”  (Williams v. FCA US
LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 765, 771.) 

 
In
Williams, the parties disagreed as to whether the “manufacturer was
entitled to a credit for the trade-in value of the truck in calculating ‘the
actual price paid or payable by the buyer’ under the restitution
provision.”  (Williams, supra,
88 Cal.App.5th at 771.)  The court
explained that the term “‘actual price paid or payable’ in the restitution
provision means the cost to obtain the vehicle at the time of purchase, whether
that cost is paid at the time of purchase or payable thereafter.”  (Williams, supra, 88
Cal.App.5th at 779-780.)  The court
pointed out that “interpretations that would significantly vitiate a
manufacturer’s incentive to comply with the Act should be avoided.”  (Id.) 
In Williams, the manufacturer sought to reduce the amount to be
paid to the buyer by the trade-in value for the defective vehicle.  (Id. at 771.)  
 
The
Court finds Williams to be distinguishable because that case involved
deduction of the trade-in value while this case involves service contracts and
GAP insurance.  Moving Defendant relies
on federal cases to support its claim that the service contracts and GAP
insurance were non-manufacturer items that were rightfully deducted.  (Carillo v. FCA USA, LLC (C.D. Cal.
2021) 546 F.Supp.3d 995, 1002; see also Velazuez v. Ford Motor Co. (E.D.
Cal. July 13, 2021) 2021 WL 2948649, at 2-3 [service contract and gap insurance
were “nonmanufacturer items”].)  On the
other hand, Plaintiffs claim that service contracts and gap insurance are not
“installed” items but are rather payment for services and insurance more akin
to finance fees and charges.  (Mitchell
v. Blue Bird Body Co. (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 32, 37 [finding that the
“Legislature intended to allow a buyer to recover the entire amount
actually expended for a new motor vehicle, including paid finance charges.”].)  Although Moving Defendant cites to federal
cases, the Court finds them to be persuasive in demonstrating that the service
contract and gap insurance should be viewed as non-manufacturer items which may
be deducted.  The Court notes that Section
1793.2’s remedial nature is designed to protect consumers and should be
construed to provide broad relief, however, Plaintiffs fail to show that the
service contracts and gap insurance were paid as part of the “actual price paid
or payable” for the Vehicle.
 
The
Court also finds that Moving Defendant did not fail to include reimbursement
for incidental damages.  Plaintiffs fail
to rebut Moving Defendant’s showing that the Offer properly included
reimbursement.  Moving Defendant asserts that
it offered to reimburse Plaintiffs’ initial fee, which was rolled into the
total sale price of the Vehicle.  (See Kirzhner
v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2020) 9 Cal.5th 966, 972 [“only the initial
registration fee paid at the time of the lease or purchase of the vehicle and
not any subsequent registration renewal or nonoperation fees are
recoverable”].)  Moving Defendants assert
that Plaintiffs were invited to ask Defendant about any such damages on several
occasions, to which they did not respond. 
Plaintiffs do not provide any sufficient evidence to rebut this.  Indeed, the only evidence Plaintiffs provide
regarding Moving Defendants’ failure to include reimbursement for incidental
damages is AMF No. 12, which states: “Defendant did not offer to reimburse for
insurance and registration expenses incurred. (Johal Decl., Ex. 2.);” however, this
statement fails to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether Moving Defendant’s
Offer was not appropriate.  Thus, Moving
Defendant sufficiently discharged its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act by
providing a valid Offer.
 
            Thus, the motion for summary adjudication as to issue 1,
breach of express warranty is GRANTED.
 
Issue No. 2: Breach of
Implied Warranty
            Moving Defendant states that Plaintiffs’ breach of
implied warranty claim cannot stand because Plaintiffs disregarded its
repurchase Offer and continued to use the Vehicle.  Moving Defendant points out that the Vehicle
was first brought in for repairs on August 21, 2020, and that a written
repurchase Offer was made on August 11, 2021, which Plaintiffs ignored, and
Plaintiffs chose instead to file this lawsuit. 
(UMF, Nos. 53, 57-64.)  Further,
despite the repairs, Moving Defendant argues that the Vehicle remains
reasonably suited for ordinary use, as evidenced by Plaintiffs’ continued use
of the Vehicle for years thereafter, including weekly use after filing this
lawsuit.  This continued use, Moving
Defendant argues, demonstrates that the Vehicle meets the criteria for being
reasonably suited for ordinary use as required for the satisfaction of an
implied warranty.  (UMF, No. 69.)  Finally, Moving Defendant notes that
Plaintiffs’ only ongoing complaint with the Vehicle is moderate
“trembling.”  (UMF, Nos. 67-68.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs assert that Moving Defendant’s argument for their
Song-Beverly claims based on its Offer of restitution does not apply to the
implied warranty claim because such a claim does not require the manufacturer
to provide a replacement or restitution as a precondition.  Unlike express warranty claims that necessitate
a reasonable number of repair attempts within 30 days before seeking
rescission, Plaintiffs point out that the implied warranty of merchantability
claim is concerned with fundamental defects and does not impose such a
requirement on the buyer.  (Civ. Code, §
1791.1; Isip v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 19, 26-27;
Mocek v. Alfa Leisure, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 402, 406-408; Brand
v. Hyundai Motor America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1538, 1545.)  
 
Plaintiffs
assert that the law distinguishes between express and implied warranties, with
Section 1793.2 specific to express warranties and irrelevant to implied
warranties of merchantability.  Thus, Plaintiffs
contend that Moving Defendant’s assertion that no breach of implied warranty
occurred due to the Plaintiffs’ continued use of the Vehicle does not negate
Song-Beverly rights or diminish damages (CACI 3230).  Moreover, Plaintiffs state that Moving
Defendant acknowledges the Vehicle’s persistent engine and transmission issues,
[UMF No. 7, 10, 21, and 22], with Plaintiff Humberto Nunez affirming that these
problems were unresolved.  (AMF No.
17.)  Therefore, Plaintiffs conclude that
Moving Defendant has not demonstrated that there is no triable issue of fact as
to the breach of the implied warranty claim.
 
            In reply, Moving Defendant asserts that its Offer
provided restitution exceeding the potential damages from such a breach, making
Plaintiffs’ revocation moot.  Moving
Defendant asserts that for a full refund recovery under an alleged breach of
the implied warranty, the law provides that revocation of acceptance requires
specific buyer actions beyond those stated in section 1793.2 (d), including
timely action and before any substantial vehicle condition change.  (Gavaldon v. Daimler Chrysler Corp.
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 1246, 1264).  Moving
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs did not meet these criteria, by filing suit
two years post-purchase and after driving the Vehicle approximately 14,000
miles (UMF Nos. 1,11), which does not support a timely revocation for a full
refund based on an alleged breach of the implied warranty.  
 
Furthermore,
Moving Defendant asserts that the Vehicle is deemed fit for its ordinary
purposes without a breach of the implied warranty, supported by the fact that
Plaintiffs continued using the Vehicle. 
Moving Defendant states that their non-expert status (Evid. Code § 803)
and continued Vehicle use, including an option to disable the turbo to prevent
alleged “shaking,” indicate their claims about the Vehicle’s condition are
speculative and insufficient to establish a dispute of material fact for
summary judgment.  (Mukai Decl., Ex. 7 at
p. 18:1-6; p. 20:3-17; p. 21:5-8). 
Moving Defendant also states that the absence of third-party expert
testimony on the Vehicle’s functionality further undermines Plaintiffs’
position, aligning with the principle that speculation cannot establish a
material fact dispute in summary judgment proceedings.
 
Here,
the central issue is whether the vehicle’s continued use by Plaintiffs and
Moving Defendant’s offer of restitution negate the breach of implied warranty
claim.  Even though Plaintiffs’ continued use alone may not negate their
claim, the Court finds that Defendant’s Offer to repurchase negates Plaintiffs’
implied breach of warranty claim which came after the Offer.
 
The
Court finds that a repurchase Offer made in good faith and covering the full
value of the product may serve as a way to rectify any defects and adequately
compensate the consumer; however, if a defect becomes known after sale or
delivery, it may still provide grounds for an implied warranty claim.  “[A] breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability may be based on a defect which becomes known after a sale or
delivery to a buyer.”  (Jones v.
Credit Auto Center, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 9.)  Here, Plaintiffs allege the same defect that
was covered in the repurchase Offer.  The
defect in this case does not cover new defects that were not addressed in the
Offer.  The Court finds that the Offer to
repurchase sufficiently addressed the defects that form the basis of Plaintiffs’
warranty claim.  In essence, Moving Defendant
acknowledged the existence of the issue and took steps to resolve it by
proposing to take back the Vehicle in exchange for compensation reflective of
its original value.  
 
Thus,
the motion for summary adjudication as to issue 2, breach of implied warranty
is GRANTED.
 
Issue No. 3: Violation of
Song-Beverly Section 1793.2
Moving
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s claim for violation of Song-Beverly Section
1793.2 cannot stand because Plaintiffs failed to respond to its Offer.  Moving Defendant references the requirement
for manufacturers to provide service and repair facilities reasonably close to
where their consumer goods are sold and to commence service and repair within a
reasonable time.  Moving Defendant assert
it attempted to comply with Section 1793.2 by offering to replace or reimburse
the Vehicle, but Plaintiffs did not respond, undermining their Section 1793.2
cause of action.  Moving Defendant emphasizes
that it did not have sufficient attempts to address and assess the Vehicle
before Plaintiffs requested repurchase, given the request came shortly after
the vehicle’s engine was replaced in August 2020 and after minimal repair
attempts.  (UMF, Nos. 70-92, 75-80.)  Moving Defendant argues that any delay in
servicing the Vehicle or assessing Plaintiffs’ claims for the purpose of making
a repurchase Offer was due to the COVID-19 pandemic—a reason “beyond the
control of the manufacturer or its representatives” as provided by Section
1793.2(d)(1).  Moving Defendant state
that the pandemic affected its business operations, including the automotive
parts supply chain, and directly influenced the response time for servicing the
Vehicle and making the repurchase offer. (UMF, No. 93.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs challenge Moving Defendant’s argument that it fulfilled
its obligations under Song-Beverly through a conditional Offer letter on the
grounds that it did not disclose all material terms, including the release
agreement.  Plaintiffs argue this
omission is contrary to Song-Beverly’s consumer protection intent and lacks
transparency necessary for a valid offer under contract law.  Plaintiffs cite to Campbell-Ewald Co. v.
Gomez (2016) 577 U.S. 153, in which the U.S. Supreme Court emphasized that
an unaccepted offer does not moot a plaintiff’s case, further underscoring the
necessity for actual restitution or replacement by the manufacturer when a
vehicle cannot be repaired within a reasonable number of attempts as per Civil
Code § 1793.2(d)(2).  Plaintiffs point
out Moving Defendant’s denial of the Vehicle’s qualification for repurchase and
revocation of the Offer, maintaining that an offer’s validity does not negate
the manufacturer’s duty to comply with Song-Beverly’s mandatory repurchase or
replacement requirement.  (AMF No.
11.)  
 
Plaintiffs
assert that the Vehicle’s eligibility for repurchase or replacement is a
separate matter from the availability of civil penalties for willful
non-compliance with Song-Beverly.  They
argue that Moving Defendant’s reliance on Dominguez v. American Suzuki Motor
Corp. is misplaced due to differences in statutory application, the nature
of the vehicle involved, and the circumstances surrounding the lawsuit and the
offer’s conditions.  Unlike in Dominguez,
where the dispute did not center on the compliance with the Song-Beverly Act’s
repurchase or replacement provisions, Plaintiffs in this case state that they
seek to enforce Moving Defendant’s compliance following its failure to provide
appropriate restitution without improper conditions and its subsequent denial
of all liability.  Plaintiffs contend
that Defendant’s Motion should be denied as it attempts to reinterpret
Song-Beverly in a manner that undermines consumer protections.  (AMF No. 16.) 
 
            Further, Plaintiffs state that Moving Defendant’s
justification for the delay in engine replacement during the thirty-two-day
repair period in August 2020, attributed to the COVID-19 pandemic, lacks
evidentiary support.  They argue that Moving
Defendant did not fulfill its legal obligation to conduct timely repairs within
30 days as required by Civil Code Section 1793.2, subd. (b) and CACI 3205, due
to not providing concrete evidence that the delay was caused by
pandemic-related supply chain issues specific to the parts needed for
Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  (UMF No. 93.)  Plaintiffs point out that the absence of
detailed information about how the COVID-19 pandemic directly impacted the
availability of necessary parts for the repair leads Plaintiffs to conclude
that Moving Defendant has not satisfactorily demonstrated that the delay was
due to circumstances beyond its control, failing to meet its initial burden of
proof.
 
In
reply, Moving Defendant states that whether any delay in repairs happened in
this case is irrelevant where Plaintiffs effectively ignored Moving Defendant’s
repurchase Offer, as discussed above.  Moving
Defendant also states that there is no serious dispute that COVID-19 impacted Moving
Defendant’s business and the service of KA Vehicles.  (See UMF, Nos. 93 and 94.)  While Plaintiffs dispute the impact of
COVID-19, Moving Defendant points out that Plaintiffs do not present any
evidence to rebut this showing.  
 
            For the reasons discussed above, the Court finds that the
Offer was not improper and that Moving Defendant fulfilled its Song-Beverly
obligations.  Thus, Plaintiffs’ failure
to respond to the Offer forecloses their section 1793.2 claims.  Further, the undisputed facts show that
COVID-19 impacted Moving Defendant’s business and the service of its
Vehicles.  (UMF, Nos. 93 and 94.)  Plaintiffs on the other hand, fail to present
any evidence to rebut this showing. 
 
Thus,
the motion for summary adjudication as to issue 3, Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2 is GRANTED.
 
Issue Nos. 4 and 5: Civil
Penalty Claim and Attorneys’ Fees
As
to the civil penalty claim, Defendant states that its participation in a
qualified third-party dispute resolution process precludes liability for civil
penalties under Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (e)(2).  Defendant states it participates in the Better
Business Bureau (BBB) Autoline Program, compliant with California regulations
for state certification, thus, meeting the statutory requirements and
precluding liability for civil penalties as outlined by Civil Code section
1794, subdivision (e)(2).  (UMF, No. 118.)
 Defendant disputes any willful violation
of Song-Beverly, highlighting its prompt offer to repurchase or replace the Vehicle
just thirteen days after Plaintiffs requested a buy-back, which contradicts
Plaintiffs’ claim for civil penalties through either means provided in Civil
Code section 1794, subdivisions (e) and (c).  (UMF, Nos. 105-112.)  Defendant argues that a violation is not
willful if the manufacturer’s failure to replace or refund was based on a good
faith and reasonable belief.  Defendant’s
offer to replace or repurchase the Vehicle, which was not accepted by
Plaintiffs, is presented as evidence of its good faith and lack of willfulness.
 
As
to attorneys’ fees, Defendant argues that the legislation does not
automatically entitle consumers to attorneys’ fees whenever a manufacturer
repurchases or replaces consumer goods, irrespective of litigation status.  (Dominguez v. American Suzuki Motor Corp. (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 53, 59-60).  Defendant
contends that it complied with Song-Beverly before this lawsuit was filed, thus
preventing Plaintiffs from being the “prevailing party” necessary for
recovering attorneys’ fees.  (UMF, Nos.
119-141.)  The lawsuit, according to
Defendant, was tactically filed for fee recovery and civil penalties, not based
on Defendant’s failure to comply with its obligations.  Furthermore, Defendant points out that
pursuing litigation merely to obtain fees or penalties does not warrant an
award of attorneys’ fees as per Dominguez, supra.  Since Defendant had already made a repurchase
Offer before litigation—which Plaintiffs refused—the request for attorneys’
fees is deemed inequitable and unjustified, especially since Defendant is still
willing to honor its initial repurchase offer made in 2021. (UMF, No.
137.)  Therefore, Defendant asserts that
any attorneys’ fees and costs claimed by Plaintiffs cannot be considered
reasonable or necessary, justifying summary adjudication of this claim in its
favor.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication
on the civil penalty and attorneys’ fee liability is not authorized by Code of
Civil Procedure Section 437c, subd. (f), which only allows a party to move for
summary adjudication on specific components of a case, such as causes of
action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, only if
doing so would completely resolve one of these elements.  Plaintiffs state that this section aims to
prevent partial adjudications that do not fully resolve any of these
categories, and that the term “cause of action” refers to separate theories of
liability reflected in a complaint’s grouped paragraphs.  Plaintiffs state that summary adjudication on
“claims for damages” under this provision is restricted to claims for punitive
damages as specified in Civil Code § 3294.  Since Plaintiffs are not seeking punitive
damages under Civil Code § 3294, they claim that Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication on civil penalties and attorneys’ fees is not legally permissible.
 Additionally, for adjudication on
narrower issues or other types of damages, Plaintiffs point out that section
437c, subd. (t) requires a joint stipulation and court authorization,
procedures Defendant has not followed. 
 
In
reply, Defendant asserts that Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(f)(1) allows a party to move for summary adjudication on claims for damages if
there is no merit to such claims, specifically referring to those for punitive
damages as outlined in Civil Code Section 3294. 
Defendant argues that the civil penalty under Song Beverly is comparable
to punitive damages due to their shared purpose of punishment and deterrence,
that there are cases which interpret civil penalties as being akin to punitive
damages and that if the Legislature intended to allow double recovery for
punitive and penal damages for the same acts, it would have made such
provisions clear.  As a result, Defendant
states that seeking civil penalties and attorneys’ fees under Song-Beverly may
imply a waiver of punitive damages under section 3294.
 
Civil
Code section1794 subdivision (e)(1) states: “Except as otherwise provided in
this subdivision, if the buyer establishes a violation of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2, the buyer shall recover damages and
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, and may recover a civil penalty of up to
two times the amount of damages.”  Section
1793.2 provides for Song-Beverly claims, which the Court finds to fail as a
matter of law.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
claims for civil penalties and attorney’s fees cannot stand. 
 
Thus,
the motion for summary adjudication as to issue nos. 4 and 5: Civil Penalty
Claim and Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED.
 
            In light of the foregoing, the motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        
Dated this 16th day of May 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 





