  Case Number:  23PSCV00781    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Zanay  Herrera v. Starbucks Corporation, et al.  La  Verne Commons LLC’s Motion to Set Aside Default  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant La Verne Commons LLC’s motion to set  aside the default. The default entered against Defendant La Verne Commons LLC  on October 25, 2023, is hereby VACATED. Defendant La Verne Commons LLC must  file and serve its proposed answer to the complaint within five days of the  Court’s order.              Defendant La Verne Commons LLC is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is a  premises liability action. On March 15, 2023, plaintiff Zanay Herrera  (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Starbucks Corporation, The  Vons Companies, Inc. (Vons), Albertsons Companies, Inc., Cerberus Capital  Mangement [sic] LP, La Verne Commons LLC (La Verne Commons)  (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for  premises liability and general negligence. On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff  filed a Doe amendment, naming Combined Properties, Inc. (Combined Properties)  as a defendant.  On March  5, 2024, Combined Properties filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1 through 25,  alleging causes of action for breach of written contract, express indemnity,  total equitable indemnity, partial equitable indemnity, contribution and  repayment, declaratory relief re duty to defend, declaratory relief re duty to  indemnify, breach of written contract – additional insurance, and negligence.  On April 23, 2024, La Verne Commons moved to set aside the default  entered against it on October 25, 2023. On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the  motion. On May 13, 2024, La Verne Commons replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Under Code of Civil Procedure, section  473, subdivision (b), “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a  party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or  other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., §473(b)).  Relief under this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of  fault; otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) An application for relief  must be made no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief  is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the  moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §  473, subd. (b); English v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94  Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) When relief from default and a default judgment is based  on an attorney affidavit of fault, the six-month period starts to run from the  date of the entry of the default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, sub. (b); Sugasawara  v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 295.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  La Verne Commons moves to set aside the default based on  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. La Verne Commons contends that  the proof of service states that Plaintiff served the summons and complaint on  its agent for service of process on September 1, 2023. La Verne Commons  indicates that it informed its carrier about this action on February 12, 2024,  and that its carrier subsequently retained counsel for La Verne Commons on  February 14, 2024. La Verne Commons contends the purported service of process on  September 1, 2023 was defective because La Verne Commons had previously  terminated as a business entity on January 23, 2023, and that service should  have instead been performed on La Verne Common’s managing member or La Verne  Commons Manager, Inc. La Verne Commons further indicates that it requested  Plaintiff to stipulate to setting aside the default, but to no avail.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends the complaint was served on La  Verne Commons and that default was entered against La Verne Commons on October  25, 2023. Plaintiff contends that Defendant Vons deposed Plaintiff on January  17, 2024, but neither Combined Properties nor La Verne Commons attended the  deposition. Plaintiff then contends to have met and conferred with La Verne  Commons and offered reasonable terms in exchange for lifting the default, but  La Verne Commons ignored Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts and filed this  motion instead. Plaintiff further contends the Court should impose sanctions  for La Verne Commons filing this frivolous motion and failing to meet and  confer in good faith.  Timeliness  Default was entered against La Verne Commons on October  25, 2023. (Request for Entry of Default (10/25/23).) La Verne Commons moved to  set aside the default on April 23, 2024, which is within the six-month time  limit of Code of Civil Procedure section 437, subdivision (b). (Code Civ.  Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Thus, the motion is timely. The Court further finds that La Verne Commons' counsel moved promptly to seek this relief within two months after learning of the default and within one month of discussions with Plaintiff's counsel regarding relief from default. Analysis  “’Because the law strongly favors  trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be  resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default [citations].’  [Citation.]” (Grappo v. McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996,  1005-1006.)   Here, La Verne Commons is not entitled to mandatory  relief because the motion does not include an accompanying attorney affidavit  of fault or any indication that La Verne Commons’ counsel was the reason the  default was entered. (See generally, Sandler Decl.) La Verne Commons’ counsel  indicates it is unclear why La Verne Commons did not notify its carrier of this  action immediately upon receipt, so there does not seem to be any evidence of  mistake. (Sandler Decl., ¶ 7.) The Court also is not persuaded that service on La  Verne Commons’ agent for service of process after La Verne Commons’ termination  as a business entity renders that service defective. Corporations Code section 2011,  subdivision (b), specifically permits service on any agent upon whom service of  process might be served at the time of dissolution, if the officer, director,  or person having charge of its assets cannot be found. (Corp. Code, § 2011,  subd. (b); see also § 17707.07, subd. (b).)  Nevertheless, “[Code of Civil Procedure section 473] is  often applied liberally where the party in default moves promptly to seek  relief, and the party opposing the motion will not suffer prejudice if relief  is granted. [Citations.] In such situations ‘very slight evidence will be  required to justify a court in setting aside the default.’ [Citations.]” (Grappo,  supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 1005.) La Verne Commons promptly sought for relief  by timely filing this motion. Plaintiff’s opposition also provides no evidence  of prejudice if the relief is granted. The Court further notes that Plaintiff’s  opposition does not respond to La Verne Commons’ substantive arguments, which  the Court construes as a tacit admission that La Verne Commons’ arguments are  meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410;  C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) The Court finds La Verne Commons is a terminated business entity. The Court further finds that the  Summons and Complaint was served on the agent for service of process, and not a  member or managing member of La Verne Commons. Finally, the Court finds the  delay in responding to the Complaint was the result of inadvertence or excusable  neglect, and thereby warrants setting aside the default.  As for monetary sanctions, none of the evidence shows  that La Verne Commons acted in bad faith by bringing this motion. La Verne  Commons made clear that Plaintiff refused to stipulate to setting aside the  default unless it acceded to Plaintiff’s conditions. (Sandler Decl., ¶¶ 13-14.)  La Verne Commons was not obligated to accede to those conditions in exchange  for setting aside the default. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) It is also  unclear how La Verne Commons’ or Combined Properties’ failure to attend Von’s  deposition of Plaintiff on January 17, 2024 in any way is evidence of bad faith  or weighs against setting aside the default. Thus, the Court declines to impose  any such penalties against La Verne Commons.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS La Verne Commons’ motion  to set aside the default.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant La Verne Commons LLC’s motion to set  aside the default. The default entered against Defendant La Verne Commons LLC  on October 25, 2023, is hereby VACATED. Defendant La Verne Commons LLC must  file and serve its proposed answer to the complaint within five days of the  Court’s order.              Defendant La Verne Commons LLC is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.