 Case Number:  23PSCV02810    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Tricia Liu v. Louie Angel David  Feria  Plaintiff’s Motion to Reconsider  TENTATIVE RULING  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to reconsider.               The  clerk will give notice of this ruling.  BACKGROUND  This  is a landlord/tenant dispute. On September 14, 2023, plaintiff Tricia Liu (Plaintiff)  filed this action against defendant Louie Angel David Feria aka David Feria aka  Louie Angel Feria  (Defendant), alleging  the sole cause of action for unlawful detainer. On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff  obtained a default judgment by Clerk for possession of the premises. On January  10, 2024, Plaintiff obtained possession of the premises. (See Writ Return,  filed 2/2/24.) On March 7, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s request for  default judgment by Court as to money damages, without prejudice to Plaintiff  seeking to recover such damages in a separate civil action.  On  April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to reconsider the Court’s March 7, 2024  ruling denying Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment by Court. The  motion is unopposed.  LEGAL STANDARD  When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or  to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted  conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days  after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based  upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the  same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,  amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state  by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what  order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,  or law are claimed to be shown.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.  (a).)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff’s  Arguments              Plaintiff  asks the Court to reconsider its prior ruling issued on March 7, 2024, in which  the Court denied Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment by Court without  prejudice to Plaintiff seeking to recover damages in a separate civil action.  Plaintiff contends Defendant is a professional renter who has had a series of  prior unlawful detainer matters at other properties throughout Los Angeles  county, and that the courts have failed to address this repeated pattern of  lawbreaking. Plaintiff contends refiling this action as a separate civil case  would be burdensome to her, and that Defendant lacks assets for creditors to  satisfy court orders. Plaintiff contends she followed the e-Court instructions  for filing an unconditional eviction.              Plaintiff  then contends the Court’s denial of the request for entry of default judgment  overlooks clear evidence of nuisance eviction and reckless endangerment by the  tenant, despite the photographic evidence Plaintiff provided. Plaintiff  contends the Court’s decision fails to address these issues, which pose a  significant risk to public safety, and that denying Plaintiff’s request will  incentivize Defendant to repeat these offenses. Plaintiff contends Defendant’s  failure to respond to the complaint warrants the default judgment relief  requested.              Plaintiff  further contends to have provided the documents missing from the request for  entry of default judgment, and that the Court focused on legal formalities at  the expense of the issues posed by the Defendant’s actions.  Procedural  Issues  The Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion is  untimely. The Court gave notice of its ruling regarding Plaintiff’s request for  entry of default on March 7, 2024. (Certificate of Mailing (3/7/24).) Plaintiff  did not file this motion until April 2, 2024, which is more than 10 days after  the Court ruled on Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment. This  alone deprives the Court of the jurisdiction to consider Plaintiff’s motion.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subds. (a), (e); Garcia v. Hejmadi  (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 691 [“superior court lacked jurisdiction to  reconsider the grant of summary judgment, enter a new order and proceed with  trial.”]) Plaintiff also failed to provide a declaration stating what  application was made previously, “when and to what judge the application was  made, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,  circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.  (a).)  Substantive  Issues  A motion for  reconsideration is not an opportunity to rehash or expand arguments previously  made. (Lennar Homes of California, Inc. v. Stephens (2014) 232  Cal.App.4th 673, 682 fn. 7.) Even if the Court had jurisdiction to consider the  motion – which it does not have--, the Court would deny the motion.  Plaintiff did  not present any new or different facts, circumstances, or law, or any  explanation as to why Plaintiff could not have shown these things to the Court  before it ruled on Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment. (See Code  Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) Instead, Plaintiff appears only to be rehashing  and rearguing her prior request for entry of default judgment, which is not a  proper basis for a motion to reconsider. (See Lennar Homes of California,  Inc., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 682 fn. 7.)  Moreover,  while Defendant’s purported history of unlawful detainer disputes is  unfortunate, those other disputes are neither relevant to this case, nor do  they absolve Plaintiff of her obligations to comply with the strict statutory  requirements for an unlawful detainer action. (See Kwok v. Bergren (1982)  130 Cal.App.3d 596, 600 [“The [unlawful detainer] statutory procedure must be  strictly followed. [Citations.]”]) The Court set forth in great detail  Plaintiff’s failures to comply with the requirements for an unlawful detainer action  and the reasons why Plaintiff’s only other option at this point is to pursue a  separate civil suit. (See Order Re: Tentative Ruling (3/7/24).) The fact that  filing a separate civil suit would be costly and burdensome to Plaintiff does  not permit this Court to set aside the strict requirements and limitations of  an unlawful detainer action.  Furthermore,  the documents provided with Plaintiff’s motion do not resolve all of the  defects set forth in the Court’s March 7, 2024 order. (See Order Re: Tentative  Ruling (3/7/24).) Either way, the Notices to Pay Rent or Quit failed to comply  with Code of Civil Procedure section 1161, subdivision (2). (See Id.) Finally,  if Plaintiff is concerned that Defendant lacks assets from which she can  recover against, then that is for Plaintiff to determine whether pursuing  Defendant will be worthwhile.  Based  on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to reconsider.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to reconsider.               The  clerk will give notice of this ruling.