  Case Number:  23STCV07579    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   January14,
2025                                              
 
CASE NAME:           Jonathan
Alvarez, et al. v. General Motors, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV07579





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT


 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
General Motors LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Jonathan Alvarez and
Maria Concepcion Alvarez
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Summary
Judgment on all Causes of Action in the Complaint in favor of Defendant General
Motors LLC.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 6, 2023, Plaintiff Jonathan Alvarez and Maria
Concepcion Alvarez (Plaintiffs) filed a Song-Beverly Complaint against
Defendant General Motors LLC with causes of action for: (1) Violation of Civil
Code Sec. 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code Sec. 1793.2(b); (3) Violation
of Civil Code Sec. 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability; and (5) Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiffs purchased a 2019
Chevrolet Silverado VIN 2GCRCPEC0K1122214 (the Vehicle) that was manufactured
by Defendant. Plaintiffs further allege they entered a warranty contract with
Defendant, that the Vehicle was defective, and that Defendant failed to replace
or reimburse Plaintiffs.
 
On May 8, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer.
 
On April 26, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for
Summary Judgment (MSJ). On November 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
On November 25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
A motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c(c).) 
 
A party may also bring a noticed motion for summary
adjudication that one or more causes of action has no merit. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty. (Ibid.)
A motion for summary adjudication proceeds in all procedural respects as a
motion for summary judgment. (Id. at
(f)(2).)  
 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1)
one or more elements of the cause of actions cannot be established, or (2) a
complete affirmative defense to the cause of action exists. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(o), (p)(2).) A defendant may demonstrate that an element of a cause of
action cannot be established by showing that the plaintiff does not possess,
and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854,¿as modified (July 11, 2001).) 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849,¿as modified (July 11, 2001).) The
plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, must “set forth
the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) A triable issue of material fact exists if the evidence
would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of
the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof. (Id. at 850.)  
 
In ruling on a motion for summary judgment or adjudication,
the court considers all the evidence and all the inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom and must view such evidence in the light most favorable to the
opposing party. (See Id. at 843; All of US or None - Riverside Chapter v.
Hamrick¿(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 751, 783,¿reh'g
denied (June 17, 2021), review denied (Sept. 1, 2021).) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The court OVERRULES Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections to
the extent they challenge the authentication of the exhibits. The court SUSTAINS
the objections as they relate to the additional commentary offered by Jensen.
The documents speak for themselves.
 
Summary Judgment
 
Defendant contends that summary judgment in their favor is
warranted because it is undisputed that Plaintiffs purchased a used vehicle
without new or additional warranty coverage by Defendant. As such, Plaintiffs
cannot establish an essential element for their first through third causes of
action which also impacts Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action. Defendant further
contends that Plaintiffs cannot establish that Defendant was a distributor or
retail seller rather than just the manufacturer so their fourth cause of action
fails, too. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that
Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 17
Cal.5th 189 (Rodriguez) does not
affect their Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action. Additionally,
Plaintiffs argue there are triable issues of fact as to whether Defendant
partnered with the dealership that sold the Vehicle to Plaintiffs. Finally,
Plaintiffs argue there is a triable issue of fact for their First Cause of
Action whether they were the first individual consumers of the Vehicle.
 
Defendant replies that Plaintiff did not actually dispute
the material facts presented in the Separate Statement and their legal argument
to reclassify themselves as the first buyer is unsupported by the law.
 
Material Facts –
Procedural Adequacy of Separate Statement
 
As a procedural issue, Plaintiffs’ responsive separate
statement does not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(2).
While Plaintiffs have disputed many of Defendant’s material facts, Plaintiffs’
responses fail to actually provide the nature of the dispute. Instead,
Plaintiffs’ responses either amount to legal conclusion or legal argument.
Thus, because these responses insufficiently prove the nature of the dispute,
the court finds that the following material facts are undisputed:
1.      “Plaintiffs
were not the Silverado’s original owners.” (UMF No. 4.)
2.      “Rydell
Chevrolet delivered the Silverado to its original owner on September 7, 2018,
with 9 miles on its odometer.” (UMF No. 5.)
3.      “In
connection with that delivery to the Silverado’s original owner, GM issued a
New Vehicle Limited Warranty with bumper-to-bumper coverage for the earlier of
48 months or 50,000 miles and powertrain coverage for the earlier of 72 months
or 70,000 miles.” (UMF No. 6.)
4.      “The
Warranty’s coverage began when Rydell Chevroleet delivered the Silverado to its
original owner on September 7, 2018.” (UMF No. 7.)[1]
5.      “Importantly,
GM did not issue or provide any new or additional warranty coverage to
Plaintiffs or the vehicle when Maria Concepcion Alvarez bought the Silverado
used in July 2019; Plaintiffs received only the balance of coverage under the
Warranty that GM issued back in September 7, 2018.” (UMF No. 8.)
First Cause of
Action – Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2(d)
 
“The Song–Beverly Act is a remedial statute designed to
protect consumers who have purchased products covered by an express
warranty.”  (Robertson v. Fleetwood
Travel Trailers of California, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 785, 798.) 
The Song-Beverly Act requires that “[e]very manufacturer of consumer goods sold
in this state and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty
shall: [¶] (1)(A) Maintain in this state sufficient service and repair
facilities reasonably close to all areas where its consumer goods are sold to
carry out the terms of those warranties or designate and authorize in this
state as service and repair facilities independent repair or service facilities
reasonably close to all areas where its consumer goods are sold to carry out the
terms of the warranties.”  (Civ. Code, § 1793.2(a).)  
 
For motor vehicles specifically, “[i]f the manufacturer or
its representative in this state is unable to service or repair a new motor
vehicle, as that term is defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of
Section 1793.22, to conform to the applicable express warranties after a
reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either promptly replace
the new motor vehicle in accordance with subparagraph (A) or promptly make
restitution to the buyer in accordance with subparagraph (B).”  (Civ.
Code, § 1793.2(d)(2) [bolding added].) 
 
“For new products, liability extends to the manufacturer;
for used products, liability extends to the distributor or retail seller and
not to the manufacturer, at least where the manufacturer has not issued a new
warranty or played a substantial role in the sale of a used good.” (Rodriguez, supra, at p. 202.) For
purposes of Civil Code section 1793.2(d), the term “‘[n]ew motor vehicle’ means
a new motor vehicle that is bought or used primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes. ‘New motor vehicle’ also means a new motor vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight under 10,000 pounds that is bought or used primarily for
business purposes by a person, including a partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, association, or any other legal entity, to which not more
than five motor vehicles are registered in this state.” (Civ. Code, §
1793.22(e)(2).) “[O]ther motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty” means “a vehicle for which a manufacturer’s new car warranty is
issued with the sale.” (Rodriguez, supra,
at p. 206.) Under Song-Beverly, a manufacturer is “generally off the hook”
for used vehicles. (Kiluk v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 339.)
 
Here, Defendant met their burden that there is no triable
issue of fact that Plaintiffs are not entitled to Song-Beverly protections.
First, it is undisputed that the Vehicle is used. (UMF No. 2.) Second, it is
undisputed that Defendant did not issue a new or additional warranty to
Plaintiffs. (UMF No. 8.) Therefore, Defendant met its burden. Plaintiffs, in
turn, did not meet theirs. In fact, UMF No. 2 is unequivocally undisputed and,
as discussed above, Plaintiffs provided argument – not facts – concerning UMF
No. 8. The court declines to analyze Plaintiffs’ additional argument
challenging the verbiage of buyer.
 
What is more, Rodriguez
supports Defendant’s position – not Plaintiffs’. There, the plaintiff purchased
a “two-year-old car with over 55,000 miles on it” with an “unexpired
manufacturer’s new car warranty” that could not be repaired despite numerous
repair attempts. (Rodriguez, supra at
p. 195-196.) The Supreme Court held that the plaintiff’s car was not a new
motor vehicle. (Id. at p. 196.) Here,
like the plaintiffs in Rodriguez, Plaintiffs
bought the Vehicle used with 9,204 miles on it and Defendant did not issue a
new or additional warranty to Plaintiffs. (UMF Nos. 2, 8.) The Vehicle is
therefore not a new vehicle.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment as to the First Cause of Action.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2(b)
 
Civil Code section 1793(b) requires an authorized repair
facility to repair the goods to conform to the express warranties within 30
days.  (Civ. Code, § 1793.2(b).) However, this applies for vehicles
with an express warranty from the manufacturer. (Civ. Code § 1793.2(a).)
 
Here, Defendant met their burden. Notably, there is no
express warranty from Defendant to Plaintiff. (UMF No. 8.) As above, Plaintiff
did not meet their burden because they provided no facts.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment as to the Second Cause of Action.
 
Third Cause of
Action – Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2(a)(3)
 
Under Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3) (third
cause of action), the manufacturer must “[m]ake available to authorized service
and repair facilities sufficient service literature and replacement parts to
effect repairs during the express warranty period.”
 
For the same reasons articulated above, the court GRANTS
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment as to the Third Cause of Action.
 
Fourth Cause of
Action – Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability
 
“[E]very sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in
this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's and the retail seller's
implied warranty that the goods are merchantable.”  (Civ. Code, § 1792; see also Civ. Code, § 1791.1.)  “
‘“Consumer goods” means any new product
or part thereof that is used, bought, or leased for use primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes, except for clothing and consumables.’ (§ 1791,
italics added.)”  (Kiluk, supra,
at p. 339.)   
 
“The Song-Beverly Act provides similar remedies in the
context of the sale of used goods, except that the manufacturer is generally
off the hook: ‘Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (a) of Section
1791 defining consumer goods to mean “new” goods, the obligation of a
distributor or retail seller of used consumer goods in a sale in which an
express warranty is given shall be the same as that imposed on manufacturers
under this chapter except: [¶] (a) It shall be the obligation of the distributor
or retail seller making express warranties with respect to used consumer goods
(and not the original manufacturer, distributor, or retail seller making
express warranties with respect to such goods when new) to maintain sufficient
service and repair facilities within this state to carry out the terms of such
express warranties.’ (§ 1795.5, subd. (a).)”  (Kiluk, supra, at p.339.)  “[T]he assumption baked into section
1795.5 is that the manufacturer and the distributor/retailer are distinct
entities. Where the manufacturer sells directly to the public, however, it
takes on the role of a retailer.”  (Kiluk,
supra, at p.340.)  Thus, “in the sale of used consumer goods,
liability for breach of implied warranty lies with distributors and retailers,
not the manufacturer, where there is no evidence the manufacturer played any
role in the sale of the used car to plaintiff.”  (Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385,
398.)   
 
Here, Defendant met their burden that there are no triable
issues of material fact. First, as above, the Vehicle is used. (UMF No. 2.)
Second, Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle from Panda Motors Direct which is not
a GM-authorized dealership. (UMF No. 3.) The burden shifts. Plaintiffs did not
meet their burden. Indeed, Plaintiffs provided no additional facts that GM was
a retailer. Since the Vehicle was purchased by Plaintiffs as a used vehicle,
only the distributor/retailer can be liable for a breach of express
warranty.  (Nunez, supra, at p. 398.)
As such, summary judgment is proper.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment as to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
Fifth Cause of
Action – Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act
 
The failure to sate a state warranty claim under state law
constitutes a failure to state a claim under the MMA. (Daugherty v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
824, 832–33.) 
 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs’ causes of action forming the
basis for their Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act claim fail. As such, they cannot
maintain this claim as a matter of law.[2]
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment as to the Fifth Cause of Action.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              January 14, 2025                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


