  Case Number:  23SMCV01693    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Webb v. Pepperdine
University 
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01693
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to Amend Second Amended Complaint 
HEARING DATE:   3/7/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
If a party
wishes to amend a pleading after an answer has been filed, or after a demurrer
has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has
already amended the pleading as a matter of course, the party must obtain permission
from the court before amendment. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.) 
 
Motions
for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the
court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . ..” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP §
576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed
matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments
to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.”
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is
sought to add entirely new claims, the court may grant leave to amend if the
new claims are based on the same general set of facts, and the amendment will
not prejudice the opposing party. (Austin
v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596, 600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 [holding
trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of complaint,
which originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege retaliatory eviction
where the new claim was based on the same general set of facts].)
 
Although
denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party. (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the
amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical
evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [leave properly
denied where plaintiff sought leave on the eve of trial, nearly two years after
the complaint was originally filed and gave no explanation for the delay which
prejudiced defendant who did not discover or depose many of the witnesses who would
support the new allegations and had not marshaled evidence in opposition of the
new allegations].)
 
Procedurally,
a motion for leave to amend must state with particularity what allegations are
to be amended. Namely, it must state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted and/or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,
and line number. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).) The motion must be accompanied
by a declaration specifying: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).) The motion must also be
accompanied by the proposed amended pleading, numbered to differentiate it from
the prior pleadings or amendments. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(1).) It is within the
court’s discretion to require compliance with Rule 3.1324 before granting leave
to amend. (Hataishi v. First American Home Buyers Protection Corp. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1469.)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Breanna C. Webb moves for
leave to file a verified Third Amended Complaint (or Fourth Amended Complaint).
Defendant Pepperdine University opposes.
 
Principally, Plaintiff seeks leave to
add a new statutory cause of action under FEHA Government Code § 12940(h) for
failure to prevent discrimination/retaliation. Plaintiff does not explain the
basis of the amendment, i..e, when the facts giving rise to the new allegations
were discovered and why these amendments were not made earlier. Defendant correctly observes that
Plaintiff must have known about the facts underlying the proposed amendments,
since they rely on the same exact sets of facts. Plaintiff contends that she found
more evidence supporting the amendment but does not provide or explain such
evidence. Plaintiff only explains that during meet and confer efforts
regarding the SAC, Defendant noted that the SAC did not have a valid prayer as
required and objected to the inclusion of the additional cause of action. Plaintiff
argues that the proposed amendments seek to address Defendant’s concerns.
 
Despite these issues, Plaintiff’s
amendments do appear to be in the interest of justice. The Court is not
persuaded that the amendments would expand the scope of discovery such that
Defendant would be unduly prejudiced. The facts behind the new cause of action
are substantially identical to the prior alleged facts. The amendment only
expands on one legal theory based on the same set of facts. Defendant does not
explain what discovery it would have to conduct in response to these
amendments. (Onyemaobim Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) In addition, it is still early in the
litigation. Thus, even though there was delay in bringing this cause of action,
the Court sees no substantial prejudice in allowing amendment at this point.
Further, amendment to the operative SAC is necessary since it does not
have a proper prayer. This defect is cured by the proposed TAC.
 

Further, there is some confusion
over whether this would be the third or fourth amended complaint. On January 9,
2024, the Court granted 10 days’ leave following a sustained demurrer to the
FAC. Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint on January 19,
2024. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend to file
a TAC, along with the proposed TAC. Those motions were taken off-calendar and
the TAC was withdrawn. Then, this motion followed on January 31, 2024. Since
filing the SAC, Plaintiff has filed a withdrawn TAC and provides both a
proposed third and a fourth amended complaint. Considering this record, the
Court will treat the newly proposed pleading as a Third Amended Complaint, because
the TAC filed on January 25, 2024, was voluntarily withdrawn by Plaintiff and
the last properly filed complaint was the SAC. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is
GRANTED.
 
The Court is not inclined to grant
sanctions for the claimed 22 hours spent in relation to “this motion” including
preparing an answer and conducting discovery in this action. The Court does not
find this claim to be reasonable in time or scope. Counsel did not spend 22
hours opposing this motion. Defendant cites no conduct on the record which shows
that Plaintiff has committed any discovery violations regarding discovery which
would subject Plaintiff to sanctions. 