  Case Number:  21PSCV00620    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT TO ADD ALTER EGO AS AN
ADDITIONAL JUDGMENT DEBTOR is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
This is an unlawful detainer case. 
 
On July 30, 2023, Plaintiff Lee and Lee, LLC filed suit
against Defendant IFC Fulfillment Company, Inc. (“Defendant IFC”) for (1)
Non-payment of rent and (2) Incurable Breach. 
 
O August 17, 2021, HeavenStone Corporation (Defendant
“Heavenstone”) filed a ‘Prejudgment Claim of Right of Possession.’ 
 
On April 18, 2022, the court conducted a non-jury trial.
According to the minute order, “Court orders judgment entered for Plaintiff Lee
& Lee, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company against Defendant IFC
Fulfillment Company, Inc., a California Corporation and Defendant HeavenStone
Corporation on the Complaint filed by Lee & Lee, LLC, a California Limited
Liability Company on 07/30/2021 for past rent due in the amount of $164,627.40
and holdover damages $119,352.69 for a total of $283,980.09.” 
 
On September 8, 2022, Defendant Heavenstone filed a motion
to set aside void judgment. 
 
On October 11, 2022, according to the minute order on the
motion, “The Court verbally gives the party it's Tentative Ruling to deny the
motion. The motion is heard and argued. Counsel for plaintiff submits on the
Court's Tentative Ruling. The Court takes the Hearing on Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate Judgment (CCP 473) under submission.” 
 
On December 5, 2022, the court ruled on the motion to set
aside judgment. The minute order provides the following: “The Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate Judgment filed by HeavenStone Corporation on 09/08/2022 is Denied.
The Court lifts the stay ordered on 10/20/2022. The Judgment entered on
4/18/2022 is to stand.” 
 
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion.[1]
 
On October 30, 2023, Defendant IFC filed a substitution of
attorney. That same day, Defendants IFC and Heavenstone filed their opposition
to the instant motion. 
 
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Plaintiff brings forth the motion pursuant to CCP section
187. (Motion p. 4.) Section 187 states: “When jurisdiction is,
by the constitution or this code, or by any other statute, conferred on a court
or judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be
not specifically pointed out by this code or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this code.” Effectively, pursuant to section 187, “a trial court has
jurisdiction to modify a judgment to add additional judgment debtors.” (Motion
p. 4, citing McClellan v. Northridge Park Townhome Owners Ass’n, Inc. (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 746, 752.) 
 
“In order to prevail on a motion to add alter ego judgment
debtors, [the judgment creditor] must show that (1) the parties to be added as
judgment debtors had control of the underlying litigation and were virtually
represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and
ownership that the separate personalities of the judgment debtor and those
other parties no longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the
acts are treated as those of the entity alone.” (Motion p. 4, citing Relentless
Air Racing, LLC v. Airborne Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal. App.
4th 811, 815–816 (Relentless).)
 
Discussion
 
Despite judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against
HeavenStone, HeavenStone has made no attempt to pay any part of the
Judgment.  Effectively, Plaintiff moves
to add the name of Heavenstone Ranch Corp. (Defendant “Heavenstone Ranch”) as
an additional judgment debtor because Heavenstone Ranch “is, and at all times
material to Plaintiff’s case was, the alter ego of Defendant Heavenstone.”
(Motion p. 1:24-26.) In reaching its determination that Heavenstone Ranch is
the alter ego of the judgment debtor Heavenstone, Plaintiff argues the
following: 
 
-           
Both corporations are controlled by the same person-Jack Jie
Qin.  
-           
Both corporations have the same employees
-           
Both corporations have the same address
-           
Both were/are operated with integrated resources in pursuit
of a single business purpose. 
 
(Motion p. 5:1-5.) 
 
In opposition, Defendants take issue with the lack of
evidence, specifically arguing that the evidence should be excluded based upon
(1) Lack of Personal Knowledge; 2) Lack of Foundation; 3) Hearsay; 4)
Argumentative; 5) Evidence Code 352 (in some instances).[2] 
 
As a prefatory matter, Plaintiff interchanges between Heavenstone Ranch being
the dba of Heavenstone Corporation and it being the alter ego. The court is uncertain as to the exact theory at
issue. Moreover, alter egos are generally entities set up to provide a legal
shield for the individual person controlling the operation. Proving that
such a business entity is a mere cover or alter ego for the business owner
(here, that being Jack Jie Qin), that would allow Plaintiff to pierce the veil
of the corporation(s) to take away Jack Qin’s protection. Put plainly, it is
unclear how alter ego is at issue when the argument is not to amend the
judgment to name Jack Qin as a judgment debtor. 
 
Issue of the theory aside, the court determines that
Plaintiff has provided insufficient evidence of alter ego liability. While in
Reply Plaintiff may argue that “The court is not required to hold an
evidentiary hearing on a motion to amend a judgment but may rule on the motion
based solely on declarations and other written evidence,” the very cases
Plaintiff cites to, McCellan and Relentless, suggest that ample
evidence is required before making any such determination. (See McClellan,
supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at p. 755[“The record reflects abundant evidence to
support the trial court's determination that successor liability should attach
to Northridge Park as Peppertree's successor.”]; see Relentless, supra, 222
Cal.App.4th at p. 816 [“Those findings are supported by more than ample
evidence and are not challenged here.”].) 
 
Here, merely having the name “Heavenstone” in both entities’
names, having the same address, and creating the entities within one month of
each other are insufficient to find alter ego. In fact, contrary to Plaintiff’s
assertion that the two entities have the same employees, a copy of the Nevada
Secretary of State Business Entity Detail for Heavenstone Corporation (Motion,
Ex. B) and a copy of the California Secretary of State Business Entity Detail
for Heavenstone Ranch Corp. (Motion, Ex. C) do not provide information about
the employees (names, number, etc.) to draw such a conclusion. Moreover, while
Heavenstone Ranch’s information only provides the name of Jack Jie Qin,
Heavenstone’s business information provides the names of other individuals,
including Visman Jie Chow (treasurer and director) and Erik Treutlein (labeled
as “Individual with Authority to Act”). 
 
All in all, whereas the trial court in McClellan cited
to the “evidence of similarity of names, identity of directorate, purchase of
assets and offer of stock to the old shareholders at a nominal value” (id. at
p. 754) in holding that a successor corporation is a mere continuation and
hence liable for the acts of its predecessor, here such specifics as to
the assets and other features of the entities are not discussed. 
 
Therefore, there is an insufficient showing of a unity of
interest and ownership.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is denied without
prejudice.  


