  Case Number:  21STCV04367    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



EDWIN SARGENTI, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY OF LONG BEACH, ASM GLOBAL, and DOES 1 to
  100,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 21STCV04367
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT CITY OF LONG
  BEACH’S MOTION TO COMPEL 


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 23, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On March 22, 2021, Plaintiff Edwin Sargenti
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants City of Long Beach, ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC
(“Defendants”), and DOES 1 to 100, for (1) premises liability and (2) general
negligence. The FAC alleges on or about January 27, 2020, Plaintiff fell off a
lime scooter he was operating due to the hazardous condition of the sidewalk
negligently maintained by Defendants. 
          On September 27, 2023,
Defendant City of Long Beach filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint
(“FAXC”) against Defendant ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC; the
Grand Prix Association of Long Beach, LLC (“Cross-Defendants”); and ROES 1 through
30 for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) comparative indemnity, (3) declaratory
relief, (4) equitable apportionment of fault, and (5) contribution. 
          On September 15, 2023,
Defendant City of Long Beach filed the instant motion to compel compliance with
the deposition subpoena for production of business records to ASM Global
Convention Center Management, LLC. An opposition was due on January 10, 2024,
and as of January 16, 2024, no opposition has been filed. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
Furthermore, “[i]f a deponent fails to answer
any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (a).)
Additionally, “[t]his motion shall be made no
later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
III.       
MEET AND CONFER
The
motion is accompanied by the meet and confer declaration of Tania Ochoa as
required. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
IV.        
DISCUSSION
          Defendant seeks an order compelling
non-party witness ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC to provide
substantive responses and produce documents in compliance with Defendant’s
Deposition Subpoena for Business Records served on May 25, 2023. Defendant
argues it is entitled to engage in discovery because the subpoena directly
relates to the issues in this litigation: (1) communications regarding any
asphalt work performed at or near the location at any time before and including
the date of the incident; (2) communications regarding any asphalt work
performed at or near the location at any time from the date of the incident;
(3) communications regarding any landscaping work performed at or near the
location at any time before and including the date of the incident; (4)
communications regarding any landscaping work performed at or near the location
at any time from the date of the incident; (5) communications regarding any
barriers located at or near the location of the incident from five (5) years
prior to, and including the incident; (6) communications regarding any barriers
located at or near the location of the incident; and (7) any agreements between
ASM and he City which reference or reflect the location of the incident.
Defendant contends Plaintiff alleges that he fell off his electric scooter when
he avoided a large white barrier in his path on the sidewalk and struck an
asphalt patch located on the driveway portion of that sidewalk. Defendant
further contends Plaintiff alleges that a large amount of tree debris obscured
his view. Last, Defendant argues ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC
was contractually responsible for operating, maintaining, and controlling the
property directly connected to the incident location. 
          Here,
Defendant has shown that Plaintiff alleges his injuries are the result of the
subject incident. Furthermore, ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC did
not file an objection, motion to quash subpoena, or opposition to this instant
motion. Finally, ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC. Accordingly, the
motion to compel compliance with the deposition subpoena for production of business records to ASM Global
Convention Center Management, LLC is granted.
Request for Monetary Sanctions
          “” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.2, subd. (a).)
Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount
of $2,475.00 against ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC for (1) 5.0
hours preparing this motion; and (2) anticipation of 4.0 hours reviewing any
opposition, preparing reply papers, and appearing at the hearing at an hourly
rate of $275.00. ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC did not file an
opposition, so no reply was filed in this matter. Thus, the Court shall award
sanctions for (1) 5.0 hours preparing this motion and (2) 1.0 hour appearing
for the hearing.
Accordingly, Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions is granted in the amount of $1,650.00 = (6.0 hours) x ($275.00). 
V.          
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
motion to compel compliance with the deposition subpoena for production of business records to ASM Global
Convention Center Management, LLC is GRANTED.
Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is also GRANTED in the amount of $1,650.00 in
favor of Defendant and against ASM Global Convention Center Management, LLC. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee
  S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 