 Case Number:  22STCV30375    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



HAKOB TOROSYAN, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
INVITATION
  HOMES REALTY CALIFORNIA INC., and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV30375
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT AGAINST ARTUR GHAZARYANT


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  23, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This is a premises liability action
that arose from an accident on July 7, 2022. On September 16, 2022, Plaintiff
Hakob Torosyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Invitation
Homes Realty California Inc. and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for
general negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff later filed Doe amendments
naming Defendants THR California, LP and THR Property Management LP. Defendants
Invitation Homes Realty California Inc. (“Invitation Homes”), THR California,
LP, and THR Property Management LP are herein collectively referred to as
“Defendants”.
On December 26, 2023, Defendants filed
a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Artur Ghazaryant. On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. 
On January 16, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
(a) A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. 
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before
the court has set a date for trial.  
(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to
file any cross-complaint except one filed within
the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50.) 
 
A party who fails to plead a cause of
action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the
adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal
construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is
imposed on the trial court. A motion to file
a cross-complaint
at any time during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of
the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.
Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are
insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith. 
(Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendants seek leave of the Court to
file a cross-complaint against Artur Ghazaryant (“Artur”) in connection with
the underlying accident. Defendants contend they learned of Artur during
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, which revealed that Plaintiff was on the
subject property upon invitation of Artur. Artur was purportedly a tenant of
the subject property at the time of the accident. (Motion, Ex. 1, ¶2.)
Defendants contend good cause exists to allow them to pursue their
cross-complaint against Artur since their claims arise out of the same
transaction or occurrence as Plaintiff’s complaint, it would be in the
interests of justice and judicial economy, and no prejudice will result.
In opposition, Plaintiff contends there
has been no discovery of any new facts justifying leave to file a
cross-complaint and that such facts regarding Artur were known at the outset.
Plaintiff contends Defendants’ time to file the cross-complaint was at the time
of the answer almost two years ago, not three months before trial. Plaintiff
argues granting Defendants’ motion would only delay adjudication. Plaintiff
further argues that Artur’s invitation to Plaintiff does not affect the outcome
of this action either.
While the Court finds Defendants’
motion wanting in some respects, the Court does not find those deficiencies
sufficient to justify denying their motion. Defendants fail to explain why they
waited four months after deposing Plaintiff before seeking leave to file the
proposed Cross-Complaint, especially less than three months before trial.
However, the Court notes that Plaintiff
fails to provide any evidence to support the argument that Defendants were
aware of Artur from the outset of this action. Moreover, the policy favoring
adjudication of the entire action is sufficiently strong to warrant granting
Defendants leave to amend. (See Silver Organizations Ltd., supra, 217
Cal.App.3d at pp. 98-99.) The Court also finds Plaintiff’s arguments about the
relevance of Artur inviting Plaintiff onto the subject property to be unpersuasive.
That goes to the issue of whether Defendants can state a claim against Artur,
which the Court declines to address here, especially since that would be an
argument for Artur to raise, not Plaintiff.
Furthermore, contrary to Plaintiff’s
opposition, Defendant THR California, LP filed its Answer on December 29, 2022,
and Defendant THR Property Management LP filed its Answer just a few months ago
on October 9, 2023. Both of these dates are much less than the two years
Plaintiff claims in the opposition.
Finally, an even bigger issue here is
that Defendant Invitation Homes still has not filed an Answer to the Complaint.
The Court’s records contain no Answer from Defendant Invitation Homes. Accordingly,
Invitation Homes technically does not even need permission from the Court to
obtain leave to file a cross-complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.50, subd.
(a).) Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint against Artur Ghazaryant.
The Court acknowledges that trial is
only two months away at this point, which would be insufficient time for
Defendants to serve Artur and conduct discovery. Thus, the Court will on its
own motion advance and vacate the current trial and final status conference
dates. The Court will discuss new trial related dates at the hearing on this
motion.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint against Artur Ghazaryant.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 