 Case Number:  22STCV28122    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MICHAEL WILLIAM WILSON, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CLAYTON
  DAMIAN FISCHER, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV28122
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL A FURTHER RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSION;
  REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  23, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Michael William Wilson (“Plaintiff”)

RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Southwark Metal Manufacturing (“Southwark”)

 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on July 21,
2022. On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff Michael William Wilson (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants Clayton Damian Fischer (“Fischer”), Southwark
Metal Manufacturing (“Southwark”), and Does 1 through 100 alleging causes of
action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence, (2) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, (3) Negligent Entrustment, and (4) Negligent Hiring. The
complaint alleges that Defendant Fischer, who is an employee of Defendant
Southwark, was driving under the influence of alcohol when he collided with
Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-10.) 
On
October 12, 2022, Defendant Southwark filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1
through 20 alleging causes of action for equitable indemnity, contribution,
express indemnity and declaratory relief. 
          On November
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a motion to compel Defendant Southwark to
provide a further response to Plaintiff’s request for admission, set one,
number 4 (“RFA 4”) and for monetary sanctions against Defendant Southwark and
its counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $2,860.00.[1]
On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff also filed a separate statement in support of
the motion. Plaintiff requests further responses and monetary sanctions within five
calendar days of the hearing. 
          On November
17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence, (2) Negligent
Entrustment, and (3) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision. 
          On December
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended notice of motion and motion to compel
Plaintiff’s further response to RFA 4. On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff also
filed an amended separate statement. Such filings were served on Defendant
Southwark on December 4, 2023. The Court will treat the amended motion filed on
December 6, 2023 as the operative moving papers. Initially, the Court notes
that the challenged RFA 4 is only set forth in the separate statement and
memorandum of points and authorities. Plaintiff did not provide the Court with
Defendant Southwark’s response to RFA 4 as an exhibit in support of the motion.
The Court, however, will assess such response as it is before the Court.  
          On January 4,
2024, Defendant Southwark filed an ex parte application to continue the
hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Southwark’s further response
to RFA 4. The ex parte motion contains an opposition to the motion as an
exhibit and therefore it is before the Court. Defendant Southwark should have
filed a separate opposition—one that was not included as part of its ex
parte application—however, the Court will consider such opposition as it is
before the Court, albeit not in a very convenient and clear way (in fact, as
noted below, Plaintiff was so unsure whether Defendant had filed an opposition,
he filed a document indicating that Defendant had not filed an opposition). 
          On January 5,
2024, the Court granted Defendant Southwark’s ex parte application and
continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response to RFA
4 to January 16, 2024. 
          On January
16, 2024, Defendant Southwark filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s notice of
non-opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFA 4. Such
opposition states that Defendant Southwark’s opposition to the motion was filed
as part of its January 5, 2024 ex parte application. 
          Also, on
January 16, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to RFA 4 to January 23, 2024. 
          On January
17, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served a reply brief.  
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD 
          Under Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010, “any party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) 
          In
responding to a request for admission, “[e]ach answer in a response . . . shall
be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to
the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (a).) Each
answer to a request for admission must: (1) admit so much of the matter
involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself
or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party; (2) deny so
much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue; or (3) specify so much
of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the responding
party lacks sufficient information or knowledge. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220,
subd. (b)(1)-(3).) 
          “If
a responding party gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a
failure to admit all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state
in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular
request has been made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is
insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.220, subd. (c).) “[S]ince requests for admissions are not limited to
matters within personal knowledge of the responding party, the party has a duty
to make a reasonable investigation of the facts before answering items which do
not fall within his personal knowledge.” (Bloxam v. Saldinger (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 729, 751-52 [citations omitted].) “If [a] litigant is able to make
an admission, the time for making it is during discovery procedures, and not at
the trial.” (Id. at p. 752 [citation omitted].) 
          A
party may move to compel further responses to requests for admission “if that
party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) [a]n answer to a
particular request is evasive or incomplete . . . [or] (2) [a]n objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (a)(1)-(2).) The “denial of all or a portion of [a] request
[for admission] must be unequivocal.” (American Federation of State, County
& Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water Dist. (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 247, 268, [citation omitted].) 

III.    DISCUSSION 
The Meet and Confer Requirement
          The Court
finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been met pursuant to Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(b)(1) as Plaintiff’s counsel declares that Defendant
Southwark’s counsel has not responded to informal meet and confer attempts. (Soofer
Decl., ¶¶ 15-17.) The Court, however, will assess the merits of the motion but
reminds the parties of the need to comply with the Code of Civil Procedure. 
Issue No.1: Appropriateness of Compelling a Further Response
    
RFA 4
RFA 4 asks Defendant Southwark to
“Admit that Defendant FISCHER is the sole cause of the SUBJECT INCIDENT.”
In its response to RFA 4, Defendant
Southwark stated that “[a]fter reasonable inquiry and investigation, Responding
Party is unable to admit or deny the matters set forth in this request, as the
information known or readily obtainable is insufficient. It is admitted Clayton
Fischer was the primary if not the sole cause of accident.” 
The Respective Declarations of Counsel 
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that
Defendant Fischer was deposed, and he admitted fault. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 6;
Exhibit A.) There is a police report finding fault with Defendant Fischer based
on eyewitness testimony. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 7; Exhibit B.) Counsel states that
Defendant Southwark admitted and submitted evidence that Defendant Fischer
called Defendant Southwark after the incident and admitted to driving drunk,
looking down at his cellphone right before the crash, and that he ran a red
light and struck Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit C.) Defendant
Southwark immediately fired Defendant Fischer and Defendant Fischer pled guilty
to felony DUI. (Soofer Decl., ¶¶ 9-10; Exhibit D.) 
In opposition to the motion, counsel
for Defendant Southwark declares that none of the witnesses to the accident or
the investigating officer have been deposed, and that Defendant Fischer
repeatedly testified at deposition that he does not recall the accident due to
his intoxication. (Goldstein Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel declares that Defendant
Southwark is unable to fully admit the accident was 100 percent due to the
fault of Defendant Fischer. (Goldstein Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel noticed
the deposition of Plaintiff but refused to allow Defendant Southwark’s counsel
to question Plaintiff at deposition. (Goldstein Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s second
deposition is scheduled for February 2nd after the Court granted Defendant
Southwark’s motion to compel a second deposition of Plaintiff. (Goldstein
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Analysis
Initially, the Court finds that none of
the exhibits submitted in support of the motion explicitly state that Defendant
Fischer was the sole cause of the accident. Rather, such exhibits stand for the
proposition that Defendant Fischer may have been the primary cause of the
subject incident. Defendant Fischer admitted that he was the cause of the
accident and that he was not putting any blame for the crash on Plaintiff;
however, he was not asked about other parties who may have been the cause of
the accident. (Soofer Decl., Exhibit A.) 
Reviewing Defendant Southwark’s
response, which is the basis for Plaintiff’s motion, the Court finds that
Defendant Southwark’s response to RFA 4 is improper. Defendant Southwark stated
that it made a reasonable inquiry into the matter, and it is unable to admit or
deny that Defendant Fischer was the sole cause of the accident due to the
information available to Defendant Southwark being insufficient. Defendant
Southwark, however, then admitted that “Clayton Fischer was the primary if not
the sole cause of the accident.”, The Court fails to understand how Plaintiff
can ascertain whether Defendant Southwark is making an unequivocal admission or
denial based on such response. The response can be read as Defendant Southwark
admitting that Defendant Fischer was either the primary or the sole
cause of the accident. As such, Defendant Southwark did not make an unequivocal
admission or denial as to whether Defendant Fischer was the sole cause of the
accident.
The Court finds that a further response
to RFA 4 is warranted and the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion. Defendant
Southwark is ordered to provide a verified, complete, and code-compliant
response to RFA 4 within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.
 
Issue No.2: Monetary Sanctions
          Monetary
sanctions must be imposed “against a party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response [to
requests for admission], unless [the Court] finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(d).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions.  (Cornerstone Realty
Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)
          Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that his hourly rate is $350.00 per hour. (Soofer Decl., ¶
21.) Counsel further declares that he has incurred 5 hours to prepare the
motion and the separate statement. (Soofer Decl., ¶¶ 22-23.) Counsel
anticipates spending 2 hours reviewing the opposition and preparing a reply
brief. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 24.) Counsel states he will spend 1 hour preparing for
and arguing the motion. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 25.) A $60.00 filing fee was incurred
for the motion. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 26.) In sum, Plaintiff requests monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,860.00 against Defendant Southwark and its
counsel of record, Roy D. Goldstein, Esq. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 27.) 
          Exercising
its discretion, the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions and awards Plaintiff reasonable monetary sanctions in the amount of $760.00,
which represents 2.0 hours of work on the motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. The
Court reduces the amount of monetary sanctions given the straightforward nature
of the motion and the relatively brief opposition. Further, the Court, while
recognizing that it has granted Plaintiff’s motion, is concerned that the
parties are engaging in wholly unnecessary discovery motion practice, seemingly
more to make a point than to advance the case.  In any event, Defendant Southwark and
Defendant Southwark’s counsel, Roy D. Goldstein, Esq. are ORDERED to pay
monetary sanctions to Plaintiff, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$760.00 within 30 days of notice of this order. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel a further response to RFA 4 is GRANTED. 
Defendant
Southwark is ordered to provide a verified, complete, and code-compliant
response to RFA 4 within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.
The Court
GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. Defendant Southwark
and Defendant Southwark’s counsel of record, Roy D. Goldstein, are ORDERED to
pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$760.00 within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


