 Case Number:  21STCV10834    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



CHRISTINA T. PEREZ, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
PI
  KAPPA ALPHA, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV10834
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTIONS FOR ORDER FOR PUBLICATION SERVICE VIA SECRETARY OF STATE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  23, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Christina T. Perez (“Plaintiff”)    
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed    
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from Plaintiff Christina T. Perez (“Plaintiff”) falling
due to crumbling stairs on March 22, 2019. On March 19, 2021, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Pi Kappa Alpha (“PKA”), Fraternity & Sorority
Services, Inc. (“F&S Services”), B&B Management Services, Inc. (“B&B”),
California Gamma Chapter House of Phi Delta Theta (“California Gamma Chapter
House”), and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) general
negligence and (2) premises liability. 
On
June 2, 2021, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint identifying Doe 1 as
West Range Corporation. 
On
August 23, 2021, West Range Corporation filed a cross-complaint; however,
pursuant to a request for dismissal filed on January 28, 2022, the
cross-complaint filed by West Range Corporation was dismissed on such date. 
On
April 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Declaration of Reasonable Diligence which
sets forth numerous attempts to serve Defendant F&S Services with the
summons and complaint. On such date, Plaintiff also filed a Declaration of
Reasonable Diligence as to attempts to serve Defendant California Gamma Chapter
House with the summons and complaint. 
On
June 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal as to Defendant PKA only
and Defendant PKA was dismissed from this action without prejudice.
On
December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order for publication for
service on Defendant California Gamma Chapter House via the California
Secretary of State. On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff also filed a motion for an
order for publication for service on Defendant F&S Services, Inc. via the
California Secretary of State. The Court will address both motions in this one
ruling as they are substantively identical and seek the same relief. Pursuant
to the motions, Plaintiff seeks an order directing service of the summons and
complaint on Defendants California Gamma Chapter House and F&S Services,
Inc. by delivering by hand to the California Secretary of State or to any
person employed in their office in the capacity of assistant or deputy.  
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD 
“A summons may be served by publication
if upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the
action is pending that the party to be served cannot be reasonable diligence be
served . . . and that either: (1) [a] cause of action exists against the party
upon whom service is to be made or he or she is a necessary or proper party to
the action . . . [or] (2) [t]he party shall be served has or claims an interest
in real or personal property in this state that is subject to the jurisdiction of
the court or the relief demanded in the action consists wholly or in part in
excluding the party from any interest in the property.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.50, subd. (a)(1)-(2).) 
If a summons and complaint cannot with
reasonable diligence be served on a domestic corporation “upon the designated
agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of
Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided in subdivision
(a), (b), or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, the court may make an order that the service be made
upon the corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any
person employed in the Secretary of State in the capacity of assistant or
deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together with
a copy of the order authorizing such service.” (Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).)
“Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day of delivery of the
process to the Secretary of State.” (Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).) 
Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10 outlines how
to personally serve a party. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20 sets forth the
requirements for substituted service. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.30 addresses
service by mail. Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10(a)-(b) indicates that a corporation
may be served by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint to the person
designated as an agent for service of process or to an individual such as the
president, chief executive officer, secretary, or other person authorized by
the corporation to accept service of process. Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10(c)
addresses service of process on a corporation that is a bank. Code Civ. Proc. §
416.20 provides that where a corporation has forfeited its charter or right to
do business, or has dissolved, service may be effectuated by delivering a copy
of the summons and the complaint to a person who is a trustee or the corporation
and of its stockholders or members. (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.20, subd. (a).) 
III.    DISCUSSION
          Motion as
to Defendant California Gamma Chapter House 
          As to the
motion concerning Defendant California Gamma Chapter House, counsel Grace Lea
Chang (“Chang”) declares that a cause of action exists against Defendant California
Gamma Chapter House and her office has made diligent attempts to serve Defendant
California Gamma Chapter House. (Chang Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.) Counsel states that she
was informed that the attorney for the corporation and the Executive Vice
President and CEO of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, Sean Wagner, informed her that
the corporation was the responsible party, and the corporation is a suspended
corporation. (Chang Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Defendant California Gamma Chapter House
has been a suspended corporation since October 2021. (Chang Decl., ¶ 5; Exhibit
1.) Multiple attempts were made to serve Defendant California Gamma Chapter House
in person, but such attempts were unsuccessful. (Chang Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Exhibits
2-3.) Plaintiff has shown numerous attempts to serve Defendant California Gamma
Chapter House’s agent for service of process. (Chang Decl., Exhibit 2.) Counsel
declares that she is unaware of any other reasonable source of information that
would have facts leading her to serve Defendant California Gamma Chapter House
and, after reasonable diligence, she is unable to locate and serve Defendant California
Gamma Chapter House. (Chang Decl., ¶ 9.) 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff has shown numerous attempts, with reasonable diligence, to
serve Defendant California Gamma Chapter House. 
          The Court
therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to serve Defendant California Gamma Chapter
House via the California Secretary of State pursuant to the procedures outlined
in Corp. Code § 1702.
 
          Motion as
to Defendant F&S Services 
          As to the
motion concerning F&S Services, Plaintiff’s counsel, Grace Lea Chang
(“Chang”), declares that a cause of action exists against Defendant F&S
Services and her office has made diligent attempts to serve Defendant F&S
Services, and her office found the corporate records of Defendant F&S
Services which contained the information of its designated agent for service of
process. (Chang Decl., ¶¶ 1-3; Exhibit 1.) 
Multiple attempts were made to serve
Defendant F&S Services in person, by serving its chief executive officer,
secretary, and agent, Mark Miller, but such attempts were unsuccessful. (Chang
Decl., ¶¶ 4,6; Exhibits 2 and 4.) Plaintiff has shown numerous attempts to
serve the agent, secretary, and chief executive officer for Defendant F&S
Services with the summons and complaint. (Chang Decl., Exhibits 2 and 4.)
Counsel declares that she is unaware of any other reasonable source of
information that would have facts leading her to serve Defendant F&S
Services and, after reasonable diligence, she is unable to locate and serve
Defendant F&S Services. (Chang Decl., ¶ 8.) Counsel even caused a stake-out
to be ordered to serve Defendant F&S Services; however, the stake-out was
unsuccessful. (Chang Decl., ¶ 7; Exhibit 5.) 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff has shown numerous attempts, with reasonable diligence, to
serve Defendant F&S Services.
          The Court
therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to serve Defendant F&S Services via the
California Secretary of State pursuant to the procedures outlined in Corp. Code
§ 1702.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
          The Court
therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to serve Defendant California Gamma Chapter
House via the California Secretary of State pursuant to the procedures outlined
in Corp. Code § 1702.
          The Court
therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to serve Defendant F&S Services via the
California Secretary of State pursuant to the procedures outlined in Corp. Code
§ 1702.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 