 Case Number:  22STCV21383    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DAISY MARTINEZ, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV21383
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE TO ALLOW MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
  TO BE HEARD OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, FOR THE COURT TO SET ANOTHER DATE FOR THE
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT BEFORE THE EXISTING TRIAL DATE 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  23, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Koulax Enterprises, Inc. (“Koulax”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed  
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from Plaintiff Daisy Martinez (“Plaintiff”) sustaining a fall on
a sidewalk on July 21, 2021. On June 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, Koulax
Enterprises, and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for: (1) general
negligence and (2) premises liability. 
On
March 7, 2023, Defendant Koulax Enterprises, Inc. (“Koulax”) filed an answer to
the complaint.[1]

On
March 13, 2023, Defendant County of Los Angeles filed an answer to the
complaint. 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of Defendant County
of Los Angeles, and dismissal of Defendant County of Los Angeles was entered on
such date. 
On
December 12, 2023, Defendant Koulax filed a motion for summary judgment, which
has a hearing date of March 5, 2025.
On
December 15, 2023, Defendant Koulax filed and served a motion to continue the
trial date and final status conference date, as well as extend the discovery
cut-off date, in accordance with the new trial date (the “Motion”). Alternatively,
Defendant Koulax requests that the Court advance the hearing on its motion for
summary judgment to a date before the current trial date of April 26, 2024. 
On
December 18, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed an answer to the
complaint. The Motion was not served on Defendant City of Los Angeles as it had
not yet filed an answer or otherwise appeared in this action when the Motion
was filed.
          The Motion is
unopposed. Any opposition was required to have been filed and served at least nine
court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 II.    LEGAL STANDARD
          A motion for
summary judgment must “be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial,
unless the court for good cause considers otherwise.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a)(3).) A motion for summary judgment “may be made at any time after 60
days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of
each party against whom the motion is directed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a)(1).) A court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed
within the time limits of Code Civ. Proc. § 437c. (Wells
Fargo Bank v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919.) 
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides
that the court has the power to “amend and control its process and orders so as
to make them conform to law and justice.” “[T]he power to determine when a
continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances. (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex
parte application, with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).) The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good
cause may be present where a party has not been unable “to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts” or
there has been a “significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when
determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court
considers factors such as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).) 
III.    DISCUSSION 
Issue No.1: Good Cause 
          According to
the declaration of Dimitry Chapovsky (“Chapovsky”) the trial date in this case
is currently scheduled for April 26, 2024. (Chapovsky Decl., ¶ 3.) On December
7, 2023, counsel’s paralegal reserved the first available hearing date of March
5, 2025 for a motion for summary judgment. (Chapovsky Decl., ¶ 3.) On December
12, 2023, Defendant Koulax filed and served the motion for summary judgment and
such motion was filed 136 days before the current trial date. (Chapovsky Decl.,
¶ 3.) Counsel attests that they reserved the earliest possible date for a
motion for summary judgment hearing. (Chapovsky Decl., ¶ 3.)
          Counsel
further attests that a trial continuance is warranted. (Chapovsky Decl., ¶ 4.)
Alternatively, counsel requests that the court schedule a hearing on Defendant
Koulax’s motion for summary judgment prior to the current trial date of April
26, 2024. (Chapovsky Decl., ¶ 4.) 
          Exercising
its discretion under Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens, supra, 49
Cal.App.3d 12, 18, the Court finds it appropriate to continue the trial in this
matter. Due to congestion on the Court’s calendar, the Court opts to continue
trial rather than advancing the hearing on Defendant Koulax’s motion for
summary judgment. Defendant Koulax reserved the earliest available hearing date
for a motion for summary judgment. Based on the current trial date, its motion
for summary judgment would not be heard until approximately 10.5 months after
trial. Defendant Koulax filed a timely motion for summary judgment and has a
right to have such motion heard prior to trial under Wells Fargo Bank v.
Superior Court, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919. 
Defendant City of Los Angeles filed its
answer after the Motion was filed. Moreover, the answer of Defendant City of
Los Angeles was only served on Plaintiff. Thus, Defendant Koulax may not be
aware of the appearance of Defendant City of Los Angeles in this action.
Irrespective of such fact, Plaintiff failed to file an opposition to the Motion
and therefore there is an inference the Motion is meritorious. (Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  
          Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS the Motion.  
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Defendant Koulax’s
motion to continue trial. The Court continues non-jury trial in this action
from April 26, 2024, to Monday, April 7, 2025 at 8:30 AM in this department.
All trial-related dates, including the final status conference, discovery, and
motion cut-off dates, are based on the continued trial date. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


