 Case Number:  23STCV27309    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MILEENA MARQUEZ, as Guardian ad Litem of a minor, and LIAM
   MARQUEZ-GARCIA, a minor, 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
AMADOU
   LAMINE DIATTA,
 
                   Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23STCV27309
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: LIAM MARQUEZ-GARCIA, BY AND THROUGH HIS GUARDIAN AD LITEM,
   MILEENA MARQUEZ’S PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF DISPUTED CLAIM 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.

January
   23, 2024



 
Claimant Liam
 Marquez-Garcia (“Claimant”), a minor, by and through their Guardian Ad
Litem, Mileena Marquez (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their
claims against Defendant Amadou Lamine Diatta in exchange for $15,000.00.  If approved, $1,131.00
will be used for medical expenses,  $6,000.00 will
be used for attorney’s fees, and $0.00
will be used for non-medical expenses, leaving a balance of $7,869.00
for Claimant. 
Court approval is required for all
settlements of a minor’s claim.  (Probate
Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code
Civ. Proc. § 372.)  The Court has
reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is fair and reasonable.
Further, the requested attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 40% of
the total settlement, is fair provided the Petitioner consent to the
contingency fee retainer agreement. However, the Court finds the following inconsistencies
preclude granting the Petition at this time:
Claimant is seven years old and the net
settlement proceeds are only $7,869.00. Further, Petitioner alleges that
there is no existing guardianship of the estate for the minor claimant. 
(Section 18b).) Petitioner requests both that a guardian of the estate is
appointed to receive the settlement proceeds (Section 18b(1)) and that the
court order the proceeds to be distributed to a minor's settlement trust
(Section 18b(7)). Those requests are inconsistent in that the proceeds
would not both be released directly to a guardian of the estate for plaintiff
and be funded into a settlement trust.
If seeking a guardianship of the
estate, petitioner would need to petition the probate division of this court
and obtain a ruling appointing a guardian. Moreover, a proposed trust
instrument has not been provided for court review. And in any event,
settlement proceeds of $7,869.00 would render a guardianship of the estate or a
settlement trust economically unviable.
Petitioner may wish to review Probate
Code section 3611 regarding the available alternatives for receipt of the
settlement proceeds, including deposit of the proceeds to a blocked account or
other means for holding the proceeds on behalf of minor that would be in the
minor's best interest, and file a declaration or other documentation with the
court prior to the continued hearing date to clarify or amend petitioner's
request for receipt of the settlement proceeds.  
Based on these defects, the Court continues this hearing to XXXX.
Per California Rules of Court, Rule
7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at the hearing, unless the Court
finds good cause to excuse their appearance. 
The Court finds that Claimant’s appearance is not necessary, but will
require Petitioner (through counsel) to appear.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 