 Case Number:  21STCV23305    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



CHARLOTTE JESTER, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CENTIMARK
  CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV23305
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER REQUIRING PLAINTIFF TO SUBMIT TO A MENTAL
  EXAMINATION 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  23, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Centimark Corporation (“Moving
Defendant”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Charlotte Jester (“Plaintiff”)
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a falling propane tank knocking Plaintiff unconscious. On June
22, 2021, Plaintiff Charlotte Jester (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants CentiMark Corporation, GranCare Autumn Hills, LLC and Does 1 to 50,
alleging causes of action for: (1) general negligence and (2) premises liability.
  
On
September 30, 2021, Defendant Centimark Corporation (“Moving Defendant”) filed
an answer to the complaint. 
The Instant Motion
          On November
15, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit
to a mental examination to be conducted by Nina T. Rodd, Ph.D., a licensed and
practicing clinical psychologist, on January 17, 2024 at 10:00 A.M., at Dr.
Rodd’s office located at 620 Newport Center Drive, 11th Floor, Newport Beach,
CA 92660 (the “Motion”).[1]
The Motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiff has placed her mental condition
at issue and Moving Defendant cannot adequately proceed to trial without
information relating to the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s alleged mental
injuries. 
          In support of
the Motion, Moving Defendant contends that Plaintiff has placed her mental
condition in controversy and good cause exists to compel Plaintiff’s mental
examination. 
          On December 4,
2023, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition to the Motion. On December 8,
2023, Moving Defendant filed and served a reply. 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD 
          A defendant
who seeks to conduct a mental examination of plaintiff must file a motion and
“obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a
motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the
person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (b).) The court may grant such a motion “only for good cause
shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (b).) A showing of good cause
generally requires that “the party produce specific facts justifying discovery
and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) A mental examination is
generally appropriate only when a plaintiff alleges continuing emotional
distress or mental injury and so places his or her mental or emotional
condition “in controversy” in the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a);
Vinson v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p.840.) 
“An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to
describe in detail who will conduct the examination, and the diagnostic
tests and procedures to be employed. The way to describe these diagnostic tests
and procedures—fully and in detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.) 
The party who seeks to compel a mental
examination bears the burden to specify the diagnostic tests and procedures to
be conducted. (Carpenter v. Superior Court, supra, 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 267.)¿“Insisting
that section 2032.320 means what it says—that
the diagnostic tests and procedures must be specified—will result in an orderly and efficient means of balancing
the interests of the plaintiff and defendant.¿ The defendant, aware that the court
must name the diagnostic tests and procedures in the order granting a mental
examination, will identify the potential tests and procedures in its moving
papers.¿ The plaintiff, assisted by counsel and
a psychologist or other expert, may consider whether the proposed tests are
inappropriate, irrelevant, or abusive, and submit evidence and argument to that
effect if necessary.”¿(Ibid.)¿ 
III.    DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
          Plaintiff
contends that Moving Defendant failed to meet and confer prior to filing the
instant motion. 
          The Court
finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met pursuant to California Code
of Civil Procedure, Section 2032.310(b). Counsel for Moving Defendant
attests to efforts to come to an agreement to stipulate to a mental examination
of Plaintiff. (Schannong Decl., ¶ 3.) Thus, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s
argument that there was a failure to meet and confer prior to filing the
Motion. 
Issue No.1: Identity of the Examiner and Scope of the
Examination    
          Initially,
the Court rejects Plaintiff’s contention that Moving Defendant never provided
her with a formal notice of mental examination or the identity of the examiner
and lists of tests until the same day the Motion was filed. Plaintiff presents
no legal authority which requires formal notice of a mental examination prior
to bringing a motion to compel mental examination. “Contentions are waived when
a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th
1210, 1215.) By its nature, the Motion is giving Plaintiff notice of Moving
Defendant’s intent to compel a mental examination. 
          The Court
also finds that the Notice of Motion sets forth the identity of the examiner
and Dr. Rodd’s declaration in support of the Motion identifies the lists of
tests to be performed. Thus, taken together, the Motion and the declaration of
Dr. Rodd in support thereof identifies the time, date, conditions, nature,
scope, and the diagnostic tests and procedures as required by Carpenter v.
Superior Court, supra, 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 267.
Issue No.2: Good Cause 
          Plaintiff
asserts that Moving Defendant has not shown good cause for a mental
examination. Moving Defendant asserts that there is good cause for a mental
examination. 
          Plaintiff has
reported recent neurological and neuropsychological issues which she relates to
the subject incident such as traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress
syndrome, neck pain, shoulder pain, concussion, post concussive symptoms,
depression, anxiety, light sensitivity, poor concentration, and memory loss.
(Schannong Decl., ¶ 5 and Exhibit B.) 
          The Court finds that Moving Defendant has
made a showing of good cause to justify a mental examination of Plaintiff. In
discovery responses, Plaintiff is asserting various physical and mental
ailments that she suffers from due to the subject incident. Plaintiff has
therefore put her mental and emotional state in controversy. Plaintiff argues
that Moving Defendant was provided with her medical records on January 14, 2022
and such records were later subpoenaed on July 6, 2022. (Opposition, 9:1-4.) The
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel in opposition to the Motion does not
indicate such fact. Thus, this argument fails to rebut Moving Defendant’s
showing of good cause. 
Issue No.3: The Proposed Stipulation
          Plaintiff
asserts that Moving Defendant’s counsel has not agreed to enter into a proposed
stipulation which outlines pending issues between the parties including but not
limited to: (1) the Motion is only on behalf of Moving Defendant and the mental
examination should be on behalf of all Defendants, as they are all aligned; (2)
Plaintiff’s deposition transcript should be made available to Moving
Defendant’s expert and any questions of the incident or how the incident
occurred should be limited or curtailed, unless the questions directly relate
to damages; and (3) questions that seek to invade the attorney-client privilege
and/or attorney work product privilege should be barred. Moving Defendant
indicates in the reply brief that it is agreeable to many of the provisions in
the proposed stipulation, however, several demands of the proposed stipulation
are non-negotiable. 
The Court declines to be involved in
the negotiation of any stipulation and does not offer advisory opinions. 
Issue No.4: Untimeliness
          Plaintiff
contends that the Motion is untimely. Plaintiff asserts that discovery motions
will not be heard after the discovery deadlines. 
          “[A]ny party
shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or
before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) 
          On July 12,
2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue the
trial date and all related dates and trial was continued from August 7, 2023 to
February 29, 2024. (07/12/23 Minute Order.) The Court’s July 12, 2023 Minute
Order provides that “[I]f the parties come to an agreement regarding discovery
before the 09/06/2023 hearing date, they may submit a stipulation and order. If
the parties submit a stipulation, they may request to take the 09/06/2023
hearing off calendar.” (Id.) 
          On August 14,
2023, the Court entered a Stipulation and Order to Reopen Discovery based on
the February 29, 2024 trial date. 
          Thus, the
Court finds that the Motion is not untimely as it is heard more than 15 days
prior to the trial date. The discovery cutoff is not until January 29, 2024.
          Also,
Plaintiff’s citations to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and various Federal
District Court cases as to discovery cutoffs are not persuasive. The Motion was
filed within the deadlines set forth by the Code of Civil Procedure. 
Issue No.5: Waiver
          Plaintiff
asserts that she reserves her right to waive any continuing emotional distress
claims that would allow for a mental examination pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320, subd. (c). 
          When a party
who stipulates that: (1) no claim is being made for mental and emotional
distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries
claimed; and (2) no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional
distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages, then
“the court shall not order a mental examination of a person for whose personal
injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional
circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (b)-(c)(1)(2).) 
          If Plaintiff
wishes to waive any continuing emotional distress claims, then Plaintiff may do
so by following the procedure set forth in Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320. 
          IV.     CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS the Motion. 
Plaintiff Charlotte
Jester is ORDERED to appear for mental examination. The mental examination will
be conducted by Nina T. Rodd, Ph.D., a licensed and practicing clinical
psychologist, on a date to be agree upon by the parties or, if no agreement is reached,
January 29, 2024, at 10 a.m. 620 Newport Center Drive, 11th Floor, Newport
Beach, CA 92660. 
The Court
references the declaration of Nina T. Rodd, Ph.D., in support of the Motion
which sets forth the diagnostic tests and procedures to be performed, and conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination, as well as who is performing the
examination. (See Rodd Decl.) Rood declares that the anticipated
duration of the examination is six to eight hours including breaks. (Rodd
Decl., ¶ 5.) 
The examination
will be divided into a morning and afternoon session. The morning session will
be conducted as an interview and Plaintiff will be asked questions regarding
her mental status, social, family, psychological, medical, legal, and
occupational history, the subject incident, and symptoms related thereto. The
morning session will take no longer than 3 hours and will begin at 10:00 AM.  
The afternoon
session will take no more than 2 hours during which the following psychological
assessment tests will be performed: MMPI-2-RF (Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory-2-Restructed Form); PAI (Personality Assessment
Inventory), BDI-2 (Beck Depression Inventory), Beck Anxiety Inventory, MMSE-2
(Mini Mental Status Examination-2), and TSI-2 (Trauma Symptom Inventory-2). 
There will be
a 1-hour lunch break between the morning and afternoon sessions. Plaintiff
shall be allowed restroom breaks as needed. The examination shall be no longer
than 5 hours, excluding the 1- hour lunch break and restroom breaks. 
The examiner
shall not ask questions that invade the attorney-client privilege. (See
Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 734.) “The
attorney-client privilege attaches to a confidential communication between the
attorney and the client and bars discovery of the communication irrespective of
whether it includes unprivileged material.” (Ibid.) 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


