 Case Number:  21STCV36314    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ALEJANDRO GASTON TORRES, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
JONTAI
  JOSHUA JETER, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV36314
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE AT DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT;
  REQUEST FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER; REQUEST FOR A MONETARY SANCTION
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  23, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Alejandro Gaston Torres 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Jontai Joshua Jeter  
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from Plaintiff Alejandro Gaston Torres (“Plaintiff”)
falling off or through a carport roof located at 15517 Sandel Ave., Gardena, CA
90248 (the “Property”), which occurred on October 22, 2019. Plaintiff contends
that he was attempting to repair or replace the roof of the carport at the
request of Defendant Jontai Joshua Jeter (“Defendant”).
On
October 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant and Does 1 to 10,
alleging a single cause of action for premises liability. 
On
June 14, 2022, after hearing oral argument, the Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to the complaint with 30 days leave to amend.   
On
July 8, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendant and Does 1 to 10, alleging a sole cause of action for
premises liability. 
On
August 9, 2022, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint.
On
April 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further response
at deposition of Defendant, motion for a protective order barring Defendant and
Defendant’s attorneys from engaging in harassing conduct at deposition, and a
request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and his attorneys in the
amount of $2,260.00. 
On August 7, 2023, Defendant filed an
IDC Form which indicates that the issues set forth in the motion were resolved
and that Defendant agreed to pay for the Court reporter and that Defendant
would be present for a second deposition. Such form also indicates that
Defendant agreed to answer all questions and reasonable follow-up questions
related to the questions raised in the motion. In summary, the IDC form
indicates that the issues raised in the motion were resolved. 
On
August 14, 2023, an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held, and the
Court ordered Plaintiff’s counsel to prepare and submit a Notice of Outcome
within five court days. (08/14/23 Minute Order.) The Court noted that “[t]he
issues have not been resolved.” (08/14/23 Minute Order.) 
On
August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a Notice of Outcome. The Notice of
Outcome states that “[a]lthough it appeared at the IDC that the discovery
dispute was fully settled . .. there is no full resolution.” (See Notice
of Outcome, 2:8-10.) Plaintiff indicated that “Defendant’s counsel will not
instruct Defendant to refrain from making comments about the questions at the
second deposition; and Defendant will not answer all the questions in dispute,
including regarding the paternity of the children of Defendant’s live-in
girlfriend at the accident scene.” (Notice of Outcome, 2:11-14.) 
Crux of the Instant Motion 
According
to the separate statement in support of the motion, Plaintiff seeks an order
that Defendant produce scene photos at deposition, unredacted declaration of
coverages, answer questions about Defendant’s resident girlfriend and
reasonable follow-up questions thereto, and answer questions about whether he
cares that someone fell on his premises and reasonable follow-up questions
thereto. 
 
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Motion 
          On October
30, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a supplementary motion indicating that
“[a]lthough this discovery dispute appeared to settle a the IDC (Defendant’s
attorney appearing to agree to answer all the questions in dispute including
the identity of Defendant’s live-in girlfriend who witnessed some of the
construction that is the subject of the suit, produce scene photos, instruct
Defendant to not make his own objections, and to pay the entire cost of
deposition), Plaintiff filed a notice of outcome indicating otherwise due to
Plaintiff later learning that Defendant was refusing to pay for the entire cost
of the deposition . . . and . . . Defendant’s attorney refusing to agree to
instruct Defendant not to make comments amounting to making his own
objections.” (Supp. Motion, 2:10-18.)
          Plaintiff
further argues in the supplementary motion that “[t]he Court . . . ruled at the
IDC that if the outcome was positive the deposition would occur by Sept 20 but
if it was negative then Plaintiff could hold off on the deposition and instead
file a supplementary motion by October 30, 2023.” (Supp. Motion, 2:18-20.)
Defendant’s attorney ultimately agreed to pay for the entire cost of the
deposition but did not agree to instruct Defendant to refrain from making
comments. (Supp. Motion, 2: 22-25.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to
produce unredacted declarations of coverages. (Supp. Motion, 3:5-11.) Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant failed to provide full contact information in written
special interrogatory number 24 that his attorney promised he would provide at
the IDC. (Supp. Motion, 3:1-2.)  As to the
supplementary motion, counsel declares Plaintiff is seeking an additional
$825.00 in sanctions. (Feldman Supp. Motion Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Defendant’s Opposition
          In opposition
to the motion, Defendant contends that at the IDC, Defendant’s counsel
reiterated that the IDC statement contained the agreement reached amongst
counsel and that Defendant would stand by it. (Opp., 3:26-27.) Defendant asserts
that he already produced all unredacted copies of his insurance policy. (Opp.,
3:22-25.) Moreover, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s counsel has been advised
that he “would be produced for deposition, that counsel would do their best to
have [Defendant] respond appropriately, that [Defendant] would answer all
questions agreed to at the IDC and all other reasonable questions as well.”
(Opp., 3:28-4:2.) Defendant states that all the issues raised in the motion
have been resolved but for the demand of Plaintiff’s counsel that Defendant not
be instructed to make any comments at deposition. (Opp., 4:17-18; see also Damon
Decl., ¶¶ 7-10.) Defendant asserts that the motion is frivolous, and sanctions
should be imposed on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff’s Reply
          On reply, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant should be ordered to provide contact information for his
live-in girlfriend as it was not provided in response to Plaintiff’s form
interrogatories. Such discovery, however, is not within the scope of this
motion as it is not identified in the separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345, subd. (c).) If
Plaintiff wishes to compel a response to form interrogatories then Plaintiff
may file and serve a noticed motion. For purposes of the instant motion, the
Court finds such request not relevant. As such, the Court DENIES that request.
          Plaintiff
requests that Defendant be ordered to answer questions about who the father of
each child is living in the residence at the time of the subject incident; however,
such questioning was not identified in the separate statement or moving papers.
(See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345.) The Court thus DENIES this
request. 
          Thus, the
Court’s analysis will only address the issues raised in the motion and
supplemental motion, as well as the separate statement. The Court will neither compel
further responses to deposition questions that were never asked nor will the
Court resolve other discovery matters that are not before the Court via a
noticed motion. There are inconsistencies between the parties as to what issues
have been resolved, thus, with the exception of the above-identified issues not
set forth in the separate statement, the Court will assess the motion in its
entirety. [1]
 
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD
Under Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010, “any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” “Discovery may relate to the
claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
“If, after service, of a deposition
notice, a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection . .
. fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . or tangible thing described in the deposition
notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . .
. or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).) To justify the production of documents at deposition, a
party must “set forth specific facts showing good cause.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b).) 
“If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document . . . under the deponent’s control that is
specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).) A motion brought
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480 “shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).) 
III.    DISCUSSION 
          Initially,
the Court notes that Defendant’s opposition does not dispute the relevancy or
appropriateness of the documents requested to be produced or questions to be
answered at a further deposition. Due to the lack of legal authority presented
in the opposition as to the relevance or right to privacy, the Court finds that
Defendant has conceded to disclosure of such information under Moulton,
supra, 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. Also, according to the
opposition, Defendant has agreed to produce all documents and answer the
questions at issue in the motion. 
The Court also finds that the meet and
confer requirement has been met and the motion is timely under Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.480. (See Feldman Decl., ¶¶ 10-12; Exhibit E.)  
Issue No.1: Compelling Further Answers and the Production of
Documents
          Declaration
of Plaintiff’s Counsel
          Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that on February 6, 2023, he attempted to take the deposition
of Defendant. (Feldman Decl., ¶ 6; Exhibit A.) Counsel describes Defendant’s
conduct at the deposition of making personal objections and the conduct of
Defendant’s counsel in cutting Defendant off from answering questions as to the
schedule of Defendant’s girlfriend and whether Defendant employed Plaintiff.
(Feldman Decl., ¶ 6; Exhibit D.) Counsel attests to explaining to Defendant’s
counsel of the need to answer various questions and follow-up questions.
(Feldman Decl., ¶¶ 7-8; Exhibit D.) The Notice of Deposition of Defendant is
attached as Exhibit A to counsel’s declaration. (Feldman Decl., Exhibit A.) Defendant’s
Response and Objection to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition and Request for
Production of Documents is attached as Exhibit B to counsel’s declaration.
(Feldman Decl., Exhibit B.) 
          Incident Scene
Photos and Unproduced Declaration of Coverages 
          In
Plaintiff’s separate statement in support of the motion, Plaintiff indicates
that the photos sought to be produced at deposition are subject accident scene
photos and Plaintiff requests “all [photographs] in your possession depicting
or otherwise representing the scene of this [incident].” (Separate Statement,
2:11-12.) Defendant objected to such request but stated he would produce all
photographs, to the extent any exist, in his possession, custody, and control.
(Separate Statement, 2:17-20.) 
          The Court
finds such information is relevant as the scene photographs go to the condition
of the Property when Plaintiff allegedly fell and may lead to other admissible
evidence.  
          As to unredacted
declarations of coverages that were sought in the Notice of Deposition and
Request for Production of Documents, the Court finds that such documents may
contain information as to the condition of the carport or whether another party
may be partially liable for Plaintiff’s alleged damages. Plaintiff seeks “any
and all declaration [documents] relating to [Defendant’s] insurance policy that
was in effect at the time of [the] [incident].” (Separate Statement, 3:11-13.) Such
information is relevant to the claims in this action. 
The Court therefore ORDERS Plaintiff to produce incident
scene photos and unredacted declarations of coverages at deposition. 
          Questions
about Defendant’s Resident Girlfriend and a Vehicle
          At
deposition, Defendant refused to answer questions about his girlfriend’s name,
age, and employment. (Separate Statement, 4:1-10.) Defendant also refused to
answer questions about what vehicle was parked under the carport. (Id.) Defendant,
however, admitted that his girlfriend lived at the Property and was living at
the Property during the time of the carport remodel. (Separate Statement, 4:12-15.)

          The Court
finds that such information is relevant because Defendant’s girlfriend may be a
percipient witness and may have information that can lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Whether a vehicle was parked under the carport may go
toward damages or whom was present at the Property when the incident occurred.
          The Court
therefore ORDERS Defendant to provide further responses to such questioning. 
          Questioning
About Whether Defendant Caring About Whether Someone Fell at the Premises
          Plaintiff
seeks to compel Defendant to respond to the question of does Defendant “care whether
someone fell on your premises?” (Separate Statement, 5:10-12.) Plaintiff argues
that such questioning is relevant to ascertain whether Defendant may be liable
for punitive damages and whether Defendant is hiding information about the
subject accident. 
          While a
seeming stretch, the Court finds that such questioning may be relevant to
Defendant’s state of mind during the alleged incident and can go toward whether
Defendant could be subject to punitive damages. 
          Thus, the
Court ORDERS Defendant to provide further responses to such questioning at
deposition. 
Issue No.2: Protective Order
          A protective
order shall issue upon a showing of good cause. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (a).) A protective order protects “any party, deponent, or other natural
person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(b).) Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420 sets forth a non-exhaustive list of directions
that can be part of a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(b)(1)-(16).) A party seeking a protective order has the burden of showing good
cause for the order sought. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) “In law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied
to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)
          Plaintiff
seeks a protective order barring Defendant and Defendant’s attorneys from
engaging in annoying conduct. That request is a bit ambiguous.  The Court understands the request to be primarily
seeking an order that Defendant’s counsel instruct Defendant not to make his
own objections or other inflammatory comments. Plaintiff’s counsel sets forth
instances of Defendant making his own objections. (Feldman Decl., ¶ 5.) To the
extent that Plaintiff wishes to prohibit opposing counsel from objecting to
questions at deposition, the Court finds such request improper.  At this time, the Court declines to make any protective
order, but hereby strongly recommends that Defendant’s counsel ensure that his client
not engage in any annoying conduct and, in particular, strongly encourages
Defendant’s counsel to advise his client that he is not to make his own
objections during deposition.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request
for a protective order.
Issue No.3: Monetary Sanctions
          Misuse of the
discovery process includes “[m]aking, without a substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd.
(h).) “The Court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an
answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).)
A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions.  (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771.)
          Although
there is a dispute about whether Defendant produced the documents at issue and
agreed to answer questions at deposition after Plaintiff’s motion was filed, it
is undisputed that Defendant’s actions and that of Defendant’s counsel
necessitated the instant motion. 
          Counsel
declares that his hourly rate is $275.00 per hour and that he will incur a $60
filing fee for the motion which equals $2,260.00. (Feldman Decl., ¶ 13.) In the
supplementary motion, counsel declares that he spent an additional 3 hours as
to the supplementary motion and requests an additional $825.00 in sanctions
against Defendant, his attorney Jennifer Damon, and her new firm Colman Perkins
Law Group.  
          The Court
will not impose sanctions against Colman Perkins Law Group as they had no affiliation
with this matter when Plaintiff’s motion was filed. Exercising its discretion,
the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the
reasonable amount of $610.00, which represents 2 hours of work on the motion
plus the $60.00 filing fee. The Court reduces the amount of monetary sanctions
given the straightforward nature of the motion and the fact that there is a
dispute as to whether the issues raised in the motion were actually resolved. 
          Monetary
sanctions in the amount of $610.00 are to be paid to Plaintiff by Defendant and
Defendant’s counsel, Jennifer Damon, jointly and severally, within 30 days of
the date of notice of this order. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses at the deposition of Defendant concerning answers to
questions and the production of documents. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request
for a protective order.
The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions. Monetary sanctions in the amount of $610.00 are
to be paid to Plaintiff by Defendant and Defendant’s counsel, Jennifer Damon,
jointly and severally, within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 23rd day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


