 Case Number:  24GDCV00301    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONI.        INTRODUCTION
          This action arises out of warranty and repair obligations of
Defendant Tesla Motors Inc, (“Defenant”) related to a 2023 Tesla Model Y (the
“Subject Vehicle”). Plaintiff Roomana Kamran (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint
on March 21, 2024, alleging the Subject Vehicle suffered from widespread
defects including nonconforming structural, steering, and suspension system
defects, abnormal noise defects, and body defects.
Defendant
filed the motion to compel arbitration on March 21, 2024. It is unopposed. 
Defendant
now seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate. The motion is granted. 
  II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
"California
law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively
quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. [Citation.] To further
that policy, Code of Civil Procedure §1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce
a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.
[Citation.] Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right
to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and
(3) pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of
conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues. (§ 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)" Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 959, 967.
The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination. Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
The
party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration
clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.
Nonetheless, this policy does not override ordinary principles of contract
interpretation. The contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined
before the parties to the contract can be ordered to arbitration: Although the
law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no
policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they
have not agreed to arbitrate." Rice v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th
1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
In Rowe
v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that
"a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration
agreement." Id. at 1286. In addition, "a nonsignatory who is the
agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will." Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477-78. Further, "in many cases, nonparties to arbitration
agreements are allowed to enforce those agreements where there is sufficient
identity of parties." Valley Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction,
Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013, 1021. This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as "a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement." Ibid.
"Under
the doctrine of equitable estoppel, [...] a nonsignatory defendant may invoke
an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims
when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in
and intertwined with the underlying contract obligations. By relying on
contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not
exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement. Where the equitable estoppel
doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has a right to enforce the arbitration
agreement." Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
495-96 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in relevant part: "On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists[. . .]" "Generally, an arbitration agreement must
be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate
may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A signed agreement is not
necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be implied in fact or be
effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause within a contract may be
binding on a party even if the party never actually read the clause."
Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (internal citations omitted).
III.     ANALYSIS
          Defendant Tesla Motors Inc., moves for an order compelling
arbitration of Plaintiff's claims and
for an order for stay pending completion of arbitration. The Motor Vehicle
Order Agreement sets forth an arbitration provision involving “Tesla Inc.” However,
the "Seller/Creditor" named in the Retail Installment Sale Contract
is identified as moving party Defendant "Tesla Motors, Inc." (Decl.,
Raymond Kim, Exs. 1, 2.) The motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 1281 et seq. and the FAA, on the ground that Plaintiff is bound by
a written agreement to arbitrate the subject matter of the Complaint. Tesla
Motors Inc. argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists between the
parties that requires arbitration of Plaintiff's claims.
Pursuant to the Retail Installment Sales Contract
between the parties, Defendant has identified a valid arbitration provision.
The provision states in relevant part: "Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. [...]"
(Defendant's Ex. 2).
Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show
that the arbitration clause should not be enforced. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
Plaintiff did not meet the burden to show that the arbitration agreement should
not be enforced. Plaintiff filed no written opposition to this motion.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Therefore, Defendant
Tesla Motors Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED. The Court action is ordered stayed pending
completion of arbitration. 
Defendant
Tesla Motors Inc., is ordered to give notice.
                  
Dated:  June 27, 2024                                       
                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT