  Case Number:  22BBCV00432    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO
DISCOVERY REQUESTS                        
I.         
INTRODUCTION
This action arises from a city improvement project (the “Project”)
in which Plaintiff VCI Utility Services, LLC DBA Vantage Utility Services
(“Plaintiff”) performed underground distribution conduit system work for Defendant
City of Burbank (“Defendant”). Plaintiff initiated this action on June 13, 2022,
and filed the First Amended Complaint on August 15, 2022, for the following causes
of action: (1) breach of contract and (2) violation of the California Public
Contract Code. Plaintiff alleges that it had no opportunity to investigate the
work site’s soil conditions prior to submitting its bid of $747,557.88.
Plaintiff alleges that the soil was materially different from the description
provided by the City and different from what could reasonably be expected in
the area.  This lead to a six-week completion
delay and additional costs of $624,365.31, which Defendant declined to pay. (FAC,
¶¶ 5-16.) In opposition, the City argues, in essence, that Plaintiff and its
affiliated companies, had performed numerous similar work for the City in the
past and understood the environmental conditions in which it was working.
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff propounded its initial set of
discovery on Defendant containing: 1) Construction
Form Interrogatories (Set One), 2) Special Interrogatories (Set One), and 3) a Request
for Production of Document (Set One). (Motion to Compel, p. 5.) On September 20,
2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with its first Responses. (Id.) On May
23, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with Supplemental Responses to the
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set One) regarding Interrogatories Nos. 4,
5, and 6. (Id.) 
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Jeremy P. Cowan (“Cowan”) spoke
with Defendant’s counsel, Rodolfo Aguado (“Aguado”) to meet and confer on
supplemental responses to Special Interrogatory No. 4. (Cowan Decl., ¶ 5.) On
the phone call, Defendant disputed
Plaintiff’s ability to compel further responses and requested Plaintiff memorialize
the discussion via email. (Id.) The next day, Cowan delivered an email
to Aguado setting forth the reasons why Defendant’s responses were deficient,
including citing relevant legal authority. (Cowan Decl., Exh. D.) Defendant's counsel did
not respond to that email. (Cowan Decl., ¶ 5.)
On June 6, 2026, Plaintiff filed the instant motion, moving the
Court to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Special Interrogatories (Set One),
particularly Special Interrogatory No. 4. Plaintiff also concurrently
filed a Proposed Order, Declaration of Jeremy P. Cowan, Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement, and Plaintiff’s Notice of the instant motion.
As of June 24, 2024, the Motion is unopposed.
The hearing on Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further response to
special interrogatories is set for June 27, 2024.  The Court is not aware of any further meet and
confer efforts or any further document production on behalf of Defendant. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A.   
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
Code Civ. Proc. §2030.300 governs motions to compel further
responses to interrogatories. It provides as follows: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. 
(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.” 
Motions must be made within 45 days of any response or
supplemental response (Subdivision (c)) and must be accompanied by a
declaration demonstrating the parties met and conferred to attempt informal
resolution; they must also be accompanied by a separate statement or concise
outline. (Subdivision (b).)  
Subdivision (d) provides for the issuance of monetary sanctions
against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further responses, unless the court finds the party who would be subject to
sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
sanctions unjust. any right to compel further responses (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).).
B.   
Objections
1.    
Specific
Objections
a.    
 Relevance
            Code Civ. Proc. §2017.010 permits a
party to “obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter . . . if the matter is either itself admissible
in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” According to a leading treatise, “For discovery purposes,
information should be regarded as ‘relevant’ to the subject matter if it might
reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement. [Gonzalez v. Sup.Ct. (City of San Fernando)
(1995) 33 CA4th 1539, 1546, 39 CR2d 896, 901 (citing text); Lipton v.
Sup.Ct. (Lawyers' Mut. Ins. Co.) (1996) 48 CA4th 1599, 1611, 56 CR2d 341,
347 (citing text); Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87
CA4th 1006, 1013, 105 CR2d 115, 120 (citing text)]” (Weil & Brown, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2022),
¶8:66.1.)
b.    
Burden and
Oppression
            The much-cited West
Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1961) 52 Cal.2d 407,
417-418 (West Pico) has this to say about what is meant by a burden and
what is oppressive:
“Oppression must not be equated with burden. The objection based
upon burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required,
while to support an objection of oppression there must be some showing either
of an intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of
the burden is incommensurate with the result sought. . . .  But, under the pertinent code sections
burden, alone, is not a ground for objection. In addition to expressly incorporating
the provisions of subdivision (b) of section 2016, and of subdivision (b) of
section 2019, subdivision (b) of section 2030 provides that the court may
‘protect the (objecting) party from annoyance, expense, embarrassment or
oppression.’ Subdivision (b) of section 2019 includes similar language,
omitting the word ‘expense.’ Each of the sections grants the power to make such
orders as justice requires, but none of them so much as refers to ‘burden.’
This indicates a legislative acknowledgment that some burden is inherent in all
demands for discovery. The objection of burden is valid only when that burden
is demonstrated to result in injustice. Hence, the trial court is not empowered
to sustain an objection in toto, when the same is predicated upon burden,
unless such is the only method of rendering substantial justice.”
            d. Miscellaneous
Assumes facts not in evidence. West Pico, supra, 52 Cal.2d at 421
(“even if both objections [compound and assumes facts not in evidence] were
meritorious, that would not be grounds for objection to an interrogatory
propounded under the provisions of section 2030”); Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 783 (“where the question is somewhat ambiguous, but the nature
of the information sought is apparent, the proper solution is to provide an
appropriate response”). However, argumentative may be a valid objection. 
            Another objection raised is that the
information sought is equally available to the other party. Code Civ. Proc.
§2030.220 (c) requires a responding party “who does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully” to make a “reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information . . . except where the information is equally available
to the propounding party.” As stated in Bunnell v. Superior Court (1967) 254
Cal.App.2d 720, 724, “There is statutory precedent in California for placing
the burden of research on the party propounding the interrogatory where the
records from which the research is to be done are equally available to him.” 
2.    
 General Objections
            A responding
party is under a statutory obligation to provide responses that are “as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220 (a).) Further, “If only
part of an interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory
shall be answered,” and “the specific ground for the objection shall be set
forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.240 (a)(b), italics
added.) That is, to be code-compliant, a response should state all available
information available and, if there is additional responsive information that
is being withheld based on a privilege, it should so state and identify the
privilege under which information is being withheld. Prefacing a substantive
response with the words, “subject to and without waiving” all objections is not
helpful in terms of understanding whether additional information is being
withheld based on a privilege, and which privilege is at issue.   
 
                      
II.         
ANALYSIS
Having reviewed the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court
makes the following rulings:
A.   
Procedural
Considerations
The motion is timely as it was made within 45 days of service of
Defendant’s supplemental responses. (Cowan Decl., Exh. D.) Cowan contacted
Aguado by phone and sent a meet and confer email following receipt of
Defendant’s supplemental responses. (Cowan Decl., ¶¶ 5-7; Exh. D.) The motion
also complies with the separate statement requirement. 
B.   
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories
Plaintiff’s Motion is premised on an inconsistency between
Defendant’s Initial responses and Defendant’s Supplemental Responses to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff alleges that when read
together, the responses to Special Interrogatory 1 and 4 are ambiguous, and
derivatively impact Special Interrogatories 5 and 6. In each initial response,
Defendant reserves the right to supplement responses as the discovery process
unfolds.
Special Interrogatory No. 1 asks
Defendant to describe its own preliminary investigation of the soil conditions
at the Project site. It reads:
Describe with particularity any pre-design review and analysis YOU
performed relating
to existing soils conditions at the PROJECT. (For the purposes of
these interrogatories, "YOU", "YOUR", "YOURS", or
"RESPONDING PARTY" refers to Defendant City of Burbank, including its
agents, employees, insurance companies, their agents, their employees,
accountants, investigators, predecessors, successors, assigns, and anyone else
acting on its behalf. "PROJECT" refers to the underground conduit
system and related substructure improvement work Plaintiff Vantage Utility
Services contracted to perform at Hollywood Way and Winona Avenue.) 
 Defendant’s Initial Response to Special Interrogatory No. 1:
Objection. This Interrogatory is vague and ambiguous as to
“particularity,” “any predesign review,” “analysis,” “performed,” “relating,”
and “existing soils conditions.” This Interrogatory seeks information and/or
documents that are equally available and/or previously produced to Plaintiff.
This Interrogatory is argumentative and assumes facts not in evidence. Subject
to and without waiver of the foregoing objections, Burbank responds as follows:
None. 

The Court notes that Defendant did not file a Supplemental
Response as to Special Interrogatory No. 1.
 Special Interrogatory No. 4 asks
Defendant to confirm whether Plaintiff had prior knowledge of the soil
conditions at the Project site. Specifically, it states:
If you contend that Vantage Utility Services was aware of the
existing soils conditions at the PROJECT prior to the commencement of work,
describe with particularity all facts that support this contention.
 Defendant’s Initial Response to Special Interrogatory No. 4:
Objection. This Interrogatory is vague and ambiguous as to
"aware, [sic] "existing soils conditions," and "prior to
commencement of work." This Interrogatory seeks information and/or documents
that are equally available and/or previously produced to Plaintiff. Subject to
and without waiver of the foregoing objections, Burbank responds as follows: Defendant
does not make any contentions regarding Vantage Utility Services' awareness of
existing soil conditions. Discovery is continuing. Defendant's investigation is
ongoing, and Defendant reserves the right to supplement this response if
warranted.
 Defendant’s Supplemental Response to Special Interrogatory No. 4:
Subject to and without waiver of the foregoing objections, Burbank
responds as follows:
Defendant contends that Plaintiff VCI Utility Services, LLC dba
Vantage Utility Services ("Plaintiff") was aware of the existing soil
conditions at the PROJECT based on the multitude of other subterranean
construction projects Plaintiff or its associated entities, including VCI Construction,
and VCI Telcom dba VCI Construction (collectively, the "VCI
Companies"), performed before commencing work on the PROJECT. Between July
2011 and April 2020, the VCI Companies applied for and received approximately
80 permits for subterranean construction work in the City, including at no less
than a dozen locations in the City that were within a 1.5 mile radius of the
location of the PROJECT, and for a different job under Bid Schedule No. 1464.
 Special Interrogatory No. 5
If you contend that Vantage Utility Services was aware of the
existing soils conditions at
the PROJECT prior to the commencement of work, identify all
persons with knowledge that support this contention. 

Defendant’s Initial Response to Special Interrogatory No. 5:
Objection. This Interrogatory is vague and ambiguous as to “aware,
“existing soils
conditions,” and “prior to commencement of work.” This
Interrogatory seeks information and/or documents that are equally available
and/or previously produced to Plaintiff.
Subject to and without waiver of the foregoing objections, Burbank
responds as follows:
Not applicable. Discovery is continuing. Defendant’s investigation
is ongoing, and Defendant reserves the right to supplement this response if
warranted.
 Special Interrogatory No. 6
If you contend that Vantage Utility Services was aware of the
existing soils conditions at the PROJECT prior to the commencement of work,
identify all DOCUMENTS that support this contention.
 Defendant’s Initial Response to Special Interrogatory No. 6
Objection. This Interrogatory is vague and ambiguous as to “aware,
“existing soils
conditions,” and “prior to commencement of work.” This
Interrogatory seeks information and/or documents that are equally available
and/or previously produced to Plaintiff.
Subject to and without waiver of the foregoing objections, Burbank
responds as follows:
Not applicable. Discovery is continuing. Defendant’s investigation
is ongoing, and Defendant reserves the right to supplement this response if
warranted. 

Defendant’s Supplement Response to Special Interrogatory No. 6:
Objection. This Interrogatory is vague and ambiguous as to “aware,
“existing soils conditions,” and “prior to commencement of work.” This
Interrogatory seeks information and/or documents that are equally available
and/or previously produced to Plaintiff. Subject to and without waiver of the
foregoing objections, Burbank responds as follows: Not applicable. Discovery is
continuing. Defendant’s investigation is ongoing, and Defendant reserves the
right to supplement this response if warranted. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s reasoning for requesting
additional responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1, 4, 5, and 6.
Specifically the Court finds that Defendant’s omission of a supplemental
response to Special Interrogatory No. 1 is inconsistent with its initial
response that it did not produce soil reports on its own, and that none of the
bid-related documents identify soil conditions. The Court agrees that Plaintiff
is entitled to supplemental responses 45 days after receipt of these provided responses.
Thus, Defendant must comply in providing code compliant responses to the
foregoing requests without further delay or prejudice to Plaintiff. Failure to
do so will result in the Court awarding sanctions on its own motion.
The request for further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
One) is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to
serve further, code-compliant responses within thirty (30) days of the date of
this Order.  
C.   
Sanctions
Plaintiff does not request sanctions and does not provide documentation
of hours spent on drafting the discovery motions, separate statement, meet and
confer letter, reply, or instant motion. Plaintiff also does not declare its
hourly fee. Although it is normally the Court’s practice to award sanctions
based on a party unsuccessfully opposing a discovery motion, the Court is
unable to determine the amount of such sanctions without further information
and detail from Plaintiff. Thus, the Court is currently unable to award
sanctions.                   III.         
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The Court reminds the parties that civil discovery is intended to be a
self-executing system with minimal judicial intervention. (See Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Ct. (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331; Clement
v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1291-1292.) In this case, Defendant
did not respond to the May 29, 2024, meet and confer email delivered by
Plaintiff’s counsel.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Special Interrogatories (Set One) and orders Defendant to comply with
Plaintiff’s requests within 30 days of this order.
Moving party to give notice.
  Dated: June 27, 2024
 




 


 




 


JARED D. MOSES
Judge
  of the Superior Court



