 Case Number:  21STCV37863    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  T DEFENDANT LYFT, INC.’s MOTION TO COMPEL AN
INDEPENDENT NEUROSURGERY EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFFMOVING PARTY:            Lyft, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY:  None.
TENTATIVE RULING:   GrantedThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition was filed.BACKGROUND
On October 14, 2021, Plaintiff
Nikeia Toi Mccaa (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Defendant”), asserting causes
of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence, arising out of a
collision that occurred on October 20, 2019 in Long Beach, California. 
On March 28, 2024,
Defendant filed this motion for an order compelling a mental independent
medical examination (“IME”) of Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed. 
 LEGAL STANDARD
 Code of
Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2032.220(a) provides: 
 In any
case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the
following conditions are satisfied:  (1)¿The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive.  (2)¿The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee. 
 CCP section
2031.310 states: 
 (a)¿If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical
examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with¿Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  (b)¿A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall
specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under¿Section 2016.040.   (c)¿Notice of the motion shall be served on the person to
be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action. 
 CCP section 2032.320(a) provides: “The court shall grant a
motion for a physical or mental examination under¿Section 2032.310¿only for good cause
shown.” 
¿       “Section
2036 defines a showing of ‘good cause’ as requiring that the party produce
specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the
subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior. Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 840.)
  The
examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the
action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be
directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the
litigation.  (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330,
337.)  Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical
condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or
physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege
that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state
is in controversy.”  (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 837 [wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual
harassment by former employer].)  Discovery responses can also frame the
issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.   The good cause
requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See Shapira
v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) DISCUSSION  Defendant moves to compel a
neurosurgery examination of Plaintiff within 60 days of this order, or no later
than 30 days before trial, whichever is sooner. Defendant argues that good
cause exists for conducting the examination because Plaintiff is making a claim
for injuries to her bilateral knees, back, neck, head, hips, and emotional
stress. Plaintiff has also suffered a stroke after the accident. During her
deposition, Plaintiff testified that she still has constant neck and back pain
which she described as burning and radiating. Sometimes her neck pain keeps her
up at night. Plaintiff claims that her pain is getting worse.   Based on the foregoing and in absence of an
opposition contesting any of the facts set forth in motion, the Court finds
good cause to grant the motion.  The Court does note that Defendant’s motion
does not contain the time of the proposed examination as required by Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).  However, given that the requested relief is
only that the examination be ordered during a specific time frame, the Court
still finds good cause to grant the motion. 
CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.  The examination is to take place within the
next 30 days at the office of Dr. Cary Alberstone at 1700 N. Rose Avenue, Suite
250, Oxnard CA 93030.  The parties are
ordered to meet and confer with respect to the specific date and time.  The parties may stipulate in writing to the
examination being conducted at a
different location.  Defendant is encouraged but not required to make accommodations for any limitations Plaintiff may have regarding travel.  
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.