  Case Number:  21STCV20591    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgmentMOVING PARTY:
            Defendant State of California,
acting by and through the California Highway Patrol 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       None
The court
considered the moving papers. The motion is unopposed.
BACKGROUND
This is an action
for negligence arising from a vehicle collision which took place in August
2020. Plaintiff Margarita Beltran (“Plaintiff”) filed her Complaint against
Defendants the California Department of Transportation, California Highway
Patrol (“CHP”), the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority,
the City of Long Beach, the County of Los Angeles, Kenny’s Auto Service, II,
and John Doe on June 2, 2021.
On July 11, 2023, CHP
filed the instant motion for summary judgment. The motion is unopposed.
LEGAL STANDARD
            A motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a
mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether,
despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
It must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment carries the initial “burden of showing that
a cause of action has no merit” by proving that “one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p).)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Ibid.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the opposing party must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿
JUDICIAL NOTICE
CHP Request for Judicial of the Government
Claim filed by Plaintiff and received by City on February 8, 2021, is GRANTED. See
Gong v. City of Rosemead, 226 Cal. App. 4th 363, 368 n.1 (2014) (“The
court may take judicial notice of the filing and contents of a government
claim, but not the truth of the claim.”)¿
DISCUSSION
            CHP moves for summary judgment on
the basis that Plaintiff’s case rests entirely on proving that CHP employs the
tow truck driver involved in the subject vehicle collision, and she cannot as a
matter of fact or by operation of law under California’s Freeway Service Patrol
program (“FSP”).
            As to general employment, CHP argues
that CHP has no contract under the FSP for the services of Kenny’s Auto or its
individual tow truck driver. (UMF Nos. 25-27.) CHP’s dispatch and Computer
Aided Dispatch (“CAD”) logs do not mention the tow truck’s collision with
another vehicle, and in fact CHP only learned of the accident after it
occurred. (UMF No. 32.) Thus, there is no evidence or basis to conclude that
CHP was the tow truck driver’s general employer.
            CHP also relies on State ex rel.
Dept. of California Highway Patrol v. Superior Court (2015) 60 Cal.4th
1002, 1007 (“Alvarado”) The court in Alvarado noted that the legislature
contemplated generally that local agencies would contract with tow truck
employers to provide FSP services. (State ex rel. Dept. of California
Highway Patrol v. Superior Court (2015) 60 Cal.4th 1002, 1013.) The court
there concluded that the language of the FSP statutory scheme alone does not
support a finding that CHP was a special employer of FSP tow truck drivers. (Id.
at 1015.) However, the holding did “not eliminate the possibility that CHP
might act as a special employer if it takes on responsibilities beyond those
outlined in the FSP statutes” because CHP is permitted to “make its own
agreements with tow service providers in addition to the primary contracts
between providers and local transportation agencies.” (Ibid.) 
            CHP points out that Plaintiff does
not even allege that there was a special employment relationship between CHP
and the tow truck driver. Further, there are no facts or evidence showing that CHP
overstepped its role as established by the FSP and thereby created a special
employment relationship with Kenny’s Auto and/or its driver. 
            As Plaintiff has not alleged a
special employment relationship and unless CHP takes on responsibilities beyond
those outlined in the FSP statutes, there is no special employment relationship
as a matter of law under Alvarado, the Court finds that CHP has met its
initial burden.
            The burden now shifts to Plaintiff
to create a triable issue of material fact. As Plaintiff has failed to oppose,
the motion is GRANTED.  Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.