 Case Number:  24STCV05062    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VIG PRIVATE LENDING
  
        
  vs.
 
ILAN KENIG 

 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV05062   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 24, 2024




 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 5 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
            On
2/29/2024, Plaintiff Vig Private Lending, Inc (Plaintiff) filed an unlawful
detainer action against Defendant Ilan Kenig (Defendant). 
 
            On
3/13/2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint is invalid because it is not properly
verified, and because Plaintiff does not have standing to pursue this action.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees only in part.
 
            As
to the first contention,
Defendant argues that the Complaint is not properly verified because it is
verified by the property manager, and Defendant, as a corporation, must provide
verification from an officer. However, CCP section 446 expressly states “[w]hen
a corporation is a party, the verification may be made any officer
thereof.” (emphasis added.) The use of may, rather than shall, indicates that
corporations are not limited exclusively to verification by officer. Moreover,
CCP section 446 provides, “[w]hen the pleading
is verified by the attorney, or any other person except one of the parties, he
or she shall set forth in the affidavit the reasons why it is not made by one
of the parties.” Here, the verification affidavit by the property manager Vladimir
Valsky includes an explanation that he, rather than Plaintiff, verified the
Complaint because as the property manager he is the most knowledgeable about
the facts set forth in the Complaint. For this reason, the Court finds adequate
explanation as to how and why Mr. Valsky is more knowledgeable of the relevant
facts than Plaintiff. (See H.G. Bittleson Law & Collection Agency v.
Howard (1916) 172 Cal. 357, 361.) 
 
            As
for the second contention, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged that
it has standing because it only alleges that it is “the agent for owner
of, and entitled to immediate possession of the real property commonly known as
1355 Berea Place, Pacific Palisades, CA 90272…” (See Complaint ¶1,
emphasis added.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that its allegation that it is “entitled to
immediate possession of the real property commonly known as 1355 Berea Place,
Pacific Palisades, CA 90272” is sufficient. (See Complaint ¶12) However,
an allegation of standing and a right to possession, without any facts which
could show standing, are conclusory and therefore insufficient. Here,
Plaintiff alleges standing based on an assignment of the right of possession,
but admittedly does not allege assignment. While Plaintiff contends that “the
assignment need not be alleged as an element of the case,’ Plaintiff provides
no legal support for this contention. (“This failure to cite pertinent legal
authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins v. State of
California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived by failure to
cite legal authority). Moreover, while the Notice attached identifies
“Owner/Agent: VIG Private Lending, Inc., as manager for Yarden Consulting, LLC,”
the Court disagrees that this makes “abundantly clear who the owner is, and
that the owner has assigned the right to possession of the property to the
manager.” (Opp., 3: 12-13) The fact that Plaintiff’s Notice declares a right to
possession does not, on its own, show a right to possession. Rather, that is
conclusory and must be shown by supporting facts which could show such a
right of possession. 
 
Given that
this defect could be easily remedied by adding facts which expressly allege
assignment, the Court grants leave to amend.   
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 5 days leave to
amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 