  Case Number:  19STCV33111    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 



PRINCESS OBIENU 
  
        
  vs.
 
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
 


 Case
  No.:  19STCV33111
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 24, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is MOOT. The Court declines to award
sanctions at this time.
 
On September
17, 2019, Plaintiff Princess Obienu (Plaintiff) filed suit against the County
of Los Angeles Department of Health Services (Defendant), alleging: (1)
race/national origin discrimination; (2) disability discrimination; (3) failure
to accommodate disability; (4) failure to engage in the interactive process;
(5) violation of the California Family Rights Act (CFRA); (6) violation of the
CFRA – Interference with Family Leave Rights; (7) violation of CFRA –
retaliation; (8) failure to prevent/correct discrimination; and (9)
retaliation.
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to her Requests for Production
(RFP) (Set Three)  
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to compel further responses to her RFPs (Set
Three). 
 
            In
opposition, Defendants indicate that as of 4/9/2024, Defendants supplemented
their responses and emailed all non-privileged responsive documents. 
 
            Accordingly,
the substance of this motion is moot.
 
            Moreover,
the Court finds sanctions to be unwarranted, given inadequate efforts to meet
and confer. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is moot. The
Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 