  Case Number:  23STCP00750    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  85 
 
Fiber First Los Angeles
et al. v. County of Los Angeles et al, 23STCP00750

 
Tentative decision on (1) motion to file under seal:
conditionally granted; (2) motion to augment the administrative record: granted  in part




 
 
 
            Petitioners
Fiber First Los Angeles, Mothers of East LA, Union Binacional De Organizaciones
De Trabajadores Mexicanos Exbraceros 1942-1964, Boyle Heights Community
Partners, United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians in Oklahoma, California
Fires & Firefighters, Malibu for Safe Tech, EMF Safety Network,
Californians for Safe Technology, 5G Free California, and Children’s Health
Defense move to augment the administrative record with 20 documents (Exhibits
1-20).  
            Respondents
County of Los Angeles (“County”), County Board of Supervisors (“Board”), County
Regional Planning Commission (“Planning Commission”), County Department of
Regional Planning (“Planning Department”), and County Department of Public
Works (“DPW”) (collectively, “County”) separately move to seal Exhibits 1-11
filed by Petitioners conditionally under seal. 
The court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,
and reply for the motion to augment the record, and the moving papers for the
motion to seal (no opposition was filed),[1]
and renders the following tentative decisions. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
            1.
First Amended Petition
            On
March 7, 2023, Petitioners filed the Petition against Respondent County.  The operative pleading is the First Amended
Petition (“FAP”), which alleges (1) project ineligibility for exemptions under
the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”); (2) failure to substantially
support findings; (3) unlawful collocation; (4) general plan inconsistency; (5)
violation of County legislative land use and zoning process; (6) improper
blanket designation of permit approval process as ministerial and unlawful precommitment
to future approvals, including under CEQA; (7) violation of constitutional due
process; and (8) unlawful delegation of legislative authority to an
administrative agency.  The FAP alleges
in pertinent part as follows.
 
            a.
Ordinance Planning
            The
project at issue is an ordinance (“Project” or “Ordinance”) establishing
regulations for the review and permitting of wireless telecommunication
facilities.  Before its adoption, Planning
Department policy required a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) for a wireless
facility.  It would then process the CUP
similar to those CUPs for radio and television towers.  The process was discretionary and required consideration
of proper integration with the surrounding community, including public
notification of the application by publication, mail, and a sign posted on the
property and a public hearing.  To be
complete, an application needed to conform with the requirements in County Code
sections 22.222.060 et seq.
            On
March 5, 2019, the Board instructed the Planning Department Director to prepare
an ordinance establishing standards for the location, height, and design of
wireless communication facilities. The Planning Department was required to conduct
outreach to residents and interested parties, prepare an appropriate
environmental document to comply with both CEQA and the County’s environmental
review procedures, and present the ordinance and environmental document to the Planning
Commission and Board for consideration at their respective hearings.
            On March
23, 2022, the Planning Department presented to the Planning Commission amendments
to Title 22 of the Los Angeles County Code (“LACC”) (“Title 22 Amendments”).  The proposal did not include amendments to
LACC Title 16.  Over vigorous public
opposition, the Planning Commission recommended Board approval of the Title 22
Amendments.  
            In a Proposed
Environmental Determination also dated March 23, 2022, the Planning Department asserted
that the Title 22 Amendments qualified for a Class 1 and Class 3 Exemption to
CEQA because the Project authorized modifications to existing facilities and
minor alterations to land with the construction or conversion of small
structures and neither action would have a significant environmental effect.
            At a public
hearing on November 15, 2022, the Board discussed the Title 22 Amendments with
County staff, accepted public comment, passed a motion indicating its intent to
approve the Project, and made a finding that the Project is exempt from CEQA.  The Board continued to discuss the Project
with County staff and accept public comment through January 10, 2023.
            On January
3, 2023, County staff proposed amendments to the Ordinance.  The agenda for the Board’s January 10, 2023 hearing
made these changes public.  The
amendments added changes to LACC Titles 16 and 22.  One change to LACC section 16.25.030.B.2
authorized the County’s Road Commissioner (“Commissioner”) to amend a design
standards checklist and permit conditions for small cell facilities (“SCFs”) and
eligible facilities requests (“EFRs”).  The
Board approved the Ordinance at the January 10, 2023 hearing.
            On January
25, 2023, the Planning Department released a “Small Cell Wireless
Communications Facilities Design Standards Self-Assessment Checklist” (“Self-Assessment
Checklist”) without circulation for public comment.  The Self-Assessment Checklist addressed wireless
facilities now subject to LACC Title 16 and facilities not on County
infrastructure or on County highways. 
The Commissioner made several subjective and/or policy decisions in the Self-Assessment
Checklist.  Petitioners do not know why the
Planning Department covered matters assigned to DPW.
            On the same
day, the Planning Department released a “Land Use Application Checklist - Small
Cell Facilities, Collocations and Eligible Facilities Requests” (“Application
Checklist”) without circulation for public comment.  The Commissioner made several subjective and/or
policy decisions in this document, including insurance coverage requirements
and the notice radius.
            On February
7, 2023, DPW published a “Small Cell Facility in Public Right of Way Design
Standards Checklist” (“Standards Checklist”) without circulation for
public comment.  The Commissioner made
several subjective and/or policy decisions in this document.  These included insurance coverage
requirements, the minimum distance a facility must be from residential windows,
size limitations, applicable safety standards, and certain aesthetics
requirements. These specifics are not contained in the Ordinance.
 
            b.
The Ordinance 
            The
Ordinance allows the construction of new support structures to serve small cell
and macro facilities.  EFRs also would
include collocated
wireless facilities.  A wire facility
could be up to 75 feet high in industrial, rural, agricultural, open space,
resort-recreation, and watershed zones. 
If a wireless facility is used to provide temporary service, it can be
up to 200 feet in height for up to six months. 

            The
Ordinance does not estimate how many of these structures can be built.  It does not limit the amount of new SCFs and
macro facilities built pursuant to the Project, including those on a Scenic Highway
or in a Significant Ecological Area, Significant Ridgeline, or Coastal Zone.  The Ordinance permits installation of new
towers and support structures on properties listed or eligible for listing on
the National, California, or County historic registers.  
            If a
facility is on a site with an eligible resource, the Ordinance allows but does
not require the Planning Department Director to order a historic resource
assessment to identify impacts to historic resources and mitigation to minimize
such impacts.  The Ordinance does not
include any mitigation measures, limit the number of facilities in any one
location, or address the cumulative impacts of such facilities.
            The
Commissioner has the authority to (1) adopt and amend a design standards
checklist and permit conditions for SCFs and EFRs, (2) approve or disapprove an
applicant’s engineered plans for small cell facilities to mount on new or
replacement County infrastructure, and (3) grant a permit when satisfied the
application meets all applicable requirements. 
The Commissioner’s action on an application would be the County’s final
action.
SCFs must comply with a design standards checklist the Commissioner
adopts. The Commissioner may approve the structural analysis of the effect of
placement of SCFs on County infrastructure.
            The Planning
Department Director may periodically amend the Application Checklist and the
Zoning Permit Instructions and Checklist. 
If a zone or land use category within a Specific Plan is silent about wireless
facilities, the Director may accept an application for a wireless facility if he
or she determines such facilities are similar to another permitted use in that
zone or category.
            The
Ordinance also outlines the process and eligibility for a Ministerial Plan
Review of existing macro facilities, EFRs, and SCFs on private property.
 
            c.
The County General Plan
            Guiding
Principle 1 of the County General Plan is to protect and conserve the County’s natural
and cultural resources, including the character of rural communities.  This promotes land use development in rural
areas that is compatible with the natural environment and landscape.
            The
General Plan also seeks to: (1) discourage development in riparian habitats and
woodlands to support preservation in their natural state; (2) protect scenic
resources through land use regulations that mitigate development impacts; (3)
protect ridgelines from incompatible development that diminishes their scenic
value; (4) mitigate all impacts from new development on or adjacent to
historic, cultural, and paleontological resources; (5) support an inter-jurisdictional
collaborative system that protects and enhances such resources; and (6) ensure
proper notification and recovery processes for development on or near such
resources.
 
            d.
Relief
            Petitioners
seek a writ of mandate compelling the County to vacate Project approvals, perform
an adequate CEQA
review, and ensure public notice, review, comment, and participation as
required by law.  Petitioners seek
injunctive relief enjoining the County from taking any action to implement the
Project until it complies comply with CEQA. 
Petitioners also seek declaratory relief that the County violated its CEQA
duties.
 
            2. Course
of Proceedings
            On March 13,
2023, Petitioners served the County with the Petition and Summons.
            On
September 9, 2023, the County filed an Answer to the Petition.
            On October
25, 2023, the parties stipulated that Petitioners could file an FAP and the
court would take the County’ motion for judgment on the pleadings from the calendar.
            On November
2, 2023, Petitioners filed and served the FAP.
 
            B. The
Motion to Seal
            In
support of their motion to augment, Petitioners filed redacted copies of Exhibits
1-11 attached
to the Declaration of Naira Soghbatyan (“Soghbatyan”) filed in
support of Petitioners’ motion to augment the record and lodged
unredacted copies conditionally under seal.  The County moves to seal the unredacted
copies of Exhibits 1-11 
 
            1. Applicable
Law 
            The
California Supreme Court has held that a court cannot seal a record without
first finding an overriding interest in support of sealing.  NBC
Subsidiary (KNBCTV), Inc. v. Superior Court, (“NBC Subsidiary”)
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-18.  Under appropriate circumstances, such
interests may include: protection of minor victims of sex crimes from further
trauma and embarrassment; privacy interests of a prospective juror during
individual voir dire; protection of witnesses from embarrassment or
intimidation so extreme that it would traumatize them or render them unable to
testify; of trade secrets, protection of information within the attorney-client privilege,
and enforcement of binding contractual obligations not to disclose;
safeguarding national security, ensuring the anonymity of juvenile offenders in
juvenile court; and ensuring the fair administration of justice, and
preservation of confidential investigative information.  Id. at
1222, n. 46. 
            CRC 2.550
and 2.551 are based on NBC Subsidiary and set forth the standards and
procedures for sealing court records.  Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open. CRC
2.550(c).  The Advisory Committee Comment to CRC 2.550 provides that the
rules recognize the First Amendment right of access to documents used at trial
or as a basis of adjudication, but do not apply to records that courts must
keep confidential by law. 
            A court
may order records sealed only if it expressly finds all of the following: (1)
there exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) a
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed;  (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and  (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.  CRC 2.550(d). 
            CRC
2.551(b) provides the procedure for sealing: (1) a party requesting that a
record be filed under seal must file a noticed motion for an order sealing the
record.  The motion must be accompanied by a memorandum of points and
authorities and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing; (2) the party requesting that a record be filed under seal must lodge
it with the court pursuant to CRC 2.551(d)(1) when the motion is made, unless
good cause exists for not lodging it.  Pending the determination of the
motion, the lodged record will be conditionally under seal; (3) if necessary to
prevent disclosure, the motion, any opposition, and any supporting documents
must be filed in a public redacted version and lodged in a complete version conditionally
under seal; and (4) if the court denies the motion to seal, the clerk must
return the lodged record to the submitting party and must not place it in the
case file. 
            When a party
produces records produced in discovery that are subject
to a confidentiality agreement or protective order, and does not itself intend
to request to have the records sealed, it must (i) lodge the unredacted records
subject to the agreement and any pleadings, memorandums, declarations, and
other documents disclosing the contents thereof; (ii) file redacted copies of
those documents that do not disclose the contents subject to the
confidentiality agreement or protective order; and (iii) give written notice to
the party that produced the records that they will be publicly filed unless
that party files a timely motion or application to seal the records.  CRC 2.551(b)(3)(A).  If the party that produced the documents and
was served with the notice fails to file such a motion or application within
ten days or obtain a court order extending the time for filing, the clerk must
promptly transfer all the documents from the envelope or secure electronic file
to the public file.  CRC 2.551(b)(3)(B).
            A record
filed publicly in the court must not disclose material contained in a record
that is sealed, conditionally under seal, or subject to a pending motion to
seal.  CRC 2.551(c). 
            The party
requesting that a record be filed under seal must put it in a manila envelope
or other appropriate container, seal the envelope or container, and lodge it
with the court.  CRC 2.551(d)(1).  The envelope or container lodged
with the court must be labeled "CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL."  CRC
2.551(d)(2).  The party submitting the lodged record must affix to the
envelope or container a cover sheet that: (i) contains all the information required on a caption page
under rule 201; and (ii) states that the enclosed record is subject to a motion
to file the record under seal.  CRC 2.551(d)(3). 

            Upon
receipt of a record lodged under this rule, the clerk must endorse the affixed
cover sheet with the date of its receipt and must retain but not file the
record unless the court orders it filed.  CRC 2.551(d)(4). 
            If the record was
previously lodged under CRC 2.551(b)(3)(A)(i), the moving party need not lodge
it again.  CRC 2.551(b)(4).
            The
leading case for sealing orders is Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior
Court, (“Universal City”) (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273.  To
determine whether records should be sealed, the court must hold a hearing and
expressly find that (i) there exists an overriding interest supporting closure
and/or sealing; (ii) there is a substantial probability that the interest will
be prejudiced absent closure and/or sealing; (iii) the proposed closure and/or
sealing is narrowly tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (iv) there
is no less restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest.  Id.
at 1279. 
 
            2. Statement
of Facts
            Before
filing the Petition, Petitioners submitted a California Public Records Act (“CPRA”)
request for documents relating to the Project. 
Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶2.  In its
response, the County inadvertently produced documents containing attorney-client
communications between County staff and County Counsel and between County staff
and outside counsel at the law firm of Best Best & Krieger (“BBK”).  Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶2.  This includes the privileged documents that
are Exhibits 1-11 to the motion to augment the record.  Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶2; Soghbatyan
Decl. Exs. 1-11.
            On
June 23, 2023, the County received a proposed draft administrative record index
without the underlying documents.  Tehrani
Seal Decl., ¶3.  When it reviewed this
index, the County learned that Petitioners sought to include various draft
documents as part of the administrative record. 
Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶3.  On July
21, 2023, the County asked Soghbatyan for a link to the draft documents the
Petitioners intended to include.  Tehrani
Seal Decl., ¶3.  When the County received
the link, it reviewed the documents and learned that the documents included
attorney-client privileged communications. 
Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶3.
            On
July 25, 2023, the County informed Petitioners that it was not willing to
stipulate to leave the draft documents in the record.  Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶4.  The privileged documents were inadvertently
produced, and inadvertent disclosure does not waive privilege.  Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶4.  The County asked Petitioners to delete the privileged
documents from the index.  Tehrani Seal
Decl., ¶4.  Petitioners did not indicate
an intent to comply.  Tehrani Seal Decl.,
¶5.  On August 10, 2023, the County
certified the administrative record without the privileged documents.  Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶6.  
            On
October 31, 2023, Petitioners filed the motion to augment the record and sent
the County two emails.  Tehrani Seal
Decl., ¶7.  The first email included an
unredacted copy of the motion, including the privileged documents.  Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶7.  The second email was a redacted copy of the
privileged documents.  Tehrani Seal
Decl., ¶7.  The first email advised the
County that Petitioners were lodging the unredacted copy that day and gave
notice that the County had ten days to file an application to seal the records
under CRC 2.551(b)(3)(B).  Tehrani Seal
Decl., ¶7.
 
            3.
Analysis
            The
County moves to seal Exhibits 1-11 that it contends contain privileged comments.  Mot. at 9. 

            If the party that
produced the documents and was served with the notice fails to file such a
motion or application within ten days or obtain a court order extending the
time for filing, the clerk must promptly transfer all the documents from the
envelope or secure electronic file to the public file.  CRC 2.551(b)(3)(B).
            On
October 31, 2023, Petitioners filed the motion to augment the record, lodged a conditionally
sealed copy of its motion with the unredacted copies of the privileged documents,
and gave the County electronic notice that it had ten days to file a motion to
seal.  Tehrani Seal Decl., ¶7.  The County filed and served this motion on
November 14, 2023.  The County assert
that Petitioners served the notice by email, and therefore it is entitled to a
two-day extension on the deadline to file this sealing motion under CCP section
1010.6(a)(3)(B).[2]  Mot. at 9. 

The deadline was therefore 12 days after notice, or November
12, 2023.  Because this was a Sunday,
this deadline was extended to the next court day, November 13, 2023.  See CRC 1.10(b).  The motion is untimely by one day.  Nonetheless, the court will address its
merits.  
The County contends that the Exhibits 1-11 exhibits contain
attorney-client privileged communications inadvertently disclosed in response
to Petitioners’ CPRA request.  The merits
of the privilege argument are addressed in the court’s ruling on the motion to
augment post.  For purposes of
sealing, the court will assume that Exhibits 1-11 contain attorney-client
privileged information.
Attorney-client privileged materials meet the
requirements of sealing. NBC Subsidiary, supra,
20 Cal.4th at 1217-18.  For purposes
of this motion, the court finds that (i) there exists an overriding interest supporting closure
and/or sealing, (ii) there is a substantial probability that the interest will
be prejudiced absent closure and/or sealing, and (iv) there is no less
restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest.  Universal City,
supra, 110 Cal.App.4th 1273.  
However, the 11 exhibits include far more material than the allegedly
privileged comments.  The County argues that the redacted and filed versions of
Petitioners’ motion to augment and accompanying exhibits meet the sealing requirement
that (iii) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly tailored to serve
the overriding interest.  The court has
not compared the two sets of sealed and redacted exhibits.  At hearing, the court will require assurances
that the filed documents redact only the specific comments to or from attorneys
in the 11 exhibits (the moving papers contain no such comments and need not be
redacted).  
The motion to seal Exhibits 1-11 is
granted, subject to assurance that the redacted and filed exhibits redact only comments
to and from attorneys.
 
            C.
The Motion to Augment the Record
1. CEQA Administrative Record
            For
cases arising under CEQA, the content of the administrative record is governed
by Public Resources Code section 21167.6(e) (“section 21167.6”):
 
“(e) The record of proceedings shall include, but is not
limited to, all of the following items:
            (1) All
project application materials.
            (2) All
staff reports and related documents prepared by the respondent public agency
with respect to its compliance with the substantive and procedural requirements
of this division and with respect to the action on the project.
            (3) All
staff reports and related documents prepared by the respondent public agency
and written testimony or documents submitted by any person relevant to any
findings or statement of overriding considerations adopted by the respondent
agency pursuant to this division.
            (4) Any
transcript or minutes of the proceedings at which the decisionmaking body of
the respondent public agency heard testimony on, or considered any
environmental document on, the project, and any transcript or minutes of
proceedings before any advisory body to the respondent public agency that were
presented to the decisionmaking body prior to action on the environmental
documents or on the project.



            (5) All
notices issued by the respondent public agency to comply with this division or
with any other law governing the processing and approval of the project.
            (6) All
written comments received in response to, or in connection with, environmental
documents prepared for the project, including responses to the notice of
preparation.
            (7) All
written evidence or correspondence submitted to, or transferred from, the
respondent public agency with respect to compliance with this division or with
respect to the project.
            (8) Any
proposed decisions or findings submitted to the decisionmaking body of the
respondent public agency by its staff, or the project proponent, project
opponents, or other persons.
            (9) The
documentation of the final public agency decision, including the final
environmental impact report, mitigated negative declaration, or negative
declaration, and all documents, in addition to those referenced in paragraph
(3), cited or relied on in the findings or in a statement of overriding
considerations adopted pursuant to this division.
            (10) Any
other written materials relevant to the respondent public agency's
compliance with this division or to its decision on the merits of the
project, including the initial study, any drafts of any environmental
document, or portions thereof, that have been released for public review, and
copies of studies or other documents relied upon in any environmental document
prepared for the project and either made available to the public during the
public review period or included in the respondent public agency's files on the
project, and all internal agency communications, including staff notes and
memoranda related to the project or to compliance with this division.
            (11) The
full written record before any inferior administrative decisionmaking body
whose decision was appealed to a superior administrative decisionmaking body
prior to the filing of litigation.” (emphasis added).”
 
            Section
21167.6(e) “contemplates that the administrative record will include pretty
much everything that ever came near a proposed development or to the agency’s
compliance with CEQA in responding to that document.”  County of Orange v. Superior Court, (“Orange”)
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1, 8.  
            Extrinsic
evidence is generally not admissible for quasi-adjudicatory administrative
mandamus challenging a permit; review is confined to the record.  Western States Petroleum Association v.
Superior Court, (“Western States”) (1995) 9 Cal.4th 559, 573.  Evidence outside the record may be considered
at trial only if it (1) could not with reasonable diligence have been presented
at the administrative hearing, or (2) was improperly excluded at the
hearing.  CCP §1094.5(e); Transcentury
Properties, Inc. v. State of California, (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 835, 842. 
            The
trial court makes determinations of the completeness of the administrative
record.  Madera Oversight Coalition,
Inc. v. County of Madera,  (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 48, 63 [131
Cal.Rptr.3d 626, 637] disapproved of
by Neighbors for Smart Rail v. Exposition Metro Line Construction
Authority, (2013) 57 Cal.4th 439. 
Specifically, the trial court resolves disputes between the parties over
what should be included in, or excluded from, the administrative record.  Ibid. 
            Section
21167.6(e) is not an abrogation of the attorney-client privilege or work
product privilege, and those privileges are still applicable.  California Oak Foundation v. County of
Tehama, (“Oak”) (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1221.  The party claiming the attorney-client
privilege or the attorney work-product doctrine has the burden of establishing
the preliminary facts necessary to show that the privilege applies.  Citizens for Ceres v. Superior Court,
(“Ceres”) (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 889, 911.  This preliminary showing is normally made
through declarations.  Ibid.
 
            2.
Statement of Facts
            a.
Petitioners’ Evidence
            (1).
The Exhibits
            In
response to Petitioners’ CPRA request, the County produced nine redlined drafts
of the Ordinance created during April 2020 to May 2022 (Exhibits 1-9), two
drafts of the Ordinance’s changes to Titles 16 (Exhibit 10) and 22 (Exhibit 11),
various communications and presentations between County departments and
agencies (“Exhibits 12-18), and two more redlined copies of Titles 16 (Exhibit
19) and 22 (Exhibit 20).  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶23, Exs. 1-20.
            Redlined
edits on Exhibits 1-11 and 19 include comments, notes, and questions.  Soghbatyan Decl., Exs. 1-11, 19.  The margins identify the comments by the
writer’s initials instead of names. 
Soghbatyan Decl., Exs. 1-9.  Some
of the comments from “AM,” “BG,” or “DE” in Exhibits 1-2, 4-5, and 10-11 begin
with the initials “BBK.”  Soghbatyan
Decl., Exs. 1-2, 4-5, 10-11.  Other
commenters were “ST” and “WC.”  Soghbatyan
Decl., Ex. 1.  Some of the comments in Exhibits
7-9 are made by “CRL,” “SC,” and “TR.” 
Soghbatyan Decl., Exs. 7-9.
            
            (2).
Record Preparation
            Petitioners
elected to prepare the administrative record. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶24.  In July
2023, the County reviewed Petitioners’ 
draft index.  Soghbatyan Decl.,
¶24.  In a July 14, 2023 email, the
County asserted that it had deleted index entries that appeared to be drafts of
documents so that only final versions would be in the record.  Soghbatyan Decl., Ex. 21, p. 23.  In the attached draft index, the County had
stricken Exhibits 10-20 but not Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., Ex. 21, pp.  30-32. 
            On
July 20, 2023, Petitioners objected that the removal of the draft documents is inconsistent
with case law and section 21167.6(e).  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶24, Ex. 21, p. 45.  Petitioners ask
the County if they could leave those exhibits in the record to avoid a motion
to augment.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶24, Ex.
21, p. 45.  
            On July 21,
2023, the County asked for a copy of the documents that it had marked on the
index as possibly being drafts.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶24, Ex. 21, p. 47.  Counsel
stated that the index was not very specific as to certain entries and the Count
was unsure what documents were being referenced.  Id. 
Later that day, Soghbatyan emailed a Dropbox link to Exhibits 10-20 and
identified them as the documents the County proposed to remove as drafts.  Soghbatyan Decl., Ex. 21, p. 51.  
            On July 24,
2024, Soghbatyan followed up by asking if the County had a chance to review the
draft documents in the link she sent, and if it would stipulate to leave those
documents in the record.  Soghbatyan
Decl., Ex. 21, p. 53.
The County responded in a July 25, 2023 email that, after
reviewing Petitioners’ link, it would not stipulate to leave the drafts in the
record.  Soghbatyan Decl., Ex. 21, p. 58.  The documents included attorney-client
privileged documents that the County inadvertently produced.  Soghbatyan Decl., Ex. 21, p. 58.  Inadvertent disclosure does not waive
privilege, and the County asked the Petitioners to delete the privileged documents.  Soghbatyan Decl., Ex. 21, p. 58.  
            Later that
day, Soghbatyan asked the County to provide a list of all documents for which
it asserted attorney-client privilege and information supporting the privilege,
including whether legal advice was provided and with whom the documents were
shared.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶24, Ex. 21,
p. 61.  Petitioners agreed temporarily to
remove the documents the County had marked as drafts (Exhibits 10-20) but
needed the requested information on the invoked privilege and the list of
documents Petitioners may seek to address in a motion to augment.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶24, Ex. 21, p. 61. 
            By this
point, the County had not objected to the inclusion of Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶25.  Petitioners therefore Bates-stamped Exhibits
1-9 as AR 7307-7517 and included them in the record submitted to the County for
certification.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶25,
Exs. 1-9.  
            On
August 9, 2023, County Supervising Planner Bruce Durbin (“Durbin”) certified
the record.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶24, Ex.
21, p. 67.  When the Petitioners reviewed
the certified record, they found that the County had unilaterally removed Exhibits
1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶25.  
            On
August 15, 2023, Petitioners informed the court of their intent to file the
motion to augment the record.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶26.  In a meet-and-confer email on
August 16, 2023, Petitioners asked the County to specify the grounds for
removal of each of Exhibits 1-9 and 10-20. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶26, Ex. 22.
            The
next day, the County replied that the Exhibits are either (1) drafts whose
inclusion was not proper under section 21167.6(e), or (2) protected under
attorney-client privilege.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶26, Ex. 22.  It asserted that
section 21167.6(e) only requires the record to include drafts that were
released for public review.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶26, Ex. 22.  This includes draft environmental
impact reports (“EIRs”), mitigated negative declarations (“MNDs”), and other
environmental documents subject to public review under CEQA.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶26, Ex. 22.
            On
August 22, 2023, Petitioners sent a meet-and-confer letter asserting
that the record must include drafts under section 21167.6(e).  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶27, Ex. 22.  As to attorney-client privilege, the County
had not provided a factual or legal basis for its claim that the Ordinance
drafts were subject to privilege or inadvertently produced.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶27, Ex. 22.  Petitioners renewed requests for facts supporting
both assertions, as well as a privilege log and confirmation that the County
has not shared the documents with third parties.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶27, Ex. 22.  
            On
August 29, 2023, BBK, the County’s counsel, asserted that the case relied on by
Petitioners, Orange, supra, 113 Cal.App. 4th at 7-8, does
not govern drafts.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶28,
Ex. 21, p. 18.  As for privilege, the
County already told Petitioners in its July 25, 2023 email that the production
of privileged documents was inadvertent. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶28, Ex. 21, p. 18. 
The documents were not shared with anyone else, and the County had no
obligation to provide a privilege log. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶28, Ex. 21, p. 19.
            On
September 25, 2023, the County provided a list of the reasons why it asserted
the attorney-client privilege and attorney work product doctrine for Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶29, Ex. 21, pp.
94-95.  This was the first time the
County invoked the attorney work product doctrine.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶29.
            The
County explained that, in Exhibits 1-6, “BBK” referred to the County’s outside
counsel, Best Best & Krieger. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶29, Ex. 21, p. 94. 
Comments with “AM” and “BG” reflect communication between the County and
BBK attorneys Andrew McCardle (“McCardle”) and Bennett Givens (“Givens”).  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶29, Ex. 21, p. 94.  Each document included multiple references to
BBK, and almost every comment in Exhibit 5 referenced BBK.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶29, Ex. 21, pp. 94-95.  Documents 7-9 included communications between
County staff and County counsel.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶29, Ex. 21, p. 95.  Comments with
“CRL,” “SC,” and “TR” refer to Senior Deputy Counsel Rosa Linda Cruz (“Cruz”), Deputy
County Counsel Carole Suzuki (“Suzuki”), and Senior Deputy County Counsel
Roland Trinh (“Trinh”).  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶29, Ex. 21, p. 95.  The County
acknowledged that the remainder of the documents at issue (Exs. 10-20) were
drafts without comment bubbles between County staff and either County Counsel
or BBK.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶29, Ex. 21,
p. 95.  
            In
another meet-and-confer letter on September 26, 2023, Petitioners asserted they
previously provided sufficient authority to show that section 21167.6(e)
includes drafts in CEQA records.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 1.  Petitioners
noted that the County’s September 25 email was silent on the issue of drafts
and only addressed attorney-client privilege in Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 2.  The terse responses about the margin notes
did not provide the factual foundation needed to determine if privilege
applies.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21,
p. 3.  These notes involved business advice
about how to draft the Ordinance, not legal advice on how to defend the
Ordinance’s final language from potential legal claims.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 7.  In an October 3, 2022 colloquy about the
administrative record, Durbin said that the County had not used BBK much since
finalizing the Ordinance language. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 7. 
The County had BBK comment on the Ordinance after “PW” suggested
additional language, but this was before the Planning Commission hearing in
March 2022.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex.
21, pp. 7-8.  Durbin added that the
County likely would not need additional BBK services unless “Roland” requested
it, or the County needed to clarify anything per FCC regulations when counsel
prepares the final version for consent. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 8. 

            Assuming
arguendo some of these notes are privileged, they cannot justify
invoking privilege as to the whole document. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 10. 
The Exhibits did not contain any notation that they were “confidential”
or “privileged.”  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30,
Ex. 21, p. 3.  The County also needed to
provide a legal representation letter to identify BBK’s client.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 4.  
            In
any case, the County’s July 25, 2023 email did not refer to Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 4.  The history of emails shows that the County referred
to drafts of Exhibits 10-20.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, pp. 4-5.  The County first
asserted attorney-client privilege for Exhibits 1-9 on August 16, 2023.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 5.  This occurred after Petitioners began
meet-and-confer efforts before a motion to augment the record.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 5.  Even then, the County still did not ask Petitioners
to delete Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 6.  
            The
County invoked the attorney work product for Exhibits 1-9 for the first time on
September 25, 2023.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30,
Ex. 21, p. 14.  Petitioners objected to
this based on waiver without inadvertence. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 14. 
As with attorney-client privilege, not all the notes in the margins
reflect attorney comments.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 14.
            After
meeting and conferring again on October 5, 2023, the parties could not reach an
agreement.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶31.
 
            b.
The County’s Evidence
            BBK
provided legal counsel to the County as it drafted the Ordinance.  Trinh Decl., ¶2.  It now serves as the attorney of record for
all the County.  Tehrani Augment Decl.,
¶1.
            On
January 20, 2023, before filing the Petition, Petitioners submitted a CPRA
request for documents relating to the Project. 
Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶2; Trinh Decl., ¶3.  The County produced thousands of pages in
response, and the administrative record in this case is over 47,000 pages.  Trinh Decl., ¶3.
            As
part of this CPRA response, the County inadvertently produced documents with
attorney-client communications between County staff and both County counsel and
outside counsel BBK.  Tehrani Augment Decl.,
¶2; Trinh Decl., ¶3.  This includes Exhibits
1-11.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶2.  
            BBK
attorneys communicating with the County and commenting on the privileged documents
included McCardle as “AM” and Givens as “BG.” 
Trinh Decl., ¶2; Tehrani Augment Decl., Ex. B.  County Counsel included Cruz as “CRL,” Suzuki
as “SC,” and Trinh as “TR.”  Trinh Decl.,
¶2; Tehrani Augment Decl., Ex. B.  All
attorneys provided their comments on the privileged documents in the scope of
attorney-client relationship with the County. 
Trinh Decl., ¶2.  The County has
not produced these documents to any third parties.  Trinh Decl., ¶4.  
            On
June 23, 2023, the County received a proposed draft administrative record index
without the underlying documents. 
Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶3.  When
it reviewed this index, the County learned that Petitioners sought to include
various draft documents as part of the administrative record.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶3.  On July 21, 2023, the County asked Soghbatyan
for a link to the draft documents Petitioners intended to include.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶3.  When the County received the link, it
reviewed the documents for the first time. 
Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶3.  It
then learned that the documents included attorney-client privileged
communications.  Tehrani Augment Decl.,
¶3.
            On
July 25, 2023, after reviewing the link sent by Petitioners, the County
informed Petitioners that it was not willing to stipulate to leave the draft documents
in the record.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶4,
Ex. A.  Those documents were
inadvertently produced, and inadvertent disclosure does not waive the
attorney-client privilege.  Tehrani Augment
Decl., ¶4, Ex. A.  The County asked Petitioners
to delete the privileged documents. 
Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶4, Ex. A. 

 
            3. Analysis
            Petitioners seek to
augment the administrative record with Exhibits 1-20.  The County objects that section 21167.6 does not
require the inclusion of drafts the agencies never circulated for public
review.  Opp. at 5-7.  The County also asserts the attorney-client
privilege for Exhibits 1-11.  Opp. at
8-9.
 
a. Section 21167.6(e)
            The administrative
record in a CEQA case should include any written materials relevant to the
respondent public agency's compliance with this division or to its decision on
the merits of the project, including the initial study, any drafts of
any environmental document, or portions thereof, that have been released for
public review, and copies of studies or other documents relied upon in any
environmental document prepared for the project and either made available to
the public during the public review period or included in the respondent public
agency's files on the project, and all internal agency communications,
including staff notes and memoranda related to the project or to compliance
with this division.  Public Resources
Code §21167.6(e)(10).
            The County asserts that
Exhibits 1-20 are drafts that should not be part of the administrative
record.  The County relies on the
language in section 21167.7(e)(10) that draft staff reports and ordinances are
not relevant to an agency’s compliance with CEQA or its decision on the project.  Porterville Citizens for Responsible
Hillside Development v. City of Porterville, (“Porterville”) (2007)
157 Cal.App.4th 885, 890 (fundamental CEQA precept is that courts
review the environmental documentation actually prepared and the evidence
actually used to prepare the environmental documentation).[3]  The draft ordinances at issue were not ever
referenced by any speaker at public hearings and never considered by any
decision-maker and do not qualify under section 21167.6(e)(10).  Opp. at 6. 
            While drafts of
environmental documentation that have been released for public review are
properly part of the record, that is only because CEQA requires the release of
certain documents to the public. 
Although Petitioners contend that section 21167.6(e)(10)’s discussion of
drafts of environmental documents released for public review does not limit the
inclusion of drafts relating to the project, that argument would render
superfluous the language “released for public review”.  This language would serve no purpose if all
drafts were required to be in the record whether or not reviewed by the public
or decision-makers.  Opp. at 7.
The County cites a
leading treatise, 2 Kostka & Zischke, Practice Under the Cal.
Environmental Quality Act (Cont. Ed. Bar 2023), (“Kostka”) §23.73, which states that preliminary documents preceding those documents circulated for
public review or submitted to the decision-making body are not treated as part
of the record.  Although treatises are
not binding authority, the court in Golden Door Properties, LLC v. Superior
Court of San Diego County, (“Golden Door”) (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
733, 772, n. 25 cited to this reference without disapproving it.  Opp. at 5.
            As Petitioners argue
(Reply at 8-9), Golden Door quoted the Kostka treatise statement in
ruling on a referee’s determination that non-official “e-mails and other
preliminary drafts are not included” in section 21167.6. 53 Cal.App.5th at 771.  The court did so while assuming without
deciding that the referee was correct that preliminary drafts should not be
included in the record.  Id. at
772.  The court then decided that the
referee wrongly conflated the mode of communication with substance; emails can
communicate both important and unimportant information.  Id. at 771-72.  An appellate decision is authority for the issues
actually considered and decided.  Santisas
v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 620. 

In any event, the
Kosta/Golden Door point about draft environmental documents is not the
issue.  As Petitioners argue, this action
involves CEQA and non-CEQA claims.  In
addition to environmental documents, section 21167.2.6(e)(10) states that the
administrative record in a CEQA case should include “[a]ny other
written materials relevant to the respondent public agency's compliance
with this division or to its decision on the merits of the project,
including…all internal agency communications, including staff notes and
memoranda related to the project or to compliance with this division.”  (emphasis added).  The same Kostka treatise
quotation cited by the County states that internal staff communications
relevant to the agency’s CEQA compliance or its decision on the project merits
are part of the record under section 21167.6(e)(10).  The redlined drafts of the Ordinance, with
their margin notes, are written materials relevant to the County’s decision on
the merits of the Project, and the margin comments and redlining qualify as internal
agency communications.  
The only drafts
excluded by section 21167.6(e)(10) are drafts of environmental documents that
were not released for public review. 
There is no language in section 21167.6(e)(10) that project drafts also
are excluded from the record.  If the
Legislature wanted to exclude all drafts in section 21167.6(e)(10), it could
easily have said so.  Instead, section
21167.6(e)(10) requires that CEQA administrative records include “any” written
material relevant to the agency’s decision on the merits of the project, including
“all” internal agency communications, staff notes, and memoranda related to the
project.  This construction is
consistent with the Orange court’s admonition that section 21167.6(e)(10)
“contemplates that the administrative record will include pretty much
everything that ever came near a proposed development or to the agency’s
compliance with CEQA in responding to that document.”  113 Cal.App.4th at 8.  
Nor does this interpretation render the section
21167.6(e)(10) language “released for public review” superfluous.  As interpreted, section 21167.6(e)(10)
contemplates two types of drafts: those for the project and those for
environmental documents.  All project
drafts must be included in the record but only drafts of environmental
documents that were released for public review must be included.  As the County states, drafts of environmental
documents released for public review must be included because judicial CEQA
review of the record includes the adequacy of the FEIR, which includes both the
draft EIR and subsequent public comment. 
Judicial review of the decision-makers’ approval of the project may
occur on various grounds -- some environmental and some not -- and it makes
sense to require inclusion of project drafts (in this case draft Ordinances).[4]
The draft Ordinances
and other documents in Exhibits 1-20 qualify for inclusion in the
administrative record under section 21167.6(e)(10). 
 
b. Attorney-Client Privilege
            The attorney-client privilege is a legislative creation
codified in the Evidence Code.  McKesson HBOC, Inc. v. Superior Court,¿(2004)
115 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1236.  Its purpose is to promote full and open
discussion between clients and their attorneys.  Ibid.  The
attorney-client privilege covers all forms of communication, including
transactional advice and advice in contemplation of threatened
litigation.  Titmas v. Superior Court,¿(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 738,
744. 
            Section 21167.6(e) is not an
abrogation of the attorney-client privilege or work product privilege, and
those privileges are still applicable.  Oak,
supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 1221.  
 
(1). Application of the
Privilege
A “confidential
communication between client and lawyer” is “information transmitted between a
client and his or her lawyer in the course of that relationship and in
confidence by a means which, so far as the client is aware, discloses the
information to no third persons other than those who are present to further the
interest of the client in the consultation or those to whom disclosure is
reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or the
accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted, and includes a
legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that
relationship.”  Evid. Code §952.  The attorney-client privilege is
the client’s privilege to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from
disclosing, a confidential communication between client and lawyer.  Evid.
Code §954.   
            Communications
between a client, attorney, and a third party do not destroy attorney-client
confidentiality if the communications (1) were confidential and (2) were
reasonably necessary to accomplish the client’s purpose in consulting
counsel.  Behunin v. Superior Court,¿(“Behunin”) (2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 833, 845, 849-50 (public relations consultant was not reasonably
necessary to the lawyer-client communication).  
The party claiming the
attorney-client privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts
necessary to support its exercise -- i.e., a communication made in the course of
an attorney-client relationship.  Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior
Court,¿(“Costco”) (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733.  These
preliminary facts are (a) information transmitted between and client and
lawyer, (b) in the course of a relationship, (c) in confidence, and it includes
a legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that
relationship.  Evid. Code §952.  Not every communication between an attorney
and client is privileged.  Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors v. Superior Court, (2016) 2 Cal.5th
296, 282.  The preliminary showing is
normally made through declarations.  Ceres, supra,
217 Cal.App.4th at 911.
If the preliminary facts show a communication made in
the course of an attorney-client relationship, the
communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and the opponent of
the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the communication
was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other reasons
apply.  Costco, supra, 47 Cal.4th at 733 (citing Evid. Code §917(a)).  However, where a
third party is present, no presumption of confidentiality obtains, and the
burden of proof rests with the proponent of the privilege to show that the
consultant is reasonably necessary to accomplish the client’s purpose in
consulting the attorney.  Behunin, supra,¿9 Cal.App.5th at
844-45. 
            Petitioners
assert that the County has failed to show (1) the County employees who
corresponded with BBK were BBK’s clients; (2) BBK’s comments were sought in
BBK’s professional capacity to represent those employees; (3) BBK provided
legal advice and not business advice; (4) BBK’s comments and questions were
provided in confidence, and the County employees perceived it as such; (5)
County employees were advised to keep such communications confidential; and (6)
the County employees never shared BBK’s notes with others.  Mot. at 14.
            BBK
provided legal counsel to the County as it drafted the Ordinance.  Trinh Decl., ¶2.  It now serves as the attorney of record for
all the County.  Tehrani Augment Decl.,
¶1.  Redlined
edits on Exhibits 1-11 include comments from “AM,” “BG,” “CRL,” “SC,” and
“TR.”  Soghbatyan Decl., Exs. 1-11.  These initials represent attorneys who are
part of either County Counsel or BBK as outside counsel.  Opp. at 8-9; Trinh Decl., ¶2; Tehrani Augment
Decl., Ex. B.  The County seeks to
exclude Exhibits 1-11 from the administrative record because they contain
attorney-client privileged communications. 
Opp. at 8.
            The
County has the burden of presenting preliminary facts showing that the attorney-client
privilege applies, but it may make a prima facie showing that the
communication occurred in the course of an attorney-client relationship.  ¿Costco, supra, 47 Cal.4th at
733.  The County’s declarations establish
that the County was and remains a BBK client. 
BBK and County attorneys provided comments to its clients’ employees on
Ordinance drafts (Exs. 1-9) and two other documents (Exs. 10-11) as part of
their representation of the County.  This
showing includes the first three of Petitioners’ six arguments.  
            Petitioners
argue that BBK’s comments were business rather than legal advice, and the
attorney-client privilege does not apply where the attorney merely acts as a
negotiator or provides business advice.  Aetna
Cas. & Sur. Co. v. Sup. Ct., (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 467, 476 (lawyer
retained to investigate claim and make insurance policy determination acted as classic
lawyer giving legal advice).  Aside from
the fact that Petitioners ignore the County Counsel’s comments, BBK was not
providing business advice.  BBK was not
negotiating a deal with another party. 
Nor was it advising the County on the politics or wisdom of adopting the
Ordinance in any draft or final form.  BBK
was commenting on the proposed language of the Ordinance and whether it could present
issues of law that could be remedied by different language.  That is an attorney-client communication that
generally is privileged.  
Petitioners cite Supervising Planner Durbin’s comments about
the Ordinance drafting process.  In
October 2022, Durbin said that the County had not used BBK much since
finalizing the Ordinance language. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 7. 
The County had BBK comment on the Ordinance after “PW” suggested
additional language, but this was before the Planning Commission hearing in
March 2022.  Ex. 21, pp. 7-8.  The County likely would not need additional
BBK services unless “Roland” requested it, or unless the County needed to
“clarify anything per FCC regulations” when counsel prepares the final version
for consent.  Ex. 21, p. 8.  Mot. at 16-17.
            Planner
Durkin’s statements do not aid Petitioners. 
He merely stated that the County did not use BBK much, except to comment
on the Ordinance language, and that the County will not use BBK further except
to clarify an FCC issue.  BBK’s comments in
Exhibits 1-11 were made in the course of finalizing the Ordinance’s language
and constitute advice on drafting the Ordinance with respect to clarity and
compliance with law.  BBK’s advice was
legal in nature.  
            Petitioners
note that all of BBK, County Counsel, and County staff made comments, which
demonstrates that the attorneys were giving business advice.  Petitioners cite Chicago Title Insurance
Co. v. Superior Court, (“CTI”) (1985), 174 Cal. App. 3d 1142, 1154,
where an attorney’s actions as the insurance company’s in-house counsel were so
intertwined with activities which were wholly business or commercial that a
clean distinction between the two roles became impossible.  This merging of business and legal activities
jeopardized attorney-client privilege because the attorney and the client in
effect were indistinguishable.  Id.
at 1154.  The CTI court
acknowledged that it only denied the privilege because of the “peculiar
surrounding circumstances” where insurance company claimed fraud and tried to
shield its knowledge by relying on attorney-client privilege.  Id. 
Reply at 13.  
            Petitioners
do not explain why CTI is pertinent. 
They point to no intermingling of BBK’s and County Counsel’s actions
with business matters; their only actions were to comment on draft
Ordinances.  
The County has met its burden of presenting preliminary
facts showing that the communications of BBK and County Counsel occurred in the
course of an attorney-client relationship with the County.  See¿Costco, supra, 47
Cal.4th at 733.  The communications are presumed to have been made in
confidence and Petitioners have the burden of proof to establish the
communication was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other
reasons apply.  Id. at 733.  
            With
respect to confidentiality, Petitioners provide no evidence to refute the
County’s assertion that it has not produced Exhibits 1-11 to any other
person.  Trinh Decl., ¶4.  Petitioners note the Exhibits do not say
“confidential” or “privilege” or have any other indicia of confidentiality
(Mot. to Aug. at 15), but they cite no authority that such designations are
necessary.  Petitioners cite League of
California Cities v. Superior Court, (2015) 241 Cal. App. 4th 976, 991,
where the court upheld the trial court’s conclusion that the attorney-client
privilege did not apply to emails between League members (an association of
cities) because they failed to explain who was the attorney and who was the
client.  Here, the County has done
so.  Trinh Decl., ¶2; Tehrani Augment
Decl., ¶1. [5]
             Petitioners argue that there are a number of
different commenters on the draft Ordinances who were neither BBK nor County
attorneys, including “ST” and “WC”.  Soghbatyan
Decl., Ex. 1.  Others do not identify the
commenter and may be mere communications between employees.  Still others are factual inquiries.  Mot. at 15. 
Additionally, Petitioners point out that the County cites no authority
that the court should exclude an entire document from the record when the
attorney-client privilege applies to only part of it.  Mot. to Aug. at 17.  
The court agrees.  The
entire draft in Exhibits 1-11 should not be excluded, only privileged
comments.  Additionally, because the
County has not described the revision process and who all the commenters were,
it is unclear whether all comments were directed to and seen by the attorneys
for the purpose of legal advice.  This is
a matter that could be subject to further examination through privilege log or
other means.  
            
            (2).
Waiver of the Privilege for Exhibits 1-9
            The parties dispute
whether the County waived the attorney-client privilege for Exhibits 1-9.  Mot. at 15-16; Opp. at 9.  
A governmental
entity's inadvertent release of privileged documents under the CPRA does not
waive the privilege.  Ardon v. City of
Los Angeles, (“Ardon”) (2016), 62 Cal. 4th 1176, 1180.  However, this rule is not an invitation for
agencies to recast past disclosures as inadvertent so that a privilege can be
reasserted subsequently.  Id. at 1190.  The agency’s characterization of a disclosure
as inadvertent is not dispositive.  Id.
at 1190-91.  Whether inadvertent
disclosure constituted waiver depends on both the subjective intent of the
holder of the privilege and the relevant surrounding circumstances for any
manifestation of the holder's consent to disclose the information.  Id. at 1191.
            The County produced them
among thousands of other pages in response to Petitioners’ CPRA request.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶2; Trinh Decl., ¶3.  The County asserts that it first learned
about this production when it reviewed Petitioners’ draft index on June 23,
2023.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶3.  At that time, the County noted that Petitioners
sought to include various draft documents. 
Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶3.  The
County asked for a link to those documents on July 21, 2023.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶3.  When it reviewed the documents through the
link, the County learned those documents included attorney-client privileged
communications.  Tehrani Augment Decl.,
¶3.
            On July 25, 2023, after
its review of the link Petitioners sent, the County informed Petitioners that it
was not willing to stipulate to leave the draft documents in the record.  Opp. at 9; Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶4, Ex. A.
Those documents were inadvertently produced, and inadvertent disclosure does
not waive the attorney-client privilege.  Opp. at 9; Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶4, Ex. A.  The County asked Petitioners to delete the
privileged documents.  Opp. at 9; Tehrani
Augment Decl., ¶4, Ex. A.
            Petitioners show that the
communications between the parties in July did not refer to Exhibits 1-9.  When the County sent a revised record index
on July 14, 2023, it had stricken Exhibits 10-20 as drafts, but not Exhibits 1-9.
 Soghbatyan Decl., Ex. 21, pp. 30-32.  Petitioners objected to the removal of
Exhibits 10-20.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶24,
Ex. 21, p. 45.  When the County asked for
a link to the documents it had marked as drafts, Petitioners sent a link with
only Exhibits 10-20.  Reply at 15; Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶24, Ex. 21, pp. 47, 51.  The
County’s July 25, 2023 email responded to Petitioners’ request to allow Exhibits
10-20 to stay in the record and did not refer to Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, pp. 4, 58.  
When it certified the record, the County removed Exhibits
10-20 from the record but also unilaterally removed Exhibits 1-9.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 5.  Petitioner sought a meet-and-confer for these
removed records, and on August 16, 2023 the County for the first time asserted
attorney-client privilege for Exhibits 1-9. 
Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 5. 
Even then, the County did not ask Petitioners to delete Exhibits 1-9
from the record index.  Soghbatyan Decl.,
¶30, Ex. 21, p. 6.  The County did not purport to justify its
assertion of attorney-client privilege for Exhibits 1-9 until September 25,
2023.  Soghbatyan Decl., ¶30, Ex.
21, p. 5, 94-95.  
            From these facts, Petitioners
accuse the County of trying to keep Exhibits 1-9 out of the administrative record
without having to justify privilege.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶30, Ex. 21, p. 6.  The draft
index notified the County about all 20 exhibits, and the County insisted on
removing Exhibits 10-20 but was silent on Exhibits 1-9 until Petitioners bates-stamped
and submitted them for certification. 
Mot. at 13-14, 15-16.
These facts are
insufficient to overcome the County’s showing of inadvertent disclosure.  Whether inadvertent disclosure constitutes a waiver
depends on both the subjective intent of the holder of the privilege and the
relevant surrounding circumstances for any manifestation of the holder's
consent to disclose the information.  Ardon,
supra, 62 Cal. 4th at 1191.  The
County contends Exhibits 1-9 were inadvertently produced, and inadvertent
disclosure does not waive the attorney-client privilege.  Tehrani Augment Decl., ¶4, Ex. A. 
The circumstances support the County’s subjective
intent.  The County produced approximately 47,000 pages in response to
Petitioners’ CPRA request.  Tehrani
Augment Decl., ¶2; Trinh Decl., ¶3.  Petitioners
prepared a record index, which the County reviewed on June 23, 2023, and noted that
it included various draft documents.  Tehrani
Augment Decl., ¶3.  On
July 21, 2023, the County asked for a copy of the documents it had marked on
the index as possibly being drafts.  Soghbatyan
Decl., ¶24, Ex. 21, p. 47.  The County’s
attorney stated that the index was not very specific as to certain entries
and the County was unsure what documents were being referenced.  Id. In a July 25, 2023 email the
County refused to stipulate to permit the drafts to remain in the record, in
part because they were attorney-client privileged documents that the County
inadvertently produced.  Soghbatyan
Decl., Ex. 21, p. 58.  
 From these facts, it
is clear that on July 23 the County was uncertain about Petitioners’ draft
index contained.  By July 25, the County
was asserting attorney-client privilege for inadvertently disclosed documents
(Exhibits 10-11), but not yet for Exhibits 1-9.  The County expressly asserted attorney-client
privilege for Exhibits 1-9 on August 16. 
The County did not manifest
consent to disclose the information and therefore did not waive the privilege.  This is true even if, arguendo, Petitioners
are correct that the County was trying to avoid having to make a privilege
showing by removing the drafts from the certified record.  A privilege is not waived simply because the
document contained privileged information is withheld for a different reason. The privilege was not waived.
 
(3). Conclusion
            The County has demonstrated that Exhibits 1-11 contain comments by
BBK and County Counsel that are protected by attorney-client privilege, and
there was no waiver of the privilege for Exhibits 1-9.  It is unclear whether comments on the
Exhibits by non-attorneys or unidentified persons are also protected.  That may depend on whether the process was
intended for the attorneys to review all non-attorney comments for possible
reply comment.  Petitioners also have
shown that the privileged comments, and not the entire document, are
protected.  A privilege log or other
means of testing the privilege for these uncertain entries may be required,
which is a matter the court will discuss with counsel at hearing.
            
            4. Conclusion 
The motion to augment is granted in part.  Exhibits 1-20 shall be added to the record
but Exhibits 1-11 will be redacted.  Attorney comments by BBK and County Counsel
will be redacted but whether other comments also must be redacted depends on
whether they were directed to and seen by the attorneys for the purpose of
providing legal advice.  This is a matter
that could be subject to further examination through privilege log or other
means, which the court will discuss with the parties’ counsel at hearing.


