  Case Number:  24STLC00667    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  26 
Covina Hills MHC v. Souza, et al.
DEMURRER
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant
Eugenia Souza’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant
Jermaine Souza’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS
EUGENIA SOUZA AND JERMAINE SOUZA ARE TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO THE COMPLAINT
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Covina Hills MHC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Eugenia Souza (“Defendant
Eugenia”), Jermaine D. Souza (“Defendant Souza”), Julio Javier Romo, Francis
Vinuya (erroneously sued as Francis Vinula) (“Defendant Vinuya”), and Does 1
through 100, alleging causes of action for: (1) Declaration of Mobile Home
Abandoned; (2) Open Book Account; (3) Breach of Implied in Fact Contract; (4)
Common Counts; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Breach of Written Contract; and (7)
Intentional Misrepresentation.
 
On July 1 and 26, 2024, Defendants Euguenia and Jermaine,
respectively, filed the instant demurrer to the Complaint. On October 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed and served oppositions.
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in the Complaint 
 
Plaintiff operates a mobilehome park in La Puente and
served a 60-Day Notice to Terminate Possession (the “Notice”) on Defendants
Eugenia Souza and Jermaine D. Souza (collectively, the “Souzas”) for having a
pit bull dog that terrorized the community. (Compl., ¶7.) An incident occurred
whereby the pit bull dog attacked a small child and his dog. (Ibid.) Defendant
Eugenia Souza was told that if she removed the pit bull dog from the community
that the Souzas’ tenancy would be reinstated but she refused. (Id. at
¶8.) The Souzas were given additional time to sell the mobilehome after the
expiration of the Notice. (Ibid.) The Souzas, however, were unable to
sell their mobilehome despite having a licensed real estate agent and brokerage
firm. (Id. at ¶9.) Eviction proceedings were commenced against the
Souzas. (Ibid.) 
 
Prior to the case going to trial, Defendant Eugenia Souza
represented to the court that she had vacated and moved from the mobilehome and
Covina Hills MHC. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Thereafter, the Souzas were asked to pay
current the storage accounts due and to remove the mobilehome from the space. (Id.
at ¶10.) The Souzas did not remove the mobilehome and pay back the storage
charges so Plaintiff commenced abandonment proceedings which were later
dismissed because of an apparent transfer of ownership of the mobilehome. (Id.
at ¶10.) Defendant Vinuya, who is the brother of Defendant Eugenia Souza,
represented to Plaintiff that the Souzas would pay the park storage charges
until the mobilehome was sold and removed from the Covina Hills MHC property. (Id.
at ¶11.) On more than one occasion, Defendant Vinuya represented that he had
found a buyer for mobilehome and stated that if Plaintiff continued to store
the mobilehome until sold, they would be paid at the time of sale. (Ibid.)
In February 2023, Defendant Vinya verified that he sold the mobilehome to
Antonio Geluz, however, on July 19, 2023, Defendant Eugenia Souza represented
that she sold the mobilehome to Julio Javier Romo. (Id., at ¶¶ 13-14.)
Plaintiff alleges that the issue of mobilehome ownership is convoluted. (Id.
at ¶15.)
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
As both demurrers by the Souza Defendants are identical,
the Court will analyze them together. Before filing a demurrer, the moving
party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with
the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would
resolve the objections to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41.) “Any
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(4).) It is unclear if the meet and confer requirement was
satisfied as the parties submit contradictory declarations. The Souza Defendants
declare that they attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff but Plaintiff’s
counsel disputes any such attempt. (Demurrer, Eugenia Souza Decl., ¶¶8-9 and
Exh. 1; Demurrer, Eugenia Souza Decl., ¶¶8-9 and Exh. 1; Opp., Trevillyan
Decl., ¶2). That being said, an insufficient meet and confer is not grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer. The Court will rule on the merits of the
demurrers. 
 
The demurrer is brought on the grounds that the complaint
does not state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action, uncertainty,
and it cannot be determined if the contract is oral, written, or implied.
(Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f), (g).) Special
demurrers are not permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ.
Proc., §92, subd. (c).) The Court will not rule on the demurrer for uncertainty
and that it cannot be determined if the contract is
oral, written, or implied. 
 
            Res
Judicata / Collateral Estoppel
 
The Souza Defendants argues that the causes of action
asserted in the Complaint are barred by the doctrines of res judicata and
collateral estoppel based on a separate action, LASC Case No. 24STCP02034.
(Demurrer at pp. 8-9.) On its face, however, the Complaint does not mention
LASC Case No. 24STCP02034 and the Souza Defendants have not requested judicial
notice of that action. Also, the demurrers do not present any legal authority
as to the elements needed to show the applicability of res judicata or
collateral estoppel, or how those elements are met in this action. “Contentions
are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and
citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003)
111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) The demurrer based on collateral estoppel and res
judicata is overruled. 
 
            1st
Cause of Action for Declaration of Abandonment Pursuant to CCP 798.61
 
Although the Souza Defendants demur to the first cause of
action, they do not address it in their memoranda of points and authorities.
The demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.  
 
2nd Cause of
Action for Open Book Account
 
The demurrer states that the
elements of a cause of action for open book account are: (1) the parties must
have had financial transactions with each other; (2) plaintiff must have kept a
written or electronic account of the debits and credits of the transaction; (3)
defendant owes plaintiff money on the account; and (4) plaintiff must establish
the specific amount of money owed. No authority it provided for this
contention. Furthermore, in analyzing the Complaint, the demurrer is brought on
the grounds that Plaintiff did not attach the record of financial transactions,
the record of debts and credits, the accounting of debts owed. Attaching these
records to the Complaint, however, is not required according to the Souza
Defendants’ own statement of the elements. Nor do the demurrers analyze the
allegations in the Complaint to demonstrate how any of the purported elements
are missing or insufficient. Therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of
action is overruled. 
 
 
 
            3rd
Cause of Action for Breach of Implied in Fact Contract
 
Moving Defendants contend that
“whether or not an implied contract has been created is determined by the acts
and conduct of the parties and all the surrounding circumstances involved . . .
.” (Citing Del. E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 611.) The demurrers go on to argue that plaintiff has not pled
enough facts regarding the parties’ conduct, surrounding circumstances, and
other contributory facts to support the existence of an implied in fact
contract. However, the demurrers simply rely on this conclusory statement
without setting forth the allegations from the third cause of action and
explaining why they are deficient. This does not meet the moving party’s burden
on demurrer. The demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled. 
 
            4th
Cause of Action for Common Counts
 
The Souza Defendants argue that a
common count cause of action can only be filed in one of three situations: (1)
goods and services rendered; (2) account stated; and (3) money had and
received. Again, this argument is not supported by any legal authority. Nor
does the demurrer offer any analysis of the allegations in the Complaint to
support the Souza Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff failed to plead any of
the three acceptable situations. The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
overruled. 
 
            5th
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
Although the Souza Defendants demur to the fifth cause of
action, they do not address it in their memoranda of points and authorities.
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled.  
 
            6th
Cause of Action for Breach of Written Contract
 
The demurrers provide authority
regarding what must be alleged to state a cause of action for breach of
contract. Specifically, “[t]o prevail on a cause of action for breach of
contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance
of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and
(4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Citing Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) However, the demurrers do not address what
Plaintiff alleged in support of the breach of contract cause of action or why
it is insufficient. The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled.
 
7th Cause of
Action for Intentional Misrepresentation
 
The demurrers to the fraud cause
of action merely recite the statutory grounds under Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10 without discussing the elements required to plead a cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation. Nor do the demurrers explain why the
seventh cause of action fails to allege sufficient facts. The demurrers to the
seventh cause of action are overruled. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Eugenia Souza’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant
Jermaine Souza’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS
EUGENIA SOUZA AND JERMAINE SOUZA ARE TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO THE COMPLAINT
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 