  Case Number:  22STCV20692    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/17/24                                                               
TRIAL DATE: 7/28/25
Case #22STCV20692
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Motion filed on 7/24/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Santa Clarita
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Robert Parco,
individually and as successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John
Parco; Maria Parco and Johnny Parco

NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting summary judgment in favor of Defendant City of Santa Clarita (the
City) and against Plaintiffs Robert Parco, individually and as
successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John Parco; Maria Parco and
Johnny Parco (collectively, Plaintiffs). 
Alternatively, the City seeks an order granting summary adjudication in
favor of the City and against Plaintiffs on the following issues: 
 
Issue No. 1:
The City is not liable for Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for “Dangerous |
Condition of Public Property, on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot establish
that the City’s property at the Accident Location was in a dangerous condition
at the time of the accident, that is Plaintiffs cannot prove that the City’s
Property at the Accident Location was substantially dangerous when used with
due care. 
 
Issue No. 2:
The City is not liable for Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for
“Dangerous  Condition of Public Property”
on the grounds that there is no evidence that a negligent act of a City
employee created any alleged dangerous condition at the Accident Location. 
 
Issue No. 3:
The City is not liable for Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for
“Dangerous  Condition of Public Property”
on the grounds that the City did not have actual or constructive notice of any
alleged dangerous condition at the Accident Location. 
 
Issue No.4:
The City is not liable for Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action for “Loss of  Consortium” on the grounds that Plaintiffs
cannot meet their burden of proving that Decedent Stellina Parco (Stellina) was
wrongfully injured due to the City’s negligence. 
 
Issue No. 5:
The City is not liable for Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action for “Loss of  Consortium” on the grounds that Plaintiffs
cannot prove that Plaintiff John Parco’s (John) alleged lack of consortium was
caused by a wrongful act by the City. 
 
Issue No. 6:
The City is not liable for Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action for “Wrongful
Death” on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot prove that Stellina’s death was
caused by a wrongful act by the City.

RULING: The request for summary judgment is
granted.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on September 30, 2021 at the intersection of Lyons Avenue and Avenida
Rotella in Santa Clarita (the accident). 
Decedent Stellina Parco (Stellina) was a passenger in Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Helen Ann Lynn’s (Lynn) vehicle.  The
accident occurred as Lynn was attempting to make a left-turn at the subject
intersection, and her vehicle was struck by Defendant Alexander Gray Popejoy’s
(Popejoy) vehicle.  At the time of the accident,
there was an ongoing construction project for the benefit of Defendant Southern
California Gas Company, Inc. (SoCal Gas) at the subject intersection, which
required lane closures from the oncoming traffic side heading westbound toward
Lynn.  Stellina suffered injuries as a
result of the accident and subsequently died on March 5, 2024.  
 
Plaintiffs Robert Parco, individually and as
successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John Parco; Maria Parco and
Johnny Parco’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) First Amended Complaint currently
alleges three causes of action against Defendant City of Santa Clarita (the
City): (1) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Third Cause of Action), (2) Loss
of Consortium (Fourth Cause of Action) and (3) Wrongful Death (Fifth Cause of
Action).  Plaintiffs contend that SoCal
Gas’s project created a visual obstruction of oncoming traffic thereby
constituting a contributing cause of the accident.  
 
Although Lynn’s original cross-complaint included claims
against the City, Lynn has since dismissed those claims against the City.  Lynn’s operative First Amended
Cross-Complaint for: (1) Indemnity, (2) Apportionment of Fault, (3) Comparative
Fault and (4) Declaratory Relief is alleged only against Popejoy and Roes
101-200.  
 
On July 24, 2024, the City filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order granting summary judgment in favor of Defendant City of
Santa Clarita (the City) and against Plaintiffs Robert Parco, individually and
as successor-in-interest to Decedent Stellina Parco; John Parco; Maria Parco
and Johnny Parco (collectively, Plaintiffs). 
Alternatively, the City seeks an order granting summary adjudication in
favor of the City and against Plaintiffs on the following issues: 
 
Issue No. 1: The City is not liable for
Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for “Dangerous | Condition of Public
Property, on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot establish that the City’s
property at the Accident Location was in a dangerous condition at the time of
the accident, that is Plaintiffs cannot prove that the City’s Property at the
Accident Location was substantially dangerous when used with due care. 
 
Issue No. 2: The City is not liable for
Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for “Dangerous  Condition of Public Property” on the grounds
that there is no evidence that a negligent act of a City employee created any
alleged dangerous condition at the Accident Location. 
 
Issue No. 3: The City is not liable for
Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for “Dangerous  Condition of Public Property” on the grounds
that the City did not have actual or constructive notice of any alleged
dangerous condition at the Accident Location. 
 
Issue No.4: The City is not liable for Plaintiffs’
Fourth Cause of Action for “Loss of 
Consortium” on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot meet their burden of
proving that Decedent  Stellina Parco
(Stellina) was wrongfully injured due to the City’s negligence. 
 
Issue No. 5: The City is not liable for
Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action for “Loss of 
Consortium” on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot prove that Plaintiff
John Parco’s (John) alleged lack of consortium was caused by a wrongful act by
the City. 
 
Issue No. 6: The City is not liable for
Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action for “Wrongful Death” on the grounds that
Plaintiffs cannot prove that Stellina’s death was caused by a wrongful act by
the City.
 
Plaintiffs have opposed the motion and the City has filed
a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs’ objections numbers 1, 2, 3 and 5 are not
proper evidentiary objections.  See
CRC 3.1354(b).  Rather than objecting to
evidence in these objections, Plaintiffs improperly object to facts set forth
in the City’s separate statement.  Assuming
Plaintiffs are objecting to the evidence which the City cites in support of
these facts, the Court finds the objections lack merit.  As such, these objections are overruled.    
 
Plaintiffs’ objection number 4 is also overruled.  
 
The City’s objections, numbers 1-19, to Plaintiffs’
evidence are overruled.  
 
A motion for summary judgment shall be granted “if all
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  CCP 437c(a). 
Similarly, a party may move for summary adjudication on the issue of
duty and/or whether a cause of action has no merit.  See CCP 437c(f)(1).
 
A defendant has met its burden of proof on a motion for
summary judgment if the defendant has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
that cause of action.  CCP 437c(p)(2).  If a defendant makes a prima facie showing
for summary judgment, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to present evidence
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.  Union Bank (1995) 31 CA4th 573,
583.  The mere “presence of a factual
conflict will not defeat a motion for summary judgment unless the fact in
dispute is a material one.”  People
ex. rel. Department of Transportation v. Outdoor Media Group (1993) 13
CA4th 1067, 1077; See also McGonnell (2002) 98 CA4th 1098,
1105-1106.   
  
3rd cause of action – Dangerous Condition
of Public Property  
 
Government Code 835 provides: 
 
“Except as provided by statute, a
public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its
property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either:
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or
omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment
created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The public entity had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to
protect against the dangerous condition.”
 
A condition is “dangerous” if it creates a “substantial
(as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when
such property…is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used.” 
Government Code 830(a).  In order
to recover on a claim for dangerous condition of public property, a plaintiff
must “establish that the condition was one that created a hazard to a person
who foreseeably would use the property or adjacent property with due care.”  Fredette (1986) 187 CA3d 122, 130; Chowdurry
(1995) 38 CA4th 1187, 1195-1196; Thimon (2020) 44 CA5th 745, 754.  “Except where the doctrine of res ipsa
loquitur is applicable, the happening of the accident which results in the
injury is not in and of itself evidence that public property was in a dangerous
condition.”  Government Code 830.5(a).  The absence of prior or subsequent accidents,
despite substantial use of the property over an extended period of time, tends
to prove the condition was not dangerous. 
Antenor (1985) 174 CA3d 477, 483.
 
Here, there is no evidence of a dangerous condition
existing at the time of the accident.  As
noted above, Plaintiffs allege that a dangerous condition of obstruction to
driver’s visibility was created by the City’s failure to properly supervise
SoCal Gas’s work and ensuring proper traffic controls.  (Separate Statement (SS) 3, 8-10, 16).  However, Lynn testified at her deposition that
the construction project did not create any visual obstruction.  (SS 8-9). 
Specifically, in describing what happened immediately before the
accident, Lynn testified:
 
“I looked down the street before I
proceeded to turn, and there were no cars coming.  But I can see a red car pull out of a
driveway way down the street, closer than the Vallarta driveway, but still way
down the street.  And I said out loud,
‘It’s my turn.’  And so I proceeded to
turn.”
 
(City’s
Ex.E, Plaintiffs’ Ex.5 p.49:20-25)
 
Lynn went on to state that her view of the red car
(Popejoy’s vehicle) was not obstructed in any way or blocked in any way when
she first saw it pulling out of the driveway. 
(City’s Ex.E, Plaintiffs’ Ex.5 p.51:13-16).  Further, Lynn stated that she did not believe
that she told the police officer at the scene that her view of approaching
traffic was blocked in any way because she would not have pulled out, if it was
blocked in any way.  (City’s Ex.E, Plaintiffs’ Ex.5 p.59:14-21).
 
Popejoy testified that he saw Lynn’s vehicle when he was
about 90 feet away from the intersection and that Lynn began making her left
turn when he was about 50-60 feet from the intersection.  (Plaintiffs’ Ex.4, p.20:4-12).  Popejoy merely speculates that he may have
seen Lynn’s vehicle earlier if a truck had not been in the left-hand turn
pocket.  (Plaintiffs’ Ex.4, p.24:3-6).  Popejoy went on to state that he told the
investigating officer at the scene of the accident that as he was approaching
the intersection, Lynn made “what felt like a very unexpected…left into the
intersection” resulting in the collision despite Popejoy hitting his brakes
really hard.  (Plaintiffs’ Ex.4, p.33:1-8).  In response to written discovery, Popejoy
indicated that he was not claiming that a dangerous condition of public
property contributed to or caused the accident. 
(SS 10).  Additionally, Popejoy
does not have any claim against the City. 

 
The fact that Lynn’s written discovery responses,
prepared months before her deposition took place reference an unidentified
visual obstruction, as did her now-dismissed cross-claims against the City is
insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact as to whether or not
her view was obstructed by the construction in the face of her clear deposition
testimony that her view was not obstructed and that she would not have made the
turn if it was.
 
Regardless of the fact that the investigating officer may
have thought there was a visual obstruction for drivers making left-hand turns
at the intersection, the totality of the evidence establishes that Lynn saw
Popejoy’s vehicle at all relevant times and thought she could safely make the left
turn before he reached the intersection, but unfortunately she did not.  (See also City’s Ex.E, p.76:4-p.77:11
whereat Lynn testified that she made the left turn because Popejoy’s vehicle,
which ultimately struck her vehicle, “was way down by Vallarta…” and “by the
time [she] made [her] turn, [Popejoy] went from the driveway at Vallarta all
the way to the point of impact.”). 
Additionally, Plaintiffs’ reliance on the testimony of inspector Viser where
he states that “there’s an obstruction until there isn’t” is misleading because
he further explained that “[i]f you pull far enough forward, you can see up the
road, and you turn when it’s clear, right? 
Everyone knows that when you’re making a left turn.”  (Plaintiffs’, Ex.6 p.84:7-11). 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff cannot establish that a
dangerous condition of public property existed and/or caused the accident.
 
Even if the construction project could be deemed to have
created a dangerous condition, Plaintiff cannot establish that a City
employee’s wrongful act or omission created the dangerous condition or that the
City had actual or constructive notice of same for a sufficient amount of time
prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against it.  See Government Code 835. 
 
The City’s only involvement to the construction project
was to issue a permit and inspect the site in relation thereto.  (SS 17). 
During the daily inspections of the site, it was confirmed that that the
site complied with the applicable codes and standards.  (SS 12, 13, 19).  As such, there is no evidence that any City
employee created the alleged dangerous condition.
 
Nor is there evidence that the City had actual notice of
any dangerous condition.  A public entity
is deemed to have actual notice of a dangerous condition “if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and should have known of its
dangerous character.”  Government Code 835.2(a).  The evidence establishes that the City never
received any prior complaints or notice of any dangerous condition at the area
where the subject accident occurred.  (SS
14-15). Additionally, the City’s daily inspection of SoCal Gas’s project
confirmed compliance with City codes and standards, and revealed no indication
of any condition necessitating repair or warning. (SS 12).  The evidence further shows that the City
inspector, Viser visited the project site on the date of the accident, and did
not find any violations or conditions of the project needing attention.  (SS 13). 
Further, neither the City nor Defendant Henkels & McCoy, Inc., the
General Contractor on the project, received any complaints or notice of any
alleged dangerous condition created by the project before the accident.  (SS 14). 
The City has no record of similar accidents occurring at the location.  (SS 14).
 
There is also no evidence to support a finding that the
City had constructive notice of any dangerous condition.  A public entity is said to have had
constructive notice 
 
“only if the plaintiff establishes
that the condition had existed for such a period of time and was of such an
obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have
discovered the condition and its dangerous character. On the issue of due care,
admissible evidence includes but is not limited to evidence as to:
(1) Whether the existence of the
condition and its dangerous character would have been discovered by an
inspection system that was reasonably adequate (considering the practicability
and cost of inspection weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the
potential danger to which failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the
public entity whether the property was safe for the use or uses for which the
public entity used or intended others to use the public property and for uses
that the public entity actually knew others were making of the public property
or adjacent property.
(2) Whether the public entity
maintained and operated such an inspection system with due care and did not
discover the condition.”
 
See Government Code
835.2(b).
 
Since Lynn denies that any visual obstruction existed,
Plaintiffs cannot establish the existence of same or the obvious nature of the
condition or that it existed for a sufficient amount of time such that the City
should have been aware of it in time to remediate it before the accident.  (SS 8). 
The evidence shows that the City conducted daily inspections of the
construction site and did not discover any dangerous condition that needed
remediation.  (SS 12).  Nor is there any evidence that the City or
any entity involved in the construction project received any complaints or had
any notice of any dangerous condition regarding the project.  (SS 14).
 
4th cause of action – Loss of Consortium
 
The elements of a loss of consortium cause of action are:
(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at
the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; (3)
loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was proximately
caused by the defendant’s act.  See
LeFiell Manufacturing Co. (2012) 55 C4th 275, 284-285; Vanhooser
(2012) 206 CA4th 921, 927.  By its
nature, a cause of action for loss of consortium depends on the existence of a
cause of action for tortious injury to a spouse.  Hahn 
(2007) 147 CA4th 740, 746.   
 
Since the underlying tort claim against the City fails, the
claim for loss of consortium which depends on the tort claim also fails.  
   
5th cause of action – Wrongful Death
 
The elements of a wrongful death cause of action are: (1)
the underlying tort, (2) a resulting death, and (3) damages.  B.B. (2020) 10 C5th 1, 31.  Again, since the underlying tort claim
(dangerous condition of public property) fails, so does the wrongful death
cause of action.  
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for a Continuance
 
Plaintiffs request that if the Court is inclined to grant
the motion, that the hearing be continued pursuant to CCP 438c(h) which provides:

 
“If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The
application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be
made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition
response to the motion is due.”
 
Plaintiffs contend the following additional facts which
support the opposition exist: (1) additional evidentiary support confirming the
dangerous nature of the condition, including the testimony of the Henkels &
McCoy, Inc. project foreman, Jorge Casteneda, two City Traffic Engineers
identified in a December 1, 2023 deposition, as well as witnesses to the
collision itself, Victor Martinez and Tim Ford and (2) information about the
lack of notice of prior incidents or complaints as set forth in the purported unsupported
declaration of Alex Adams.  (See
Nielsen Decl.).  Plaintiff contends that
these facts are essential to the opposition as they address all of the issues
raised by Defendant.
 
However, no additional evidence Plaintiffs obtain can
refute Lynn’s clear testimony that her vision was not obstructed, she saw
Popejoy’s vehicle at all times before the accident and she would not have
attempted the left turn if her view was obstructed.  (See City’s Ex.E, Plaintiffs’ Ex.5
p.49:20-25; City’s Ex.E, Plaintiffs’ Ex.5 p.51:13-16; City’s Ex.E, Plaintiffs’
Ex.5 p.59:14-21).  As such, the Court
finds that a continuance is not warranted. 

 
CONCLUSION
 
The request for summary judgment is granted.  
 