  Case Number:  22STCV13792    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROSEVIANNEY C. OGUSMI, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RICHARD
   DALE GENTILE, D.D.S., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22STCV13792
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 20,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On April 12, 2024, plaintiff
Rosevianney C. Ogumsi (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion requesting the Court
reconsider its order granting summary judgment for defendants Heydar Hamid
Shahrokh, D.D.S. and Heydar Shahrokh, D.D.S., Inc. dba Comfort Dental Center
(collectively, “Defendants”). The Court found that summary judgment was
warranted because Plaintiff was deemed to have admitted that she did not suffer
any damages or injuries and that Defendants did not cause any injury or breach
the applicable standard of care. Plaintiff argues that the Court should reconsider
its ruling on Defendant’s summary judgment motion because it failed to consider
the fact that she, through her counsel, served responses to Defendants’
Requests for Admission (Set One) on January 31, 2023.
Plaintiff’s motion fails for several
reasons. First, a motion for reconsideration must present “new or different
facts, circumstances, or law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) Second, the
party seeking reconsideration must also provide a satisfactory explanation for
the failure to produce those facts, circumstances, or law, at an earlier time. (See
Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.) Therefore, motions
for reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where a party offers the Court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier. (Id.) 
Here, Plaintiff presents her responses
to Requests for Admission (Set One), served on January 31, 2023, as the basis
for reconsideration. However, there is no reason why Plaintiff could not have
presented these responses before at the hearing. Also, even if the Court
considered these responses, they are irrelevant, because the ruling on the
summary judgment motion exclusively relied on Plaintiff’s failure to respond to
Defendants’ Requests for Admission (Set Two). 
Plaintiff also claims in her
declaration that: (1) she never received Defendants’ Requests for Admission
(Set Two) and (2) she eventually provided responses before she left the country
on December 8, 2024. These claims are unavailing. It is too late to re-litigate
whether Plaintiff was served with Defendants’ Requests for Admission (Set Two);
the time to raise this issue was at the hearing on Defendants’ motion to deem
admitted. Second, even if Plaintiff eventually provided responses, Plaintiff
never filed a motion to withdraw those deemed admissions pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.300(a) – a fact that was already considered by the
Court in ruling on Defendants’ summary judgment motion. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 20th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 