 Case Number:  23AHCV00415    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DAVID HUANG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AURORA
   LAS ENCINAS LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00415
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER RELEASING CORONER’S PHOTOS (C.C.P. § 129)

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 20,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On April 8, 2024, defendants Aurora Las
Encinas, LLC and Signature Healthcare Services, LLC (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this unopposed motion for an order authorizing the release
of photographs in the custody of the Los Angeles Coroner’s Office pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 129. Section 129 of the Code of Civil Procedure
provides, in relevant part: (a) Notwithstanding any other law, a copy,
reproduction, or facsimile of any kind of a photograph, negative, or print,
including instant photographs and video recordings, of the body, or any portion
of the body, of a deceased person, taken by or for the coroner at the scene of
death or in the course of a post mortem examination or autopsy, shall not be
made or disseminated except as follows: … (2) As a court of this state permits,
by order after good cause has been shown and after written notification of the
request for the court order has been served, at least five days before the
order is made, upon the district attorney of the county in which the post
mortem examination or autopsy has been made or caused to be made. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 129.) 
Defendants state that the photographs of
David Huang are “directly relevant to plaintiffs’ claimed injuries and damages
in this case” and that Defendants will be prejudiced in their defense without
them. (Motion, pp. 5-6.) Yet, Defendants do not advance any argument explaining
how the photographs are relevant or how the photographs relate to any of their
defenses, nor any explanation of how the photographs will be used in connection
with the preparation of their defense. Moreover, Defendants do not provide the
Court with a proposed order that would establish clear and firm limits on the dissemination
and public use of these photographs consistent with the privacy interests of
decedent’s family and the intent of CCP § 129. 
The fact that the photographs were
taken in connection with the autopsy performed by the coroner’s office does
not, in and of itself, provide the “good cause” required for an order to issue
under section 129. In fact, section 129 would be meaningless if the Court
adopted such a definition because section 129 only applies to photographs or
recordings of the body of a deceased person, “taken by or for the coroner at
the scene of death or in the course of a post mortem examination or autopsy.” 
Accordingly, the motion is denied
without prejudice. 
Dated
this 20th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 