 Case Number:  24STCV02578    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Danny
  J. Torrez II


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:

 


 
24STCV02578




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling

 




 
AIDS
  Healthcare Foundation, a California Nonprofit Corporation


 
 
 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



  
Hearing
Date: August 13, 2024
Department
54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion
to Quash Deposition Subpoena of Business Records to (non-party) IPM Tech.
Moving
Party:
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation 
Responding
Party:
Plaintiff Danny J. Torrez II
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
OF BUSINESS RECORDS IS DENIED. 
 
            DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, and opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff Danny J. Torrez II filed this
landlord-tenant action against Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation, alleging
(1) breach of warranty of habitability (violation of civil code § 1941.1); (2)
breach of warranty of habitability (health & safety code § 17920.3); (3)
breach of warranty of habitability (violation of civil code § 1942.4); (4)
negligence—premises liability; (5) nuisance; (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; (7) breach of contract (8) unfair business practices
(violation of B&P Code § 17200, et seq.); and (9) fraudulent concealment.
Plaintiff alleges that he was living in slum housing conditions, including bed
bug infestation. 
 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff issued a subpoena seeking the
production of business records to non-party IPM Tech, whom Defendant identified
as the pest control operator service for the property. Plaintiff seeks:
 
“Any and all service
reports, inspection reports, sanitation reports, invoices, receipts, payments, contracts,
emails, log books, key for deciphering codes in documents, and correspondence including,
but not limited to all documents, email communication, records, pictures and
videos, of any and all pest control services performed and/or recommended at
2208 W 8th St, Los Angeles, CA 90057 the ("Subject Property") from
2019 through present.” (MTQ., Ex. 1.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil
Procedure §1987.1, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
“If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
 (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1(a).) There is no requirement that the motion contain a meet and
confer declaration. (See Code of Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)   
 
“The burden is
on the party seeking the constitutionally protected information to establish
direct relevance.” (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008,
1017.)  “Mere speculation as to the possibility that some portion of the
records might be relevant to some substantive issue does not suffice.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant contends the subpoena is
overbroad; it seeks records pertaining to unrelated addresses and records
pertaining to services performed at the property for three years before
Plaintiff took occupancy of his unit in March of 2023. 
 
 Plaintiff
argues that the records may show the presence of bed bugs at the property both before
and after Plaintiff lived there. The presence of bed bugs before he moved in
would show notice to Defendant. The records also might be relevant to standard
of care, procedures, and protocols.  
 
The subpoena is sufficiently tailored
to the production of relevant records. The parties should meet and confer on a
protective order to address any privacy concerns Defendant may have. Those
concerns are insufficient to justify granting the motion. 