  Case Number:  22STCV08051    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
11-5-24 c/f 9-17-24
Case
#: 22STCV08051
Trial
Date: 4-7-25
 
PREMISES INSPECTION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Gavrielli Brands, LLC  
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Empire Container Freight Station, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Premises Inspection
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Gavrielli Brands, LLC imported certain footwear
for sale in the United stated under the “Tieks” brand. Third party Catrone
Freight Logistics coordinated the importation of the shipment(s) from the Port
of Long Beach and storage of the merchandise from the with defendant Empire
Container Freight Station, Inc. While Plaintiff utilized the services of
Defendant, beginning in 2017, Plaintiff began to discover missing merchandise appearing
for sale on eBay. When Plaintiff confronted Defendant, a counter demand for
$732,915.50 in storage charges was presented, and denial of access to the
property without payment. Plaintiff contends Defendant “stole” at least 21,528
pairs of shoes from the shipments at a retail value of $4.3 million. 
 
On March 7, 2022, plaintiff filed its complaint for Possession
of Personal Property, Conversion, Negligence, Promissory Fraud, and Unfair
Competition. A 170.6 challenge led to reassignment from Department 51 to 68. On
June 14, 2022, Defendant answered and filed a cross-complaint for Breach of
Contract, Open Account, and Unfair Business Practices. On December 7, 2022, a
first amended cross-complaint was filed. The court sustained the demurrer to
the first amended cross-complaint with 20 days leave to amend on February 6,
2023. The second amended cross-complaint was filed on March 2, 2023. On May 16,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the second amended cross-complaint
without leave to amend. 
 
On January 30, 2024, Empire Container Freight Station, Inc.
filed a 170.6 peremptory challenge to the court. The challenge was accepted and
the case reassigned. On February 23, 2024, the court (Department 1) entered a
subsequent stipulation rescinding the second filed 170.6 peremptory challenge
brought by Empire Container Freight Station, Inc., and restoring previously
vacated hearings and the trial.
 
On April 23, 2024, the court granted Plaintiff leave to file
a first amended complaint. On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint for Possession of Personal Property, Conversion, Negligence,
Promissory Fraud, and Unfair Competition.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff
Gavrielli Brands, LLC moves to compel compliance with the demand for inspection
of premises of Empire Container Freight Station, Inc. Plaintiff served the
inspection demand on March 8, 2024. [Declaration of Benjamin Smith, ¶ 4, Ex. 4.]
Defendant responded with “meritless” objections. [Id., ¶ 5, Ex. 5.] Defendant
in a one day late opposition admits to initially objecting, then agreeing to an
inspection of “unrestricted” areas. Restricted areas are defined as a portion
of the premises restricted under federal law. Said premises by law are fenced
and cordoned off as required for warehouse operations registered with United
States Secretary of the Treasury and Customs and bonded by the (Department of
the?) United States Customs and Border Protection. Defendant represents that
the open and accessible areas are the same areas where the shoes were stored
and allegedly took damage. Plaintiff in reply requests the court disregard the
late filed opposition, reiterates the denial of any water damage, challenges
the “newfangled” claim that said merchandise was never stored in the
bonded/restricted portion of the warehouse, and challenges Defendant’s reliance
on the federal statute and regulations as a means of blocking access. 
 
“A party may
demand that any other party allow the party making the demand, or someone
acting on the demanding party's behalf, to enter on any land or other
property that is in the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom
the demand is made, and to inspect and to measure, survey, photograph, test, or
sample the land or other property, or any designated object or operation on
it.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (d).) “A plaintiff may make a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling without leave of court at any
time that is 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b).)
 
Given the agreement to allow at least a partial
inspection, the court declines to consider the objections. The court considers
the one day late filed opposition in that the merits of a potential federal
regulation require consideration over a broad based order allowing full
premises inspection, only to lead to further law and motion before the court
following a potentially failed effort to reach designated restricted areas. 
 
To the extent Defendant agrees to allow access,
the court also declines to consider any challenges to the water damage claim
and mold development. The inspection into the warehouse in and of itself allows
exploration of the claim.
 
Defendant cites to two sections for the basis
of limiting inspection. Plaintiff challenges an restrictions.
 
Subject
to subsection (b), buildings or parts of buildings and other enclosures may be
designated by the Secretary of the Treasury as bonded warehouses for the
storage of imported merchandise entered for warehousing, or taken possession of
by the appropriate customs officer, or under seizure, or for the manufacture of
merchandise in bond, or for the repacking, sorting, or cleaning of imported
merchandise. Such warehouses may be bonded for the storing of such merchandise
only as shall belong or be consigned to the owners or proprietors thereof and
be known as private bonded warehouses, or for the storage of imported
merchandise generally and be known as public bonded warehouses. Before any
imported merchandise not finally released from customs custody shall be stored
in any such premises, the owner or lessee thereof shall give a bond in such sum
and with such sureties as may be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury to
secure the Government against any loss or expense connected with or arising
from the deposit, storage, or manipulation of merchandise in such warehouse.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, bonded warehouses shall be used
solely for the storage of imported merchandise and shall be placed in charge of
a proper officer of the customs, who, together with the proprietor thereof,
shall have joint custody of all merchandise stored in the warehouse; and all
labor on the merchandise so stored shall be performed by the owner or
proprietor of the warehouse, under supervision of the officer of the customs in
charge of the same, at the expense of the owner or proprietor. The compensation
of such officer of the customs and other customs employees appointed to
supervise the receipt of merchandise into any such warehouse and deliveries
therefrom shall be reimbursed to the Government by the proprietor of such
warehouse.


(19
U.S.C.A. § 1555(a).)
 
The
plain language of the statute provides for control of the customs officer,
which means exclusion of non-qualified personnel. Other than a denial of any
such right, the court finds no basis compelling such inspection, or whether the
court can even grant such an order over a federally regulated warehouse. The
court therefore finds the restrictions valid. 
 
The
parties also challenge a citation to the Code of Federal Regulations: “Review
by the Court of International Trade. Any proprietor adversely affected by a
decision of the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee
may appeal the decision in the Court of International Trade.” (19 C.F.R. § 19.3(g).)
The court cannot determine the application or necessity of the subject section
to the inspection dispute.
 
As
for the denial of storage into the bonded portion of the warehouse however,
Plaintiff cites to request for admissions as a form of undermining the veracity
of the statement. [Declaration of Gilbert Mikalian, Ex. 9.] The position in
reply lacks actual citation to any specific admission(s). Other than admission
19 regarding the designation of the warehouse as a U.S. Customs bonded facility,
which actually establishes application of 19 U.S.C.A. § 1555(a), the court
finds no specific admission regarding the actual placement of the items in a
restricted or otherwise open area. Nothing in the motion or reply otherwise
establishes a requirement that the items were necessarily stored the entire
time in any restricted area upon receipt from the shipper with subsequent
relocation upon clearing customs. Even if this were the situation, the court
lacks any factual basis for challenge to the representation that said damage
occurred in the customs clearance area. 
 
Thus,
the court grants the motion to compel the inspection. The inspection to occur
within the next 30 days. The inspection is limited to unrestricted areas. The
parties are to mutually agree to a respective date and time. If the parties
cannot agree on a mutually convenient date, Plaintiff may unilaterally pick a
date and time. Defendant’s failure to comply a second time will constitute
potential grounds for sanctions, including monetary, issue and/or evidentiary.
 
The
court declines to impose sanctions given the validity of the dispute arising
from federal statutory authority. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
 
Motion to deem requests for admissions admitted scheduled
for January 28, 2025. 
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.Dept.
68Date:
11-5-24 c/f 9-17-24Case
#: 22STCV08051Trial
Date: 4-7-25 FORM INTERROGATORIES MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Gavrielli Brands, LLC  RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Defendant, Empire Container Freight Station, Inc. RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories (set two) SUMMARY
OF ACTIONPlaintiff Gavrielli Brands, LLC imported certain footwear
for sale in the United stated under the “Tieks” brand. Third party Catrone
Freight Logistics coordinated the importation of the shipment(s) from the Port
of Long Beach and storage of the merchandise from the with defendant Empire
Container Freight Station, Inc. While Plaintiff utilized the services of
Defendant, beginning in 2017, Plaintiff began to discover missing merchandise appearing
for sale on eBay. When Plaintiff confronted Defendant, a counter demand for
$732,915.50 in storage charges was presented, and denial of access to the
property without payment. Plaintiff contends Defendant “stole” at least 21,528
pairs of shoes from the shipments at a retail value of $4.3 million.  On March 7, 2022, plaintiff filed its complaint for Possession
of Personal Property, Conversion, Negligence, Promissory Fraud, and Unfair
Competition. A 170.6 challenge led to reassignment from Department 51 to 68. On
June 14, 2022, Defendant answered and filed a cross-complaint for Breach of
Contract, Open Account, and Unfair Business Practices. On December 7, 2022, a
first amended cross-complaint was filed. The court sustained the demurrer to
the first amended cross-complaint with 20 days leave to amend on February 6,
2023. The second amended cross-complaint was filed on March 2, 2023. On May 16,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the second amended cross-complaint
without leave to amend.  On January 30, 2024, Empire Container Freight Station, Inc.
filed a 170.6 peremptory challenge to the court. The challenge was accepted and
the case reassigned. On February 23, 2024, the court (Department 1) entered a
subsequent stipulation rescinding the second filed 170.6 peremptory challenge
brought by Empire Container Freight Station, Inc., and restoring previously
vacated hearings and the trial. On April 23, 2024, the court granted Plaintiff leave to file
a first amended complaint. On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint for Possession of Personal Property, Conversion, Negligence,
Promissory Fraud, and Unfair Competition. RULING: Granted.Plaintiff
Gavrielli Brands, LLC moves to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (set two)
served on Empire Container Freight Station, Inc. Plaintiff served Form
Interrogatories (set two) on April 5, 2024. [Declaration of Benjamin Smith, ¶ 4,
Ex. 5, 6.] At the time of the filing of the motions, no responses were
received. [Ibid.]  The
court electronic filing system shows no opposition or reply on file at the time
of the tentative ruling publication cutoff. The unopposed motion is granted.
Defendant Empire Container Freight Station, Inc. is ordered to serve verified
responses to form interrogatories, without objections within ten days. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a-b).)   Sanctions
in the amount of $250. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).) Sanctions imposed
joint and severally against both counsel and Grand Life, Inc., and payable
within 30 days of this order. Motion to deem requests for admissions admitted scheduled
for January 28, 2025.  Plaintiff
to give notice.
 
 