 Case Number:  22STCV18166    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
ANGELA WALTON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV18166 
  Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant county of los angeles’ motion
  for summary judgment or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On June 2, 2022, Plaintiff Angela
Walton initiated this employment action against Defendants County of Los Angeles
and Alexandro Villanueva. The operative pleading is the First Amended Complaint
filed July 11, 2022. The FAC asserts (1) Labor Code retaliation, (2) FEHA
discrimination, (3) FEHA retaliation, and (4) FEHA failure to prevent. 
            Plaintiff is a detention facility captain
employed by the County. (FAC ¶¶ 23, 24.) Plaintiff alleges that Sheriff
Villanueva personally intervened in Plaintiff’s exercise of her duties and
actively undermined Plaintiff’s authority. (Id., ¶ 25.) Plaintiff also
filed a Policy of Equity (“POE”) complaint against her supervisor, Commander
Josie Woolum in August 2021 for harassment. (Id., ¶ 26.) Shortly after,
Plaintiff was demoted and lost her command at the detention center, a decision allegedly
made by Sheriff Villanueva in conjunction with Commander Woolum and other
chiefs. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants discriminated against
her based on her status as an African-American female. (Id., ¶ 28.)
Plaintiff also alleges retaliation as a result of her serving as a witness
against LASD, complaining about her supervisors’ violations of Civil Service Rules,
and opposing other misconduct. (Id., ¶¶ 29-43.) 
            On August 11, 2023, Defendant County
filed the instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the
alternative. Plaintiff filed her opposition on October 13, 2023. Defendant
filed its reply on October 20, 2023.     
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations
is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues
delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App.
3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden
of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish
a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendant’s Evidence

Plaintiff’s objections are
     overruled.

Defendant’s
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence
 

The following
     objections are overruled:

 


Objection Nos.
      2 and 4 to the declaration of Yaqi Xie.
Objection No.
      13 to the declaration of Lorraine Anda. 
Objection
      Nos. 4, 5, 8-21, 25-27, and 30-37 to the declaration of Angela Walton.
Objection
      Nos. 4-6 and 11 to the declaration of John Perez. 
Objection
      Nos. 3-8 to the declaration of Diana Holloway. 


 

The remaining
     objections are not pertinent to the Court’s disposition of the motion.
     (Code Civ. Proc., § 427c(q).) 

 
DISCUSSION
I.
Whistleblower Retaliation (Labor Code)
            Labor Code section 1102.5,
subdivision (b) makes it unlawful for an employer to retaliate against an
employee for reporting a perceived violation of a local, state, or federal
statute or regulation. “[O]nce it has been demonstrated by a preponderance of
the evidence that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5 was a contributing
factor in the alleged prohibited action against the employee, the employer
shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that the alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons
even if the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section
1102.5.” (Id., § 1102.6.) The traditional McDonnell-Douglas framework
does not apply, and the plaintiff is not required to rebut with evidence of
pretext. (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th
703, 712.) 
            a. Protected Activity
                        1.
Reporting Woolum’s Harassment
Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not
engage in protected activity. However, Plaintiff at least reported Woolum’s
alleged harassment to Woolum’s supervisor, Chief Margarita Velazquez. (Plntf.’s
Additional Facts (AF) 320-328.) Plaintiff informed Velazquez that she believed
Woolum was harassing her based on her race and was retaliating against her for
filing a prior sexual harassment lawsuit. (AF 327.) Harassment based on race
and retaliation for opposing sexual harassment are both prohibited under FEHA.
Therefore, a reasonable jury may find that Plaintiff engaged in protected
activity by reporting illegal conduct to Velazquez. 
            Defendant relies on Mueller v.
County of Los Angeles (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 809, 822 for the proposition
that complaining about personnel matters like micromanagement does not
constitute protected activity. However, as discussed above, Plaintiff reported harassment
based on race and retaliation for opposing sexual harassment, neither of which are
routine personnel matters. Additionally, personnel decisions may be considered
harassment. (See Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 708.) At
the very least, a jury may find that Plaintiff reported a “reasonably based
suspicion of illegal activity.” (See Mokler v. County of Orange (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 121, 138.) 
                        2. Opposing Unlawful
Retaliation
            As part of her first cause of
action, Plaintiff also alleged that she refused to participate in unlawful
activity. (FAC ¶ 47.) Specifically, Plaintiff resisted calls to retaliate
against a sergeant who had resisted sexual harassment. Lieutenant Jennifer Ford
had instructed Plaintiff to falsely reprimand Sergeant Lorraine Anda after Anda
rejected Ford’s sexual advances. (AF 423-426.) Plaintiff refused to falsely
reprimand Anda. (AF 426.) Falsely reprimanding a subordinate for resisting
sexual advances arguably constitutes unlawful retaliation under FEHA. Therefore,
a reasonable jury may find that Plaintiff engaged in protected activity by “refusing
to participate in an activity that would result in a violation” of law. (See Lab.
Code, § 1102.5(c).) 
                        3.
Opposing Violations of Department Policy
            Plaintiff also reprimanded a subordinate,
Deputy Alejandra Godinez, for wearing her hair in a way that violated department
policy. (AF 286-289.) Afterwards, Defendant Villanueva held a public meeting
and announced that he did not want anyone being written up for wearing their hair
wrong. (AF 290.) Plaintiff took this to mean that Villanueva was instructing
her to abandon her reprimand of Godinez. (Ibid.) Plaintiff resisted this
instruction and followed through with the discipline. (AF 291.) Plaintiff also
wrote up another subordinate, Custody Assistant Brenda Lopez, for operating an
inmate beauty shop to cut hair during the pandemic, in violation of the
governor’s stay-at-home order. (AF 293-296.) Lopez told Villanueva about the
reprimand, and Villanueva instructed Plaintiff to reinstate Lopez to continue
providing beauty services. (AF 298-299.) Plaintiff refused under the belief
that it would be unlawful for Lopez to operate the beauty shop under the
governor’s COVID orders. (AF 299.) 
            Defendant argues that none of this
constitutes whistleblowing under Section 1102.5 because the issues with Godinez
and Lopez were resolved, and Plaintiff was able to follow through with the
discipline. (Def.’s Undisputed Facts (UF) 28-31.) However, that does not negate
the fact that Plaintiff engaged in protected activity by refusing to participate
in unlawful activity. (See Lab. Code, § 1102.5(c).) A reasonable jury may find
that Plaintiff engaged in protected activity by resisting Villanueva’s
instructions to allow Godinez and Lopez to violate department policy or the
governor’s orders.
            In sum, a reasonable jury may find
that any one of the above, or all of the above, constitute protected activity. 
            
b. Adverse Employment Action
            An adverse employment action is any
“course or pattern of conduct that, taken as a whole, materially and adversely
affected the terms, and conditions of a plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v.
Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1063.) “A
change that is merely contrary to the employee's interests or not to the
employee's liking is insufficient.” (McRae v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 377, 386.) A retaliation claim cannot
be premised on a “minor change in working conditions or trivial action.” (Ibid.)

            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
transfer from the Century Regional Detention Facility (CRDF) to Court Services West
Bureau did not constitute an adverse employment action because it was a lateral
transfer where Plaintiff maintained her rank and salary and actually had a more
flexible schedule. (UF 40-44.) However, Plaintiff disputes this with evidence
that the CRDF was a more coveted position that made it easier to promote to
Commander. (Plntf.’s Resp. to UF 40.) 
By
contrast, Court Services has traditionally been used as a dumping ground for
personnel, farther away from the attention of higher-ups. (Ibid.) “[R]educed
promotional opportunities may constitute an adverse employment action under the
FEHA.” (Akers v. County of San Diego (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1456.) A
reasonable jury may find that the transfer to Court Services constitutes an
adverse employment action.  
            Defendant also claims that Plaintiff
has not been demoted from the Court Services position. According to Defendant,
Plaintiff will be reinstated to the exact same captain position when she
returns from medical leave. (UF 68-69.) However, Commander Joseph Williams told
Plaintiff that she was being replaced by another captain at Court Services, and
when Plaintiff asked where she would be placed instead, Williams could not
answer. (Plntf.’s Resp. to UF 68.) Plaintiff was then removed from the LASD
organizational chart listing the supervisors in the various divisions within
the sheriff’s department. (Plntf.’s Ex. G.) Plaintiff’s name is not listed as
one of the captains under the Court Services Division. (Ibid.) Interpreting
the evidence in favor of Plaintiff, it may be reasonably inferred that
Plaintiff has been demoted out of Court Services.
            In sum, there is a triable issue
over whether Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action.  
            c. Causal Connection
            “Close proximity in time of an adverse
action to an employee’s resistance or opposition to unlawful conduct is often
strong evidence of retaliatory motive.” (Taylor v. Los Angeles DWP
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1235.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s 2013
lawsuit cannot form the basis for retaliation because it is too far removed from
the alleged adverse employment actions. Defendant also argues that there is no
causal connection between Plaintiff’s August 2021 transfer and a use of force
incident in October 2021 because the adverse employment action occurred before
the protected activity. 
However, Plaintiff was transferred from
CRDF to Court Services a mere five days after complaining to Velazquez about
Woolum. (AF 326, 329.) Furthermore, Plaintiff was notified by Williams that she
was being replaced at Court Services only seven days after refusing to corroborate
Villanueva’s narrative regarding the use of force incident. (AF 383-386.) Plaintiff’s
evidence sufficiently supports a causal connection to raise a triable issue for
the jury to resolve.
d. Pretext
As cited above, a plaintiff suing under
Labor Code section 1102.5 does not need to rebut the employer’s proffered
justification with evidence of pretext. (Lawson, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p.
712.) This is because Section 1102.6 sets forth the burden of proof and only
requires a plaintiff to demonstrate that retaliation was a “contributing factor”
to an adverse employment action. In other words, “[e]ven if the employer had a
genuine, nonretaliatory reason for its adverse action, the plaintiff still
carries the burden assigned by statute if it is shown that the employer also
had at least one retaliatory reason that was a contributing factor in the
action.” (Id. at p. 716.) 
Plaintiff has demonstrated at least one
retaliatory reason with the evidence discussed above. A reasonable jury may
find that retaliation was a contributing factor to the adverse employment
actions against Plaintiff. Thus, there is a triable issue as to the whistleblower
claim even if Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that Defendant’s proffered reasons
are pretextual. 
II.
Discrimination (FEHA)
            Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (a) prohibits an employer from discriminating against an employee
based on a protected characteristic. In order to establish a claim of
discrimination, Plaintiffs must prove: (1) they are in a protected class; (2)
an adverse employment action was taken against them; (3) at the time of the
adverse action they were satisfactorily performing their jobs; and (4) some
other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel
(2000) 24 Cal. 4th 317, 355.)
Under the McDonnell-Douglas
framework, (1) the plaintiff must initially establish a prima facie case of discrimination,
(2) the defendant must then articulate a legitimate nonretaliatory explanation
for its acts, and (3) in response, the plaintiff must show that this
explanation is pretextual. (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005)
134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.) However, this is the burden of proof for trial,
and it does not change the defendant’s initial burden on summary judgment. (Cornell
v. Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 926.) Therefore, on
summary judgment, the defendant employer must either (1) undermine an element
of the plaintiff’s prima facie case or (2) provide a legitimate nonretaliatory
reason for the adverse employment action. (Ibid.) 
a. Adverse Employment Action
Defendant reiterates its argument that
Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse employment action. As discussed above, this
is a triable issue. 
 
 
b. Discriminatory Motive
“Proof of discriminatory intent often depends
on inferences rather than direct evidence.” (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 283.) Therefore, “very little evidence of such
intent is necessary to defeat summary judgment.” (Ibid.) “[S]ummary
judgment should not be granted unless the evidence cannot support any
reasonable inference for plaintiff.” (Ibid.) 
Here, two of Plaintiff’s subordinates at
CRDF, both African-American women, were replaced with Caucasian men after
Plaintiff was transferred out of CRDF. (AF 387-388.) Additionally, Woolum once
commented that “it is getting mighty dark upstairs,” potentially referencing African-Americans
in leadership positions. (UF 19.) Considering the “very little evidence”
required, this sufficiently raises a triable issue as to discriminatory motive.

c. Legitimate Reason
“Generally in cases involving affirmative
adverse employment actions, pretext may be demonstrated by showing the
proffered reason had no basis in fact, the proffered reason did not actually
motivate the discharge, or, the proffered reason was insufficient to motivate
discharge.” (Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5
Cal.App.5th 570, 594, internal citations omitted.) “[T]he same evidence can be
used both to set forth a prima facie case of discrimination, and to demonstrate
the existence of a triable issue of fact on the issue of pretext.” (DeJung
v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 554.) “If triable issues of
material fact exist whether discrimination was a substantial motivating reason
for the employer's adverse employment action, even if the employer's professed
legitimate reason has not been disputed, the FEHA claim is not properly resolved
on summary judgment.” (Husman v. Toyota Motor Credit Corp. (2017) 12
Cal.App.5th 1168, 1186.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff was
transferred out of CRDF due to concerns of supervisory misconduct, including
hazing of new deputies and fraternization with inmates. (UF 34.) The hazing
supposedly led to the resignation of sixteen deputies. (Ibid.) The
personnel at CRDF expressed concerns about Plaintiff not taking appropriate and
timely action. (UF 36.) Villanueva was informed of these concerns and made the
decision to transfer Plaintiff to Court Services to allow her to try her
leadership skills in a new environment. (UF 37-38, 40.) Defendant further
contends that Plaintiff was replaced at Court Services because a captain was
needed to preserve normal operations, and Plaintiff was out for an extended
amount of time due to medical leave. (UF 58-60.)
On the other hand, Plaintiff reported the
fraternization incident to Woolum and Velazquez, which resulted in two deputies
being removed. (Plntf.’s Ex. 5 (Walton Decl.) ¶ 50.) Neither Woolum nor Velazquez
expressed concerns to Plaintiff regarding how the incident was handled. (Ibid.)
Villanueva did not receive any concerns over the investigation being conducted
improperly. (Plntf.’s Ex. D (Villanueva Depo.) at 29:13-17.) There was no
indication that the deputies resigned primarily due to hazing while Plaintiff was
captain at CRDF. (Plntf.’s Ex. 2 (Perez Decl.) ¶ 12.) Interviews with resigning
deputies revealed that many left due to COVID restrictions. (Ibid.) Some
said they resigned due to scheduling issues or concerns with the training
program. (Plntf.’s Ex. E (Velazquez Depo.) at 181:1-16.) The captain who
replaced Plaintiff at CRDF, Geradette Montoya, was not removed despite a murder
and attempted escape occurring under her command. (AF 363-372.) A high number of
deputies also resigned under Montoya’s command. (AF 442-443.) 
Plaintiff’s evidence raises a triable issue
regarding the credibility of Defendant’s proffered justifications. A reasonable
jury may find that Plaintiff properly investigated the fraternization incidents,
that Defendant had no reason to believe deputies resigned because of hazing
incidents occurring under Plaintiff’s command, and that Plaintiff was treated more
harshly than Montoya despite arguably more serious incidents occurring under
Montoya’s command. Combined with the evidence of discriminatory motive,
discussed above, a jury may reasonably infer that Defendant’s proffered
justifications are pretextual. 
In sum, there are material disputes of
fact relating to the FEHA discrimination claim which preclude summary
adjudication.   
III.
Retaliation (FEHA)
            To establish a prima facie case of FEHA retaliation, Plaintiff must show:
(1) he engaged in a “protected activity”; (2) the employer subjected him to an
adverse employment action; and (3) a causal link existed between the protected
activity and the employer’s action. (Moore v. Regents of University of
California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244.) 
            The
analysis of this claim largely parallels the analysis above. Defendant
reiterates the same arguments, which have been addressed. In sum, there are
triable issues precluding summary adjudication of the FEHA retaliation claim. 
IV. Failure to
Prevent
            FEHA
requires an employer to “take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov. Code, § 12940(k).)
Defendant argues that this claim fails because the underlying discrimination
and retaliation claims fail. However, those claims survive for the reasons
discussed above. Therefore, the failure to prevent claim survives as well. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is DENIED.
             