 Case Number:  23STCV12080    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
GERRA IYOB-TESSEMA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
M STREET KITCHEN LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV12080
  Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff Gerra
Iyob-Tessema, on behalf of the State of California and other aggrieved persons,
filed this PAGA action against Defendants M Street Kitchens LLC, Lettuce
Entertain You Enterprises, Inc., and Restaurant Personnel, Inc., seeking
penalties for alleged wage violations. 
            On September 15, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 16, 2023. Defendants’ filed
their reply on October 20, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy
and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.”
(Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Existence of Valid Agreement
            Plaintiff
does not dispute Defendants’ evidence that he signed an arbitration agreement
covering the claims at issue. (See Murakami Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff does not
oppose proceeding with arbitration of her individual claims under Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906. Therefore, the Court
finds that Defendants have proven the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement. 
II.
Disposition of the Non-Individual PAGA Claims
            Plaintiff’s opposition is limited
to the issue of staying litigation of the remaining representative PAGA claims.
“If a court . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court . . . the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration
is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as
the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  
            “[T]he trial court may exercise its
discretion to stay the non-individual claims pending the outcome of the
arbitration.” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104,
1123.) Such a stay is warranted because an arbitrator’s findings may have
preclusive effect on the litigation of the representative claims, particularly
on the issue of Plaintiff’s standing as an “aggrieved employee.” (See id.
at p. 1124; see also Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 65, 77-78.) “Because the issues subject to litigation under the
PAGA might overlap those that are subject to arbitration of [Plaintiff’s] individual
claims, the trial court must order an appropriate stay of trial court
proceedings.” (Franco v. Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 947, 966.) “The stay's purpose is to preserve the status quo until
the arbitration is resolved, preventing any continuing trial court
proceedings from disrupting and rendering ineffective the arbitrator's
jurisdiction to decide the issues that are subject to arbitration.” (Ibid.)

            Plaintiff argues that his individual
claims against Defendants are distinct from the representative claims Plaintiff
is pursuing on behalf of the State. However, “[w]hen an action includes
arbitrable and nonarbitrable components, the resulting bifurcated proceedings
are not severed from one another.” (Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1125.)
Instead, “the cause remains one action, parts of which may be stayed pending
completion of the arbitration.” (Ibid.) Both the individual and non-individual
claims remain as part of one action and arise from similar alleged violations.
Therefore, they involve overlapping issues, warranting a stay of the court
action while the arbitration proceeds.  
Plaintiff argues that Leenay v.
Superior Court (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 553 supports his position and distinguishes
the Franco case cited above. However, Leenay addressed the issue of
whether Section 1281.4 “authorize[s] the court to stay a plaintiff's action on
the basis of a pending arbitration to which the plaintiff is not a party.” (Id.
at p. 559.) This is not an issue in our case because Plaintiff is indisputably
a party to an arbitration between Plaintiff and Defendants. Leenay
distinguished Franco on the grounds that “[t]he Franco stay
was based on an arbitration between the plaintiff and the defendant in the
pending action . . . [whereas] no court has ordered Leenay and the other
plaintiffs in the coordinated actions to arbitrate their claims with Lowe's,
and plaintiffs have no pending arbitrations with Lowe's.” (Leenay, supra, 81
Cal.App.5th at p. 570.) But in this case, Plaintiff is a party to a pending
arbitration with Defendants, and this Court has ordered Plaintiff to
arbitrate her claims with Defendants. Therefore, this case is more analogous to
Franco, not Leenay. 
Furthermore, Leenay actually
supports a stay in this case because it affirms that Section 1281.4 “requires a
court to stay an action pending arbitration ‘of a controversy which is an issue
involved’ in the action.” (Leenay, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 558-59.) Here,
the issue of Defendants’ purported Labor Code violations is an issue involved in
both the court action and the pending arbitration. A stay is therefore necessary
to prevent duplicative or inconsistent rulings on overlapping issues that would
occur if the arbitration and court case proceeded simultaneously.
Plaintiff argues that “delay in
prosecution is contrary to the legislative purpose of PAGA to increase
enforcement of the Labor Code.” (Opp. 4:8-9.) However, none of the cited
caselaw stands for the proposition that a stay of non-individual claims
violates PAGA’s purposes. Additionally, where the parties have agreed to
arbitration, “arbitrable claims [must] be compelled to arbitration even where
the result would be the possibly inefficient maintenance of separate
proceedings in different forums.” (Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1125.)
To the extent there is any inefficiency in prosecuting the PAGA claims, it is a
result of the parties’ agreement to arbitrate coupled with the U.S. Supreme
Court’s ruling in Viking River. The stay is necessary because the action
is being bifurcated between two different forums dealing with overlapping
issues. It is in the interests of efficiency to prevent duplicative litigation.
Plaintiff asserts that if he is found not to
be an “aggrieved employee,” another employee can replace him to represent the State
on the non-individual PAGA claims. This argument was rejected by the Court of
Appeal in Hargrove v. Legacy Healthcare, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 782,
790-92. Even assuming another employee could substitute in, that does not negate
the fact that there are other overlapping issues beyond standing that should
not be litigated simultaneously in two different forums. 
//
//
//
//
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. The action is
stayed as to the remaining non-individual PAGA claims pending the outcome of
arbitration.