  Case Number:  21STCV07398    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
kristina
  turpin,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LEARNING WITH A
  DIFFERENCE, INC. 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV07398
  Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL independent
  mental examination of plaintiff 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 24, 2021, Kristina
Turpin (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment discrimination action against
Learning with a Difference, Inc. (“Defendant”). One of the causes of action asserted
is intentional infliction of emotional distress. Additionally, Plaintiff
alleges continued emotional distress under her other causes of action. Accordingly,
Defendant seeks to conduct an independent mental examination (IME) of Plaintiff.

            Defendant filed the instant motion
to compel IME on October 4, 2023. Plaintiff filed her opposition on October 16,
2023. Defendant filed its reply on October 19, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an
agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal
control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition
(including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).) “If any party desires to
obtain discovery by . . . a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) “The court shall grant a motion
for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown.” (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)
DISCUSSION
“[A] party who chooses to allege that he
has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.” (Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839.) Here, good
cause exists for the examination because Plaintiff has placed her mental
condition in controversy through her allegations. (See, e.g., Compl. ¶¶ 60,
68, 77, 185.) Defendant is entitled to a mental examination of Plaintiff to
determine the extent of Plaintiff’s mental injuries and their causes. Plaintiff
does not dispute Defendant’s right to take an IME and maintains that she is
willing to stipulate to the IME given certain protections. 
a. Raw Test Data
Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to
the raw test data under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610(a), which
allows the examined party to demand “[a] copy of a detailed written report
setting out the history, examinations, findings, including the results of all
tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner” and “[a]
copy of reports of all earlier examinations of the same condition of the
examinee made by that or any other examiner.”
Defendant points out that raw test data is
not included among the list of materials required to be produced under Section
2032.610(a). “There is no statutory authority, however, precluding a trial
court from ordering the disclosure of test materials or test data when ordering
a mental examination.” (Randy's Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023)
91 Cal.App.5th 818, 834.) “[G]iven the trial court's broad discretion in
discovery matters, the trial court nevertheless has the power to order
disclosure of test materials and data to the plaintiff's attorney.” (Id.
at p. 835.) Defendant acknowledges the Court’s discretion but takes issue with conditioning
the IME on the production of test data. Defendant contends that the test data
may be produced after the IME takes place, not before. 
Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated
good cause for the production of the raw test data. Plaintiff explains that the
data is necessary to effectively cross-examine Dr. Cohen and ensure the legitimacy
of the examination. (See Randy's Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at pp.
834-35; Evid. Code, § 721.) Defendant does not articulate any reason to
preclude Plaintiff from obtaining the raw test data, including test questions,
and in fact had previously “agreed to place language in the stipulation to
allow Plaintiff to seek the test questions after the mental exam had been
conducted should she want it.” (Mtn. 12:6-8.) Therefore, Plaintiff may obtain
the raw test data, including test questions, after the IME concludes. 
b. Identifying the Tests Used
“An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320(d).) “The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and
procedures’—fully and in detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.) 
According to Defendant’s proposed order,
Dr. Cohen “will conduct some or all of the following tests/examinations,
depending on the course of the first part of the examination . . . .” (Proposed
Order ¶ 7.) The proposed order proceeds to list the various tests. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff argues that Defendant must specify the tests that will actually be
performed, not just list out a series of potential tests. Plaintiff further contends
that Defendant must articulate good cause for the tests used. 
Defendant has sufficiently articulated
good cause for the IME and listed the diagnostic tests by name, as required. Which
specific tests are ultimately used may depend on how the IME progresses. The
Court defers to Dr. Cohen, as the expert, to determine which tests will be
necessary as the IME progresses. (See Carpenter, supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at
p. 263 [“the examiner should have some discretion in choosing the manner and
means of conducting the examination”].)  
c. Video/Audio Recording
“The examiner and examinee shall have the
right to record a mental examination by audio technology.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.530(a).) The Code is silent on videotaping. Plaintiff objected to videotaping
the IME, and “Defendant’s counsel responded agreeing to no video.” (Mtn.
7:14-15; Walgampaya Decl., Ex. C.) Therefore, the IME may be audio recorded but
not videotaped. 
d. Other Stipulations
Lastly, the parties agreed to include
certain terms in the stipulation that Defendant now excludes from its proposed
order. (See Opp. 6:6-9:9.) Defendant does not deny agreeing to the inclusions
and does not explain why the previously agreed-upon terms have been omitted.
Therefore, the IME shall proceed in accordance with these other undisputed
conditions as well.
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel mental
exam is GRANTED as set forth above. 