 Case Number:  23STCV19576    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
EUGENE POPOK,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MIKHAIL MEKK, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV19576
  Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ special motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff Eugene
Popok filed this action against Defendants Mikhail Mekk and Mission Organic
Center Inc., asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (3) fraud. 
            Plaintiff alleges that the parties
entered into a settlement agreement in August 2019. (Compl. ¶ 8, Ex. 1.) Defendants
allegedly breached the agreement’s confidentiality provision by disclosing the
settlement without Plaintiff’s consent during a trial of a previous case
between the parties (LC107612). (Id., ¶ 15.) The breach allegedly
contributed to Defendants’ victory in the prior trial and cost Plaintiff the
opportunity to sell his interest in Mission Organic Center Inc. (MOC) to his
bail bondsman, Kamenetsky, for $750,000. (Id., ¶¶ 16-17.) Plaintiff
also allegedly lost attorneys’ fees and costs paid in the appeal of case
LC107612 as a result of the breach. (Id., ¶ 18.) 
            On October 3, 2023, Defendants filed
the instant anti-SLAPP motion. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 13,
2023. Defendants filed their reply on October 18, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
A special motion to strike under Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16 allows a defendant to seek early dismissal of a
lawsuit that qualifies as a strategic lawsuit against public participation. A
SLAPP is “a cause of action against a person arising from any act of that
person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under
the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)
Such acts include (1) any written or oral
statement or writing made before a judicial proceeding, (2) any written or oral
statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or
review by a judicial body, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in
a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, sub. (e).)
Evaluation of an anti-SLAPP motion
requires a two-prong process. First, the court decides whether the defendant
has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity. Second, if the court finds such a showing has been
made, the court must then consider whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a
probability of prevailing on the claim. (Nygard, Inc. v. Uusi-Kerttula
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1035.) If both prongs are met—(1) the defendant is
being sued for protected activity, and (2) the plaintiff has no reasonable probability
of success—then the lawsuit is subject to being stricken under the statute. (Dwight
R. v. Christy B. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 697, 709-10.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Protected Activity
            To satisfy the first prong, a moving
defendant must identify the activity each challenged claim rests on and
demonstrate that that activity is protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. (Wilson
v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 884.) A “claim may be struck
only if the speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of,
and not just evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for
which liability is asserted.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1060.)  
            Defendants argue that the disclosure
of the settlement during a lawsuit constitutes making a “written or oral
statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16(e)(1).) The Court agrees. Because all of Plaintiff’s claims are
based on this alleged disclosure, the complaint targets protected activity. 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendants have
failed to demonstrate that the claims arise from Defendants’ acts “in
connection with a public issue.” (Opp. 2:8-10.) However, making a statement “in
connection with an issue of public interest” is only one of the four types of protected
activity covered under the anti-SLAPP statute. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16(e).) Defendants’ statements to the trial court constitute statements
made before a judicial proceeding, so Defendants do not need to separately
prove that the statements concern matters of public interest. (See id.,
§ 425.16(e)(1); Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999)
19 Cal.4th 1106, 1123.) Therefore, the statements fall under anti-SLAPP protection,
and Defendants have satisfied the first prong. 
II.
Probability of Success
“If the defendant makes the required
showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the
claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Area 55, LLC v.
Nicholas & Tomasevic (2021) LLP, 61 Cal.App.5th 136, 150.) A plaintiff
establishes a probability of prevailing on the claim by showing that the complaint
is legally sufficient and supported by a prima facie showing of facts that, if
proved at trial, would support a judgment in the plaintiff's favor. (Taus v.
Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 713-14.) Rather than weighing the evidence,
the court must “accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff . . . The
plaintiff need only establish that his or her claim has ‘minimal merit’ to
avoid being stricken as a SLAPP . . . .” (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.¿) The defendant’s showing is only analyzed “to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.” (Area 55,
supra, 61 Cal.App.5th at p. 151.)
a. Litigation Privilege
Civil Code section 47(b) makes privileged
any publication made in a judicial proceeding, with certain exceptions. “[C]ommunications
with ‘some relation’ to judicial proceedings have been absolutely immune from
tort liability by the privilege.” (Rubin v. Green (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187,
1193.) However, “the litigation privilege does not necessarily bar liability
for breach of contract claims” because a defendant cannot use the privilege to
escape a contractual obligation to maintain confidentiality. (Vivian v. Labrucherie
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 267, 276.) Nonetheless, the privilege will apply to
breach of contract if “the agreement on which plaintiff relies does not clearly
prohibit the conduct that plaintiff challenges.” (Ibid.) In other words,
if the disclosure at issue is not actually prohibited by the contract, the
disclosure remains privileged. 
Here, the disclosure of the settlement
agreement during the prior trial falls under the privilege as a statement made
in the course of a judicial proceeding. Therefore, Plaintiff’s fraud claim
fails as a matter of law. (See Rubin, supra, 4 Cal.4th at p. 1193 [Section
47(b) grants absolute immunity from tort liability].) As for breach of
contract, the settlement agreement upon which Plaintiff relies does not clearly
prohibit the conduct Plaintiff complains of, i.e., mentioning a
settlement without disclosing its terms or amount. (See Vivian, supra, 214
Cal.App.4th at p. 276; Plntf.’s RJN, Ex. 4, pp. 2-3.) The confidentiality
clause prohibits disclosure of the “terms and amount of this Agreement.”
(Compl. ¶ 9.) It does not prohibit the mere mention of a settlement or
discussion of the fact of settlement. Plaintiff presents no evidence showing
that Defendants breached the settlement agreement by disclosing its terms or
amount. Because the wrong complained of is not actually prohibited by the
agreement, the litigation privilege applies. 
b. Defendants’ Breach
Even if the privilege does not apply to
the breach of contract claim, the claim still fails because Plaintiff cannot
demonstrate that Defendants breached the confidentiality clause. Again, the
clause prohibits disclosing the terms and amount of the settlement. It does not
prohibit any and all discussion of a settlement. In fact, according to
Plaintiff’s own allegations, the confidentiality clause expressly allows the
parties to “respond to any inquiry about the status of their dispute by
stating that the matter has been settled.” (Compl. ¶ 9.) The
confidentiality clause also states that disclosure is permitted “when otherwise
required by process of law.” (Compl., Ex. 1, § 13.) Therefore, the fact that
the trial court acknowledged Plaintiff’s settlement of his claims is not
evidence that Defendants breached the settlement agreement. (See Plntf.’s RJN,
Ex. 4, pp. 2-3.) To the contrary, discussing the fact of settlement is allowed
by the confidentiality clause. 
c. Damages
Lastly, Plaintiff’s claims fail because
Plaintiff cannot establish damages. “The court found that Popok’s rights in and
relationship with MOC terminated on April 13, 2018, several weeks before he
purportedly transferred his rights to Kamenetsky.” (Def.’s RJN, Ex. B, p. 22.)
Therefore, as a matter of law, Plaintiff could not have lost the opportunity to
sell his interest in MOC to Kamenetsky for $750,000 as alleged, because Plaintiff
did not have any interest in MOC at the time. Plaintiff presents no evidence showing
otherwise.  
In sum, Plaintiff has no probability of
success because the claims are barred by the litigation privilege, Plaintiff
cannot demonstrate Defendants’ breach, and Plaintiff cannot demonstrate his damages.
   
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ special motion to strike
is GRANTED.
 