 Case Number:  23STCV06409    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
ALEX REED, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
NATHALIE DIERICKX, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV06409
  Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants byung sun choi’s and anna
  choi’s demurrer and motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 22, 2023, Plaintiffs Alex
Reed and Charlotte Zhang filed this action against Defendants Nathalie
Dierickx, Byung Sun Choi, and Anna Choi. The complaint asserts causes of action
arising from (1) negligence, (2) warranty of habitability, (3) implied covenant
of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress, (5)
excessive collection of rent, (6) tenant harassment, (7) retaliation, (8)
collection of rent on untenable dwelling, (9) nuisance, and (10) intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
            Plaintiffs are tenants of two
different units at the subject property. (Compl. ¶¶ 1-2.) Defendants are the
alleged owners, managers, or landlords of the property. (Id., ¶¶ 3-5.)
The property is a mixed-use building with a commercial manufacturing
designation for zoning purposes. (Id., ¶ 10.) While the first floor of
the building contains a bodega and shops, the second floor consists of thirteen
unpermitted studios and two bathrooms. (Ibid.) The certificate of
occupancy for the property is for dance studios, but approximately half of the
studios on the second floor have been used as residential units since 2013. (Id.,
¶ 11.) Defendant Dierickx allegedly leases the second floor of the property
from the Choi Defendants, and Plaintiffs subleased the individual units. (Id.,
¶¶ 12-13.) 
            Defendants did not register
Plaintiffs’ tenancies as required by law but nonetheless collected rent.
(Compl. ¶¶ 19-20.) Then, Defendants allegedly made Plaintiff Reed sign a bogus
commercial lease agreement for her unit because they knew that the studios were
not up to code and that there were no permits for residential units. (Id.,
¶ 21.) Defendants were allegedly aware that Plaintiffs and other tenants
resided at the property and used the units as live/work artist studios. (Id.,
¶ 28.)  
            During their tenancies, Plaintiffs
were subjected to numerous defective conditions, of which they informed
Defendants. (Compl. ¶¶ 36-37.) Defendants allegedly failed to address the
defects despite an order from LADBS. (Id., ¶¶ 44-45.) Instead, Defendant
Dierickx allegedly began a campaign of attempting to force Plaintiffs to vacate
the property in retaliation, and Defendants continued to unlawfully demand rent
from Plaintiffs. (Id., ¶¶ 55-68.)
            On September 18 and 19, 2023, the Choi
Defendants filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiffs filed
their opposition on October 13, 2023. Defendants replied on October 19, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Cary
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Landlord-Tenant Relationship
            “[T]he general rule [is] that a
sublessee may not sue the lessor for breach of covenant [because] as between an
original lessor and a sublessee, there is no privity of contract.” (Marchese
v. Standard Realty & Dev. Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 142, 147.) However, an
exception exists where the lessor has expressly agreed to a sublease. (Ibid.)

            The Choi Defendants argue that they
are not in privity with Plaintiffs because Plaintiffs subleased their units
from Defendant Dierickx. The subleases attached to the complaint are signed by
Dierickx and Plaintiffs only, not the Choi Defendants. However, the complaint
alleges that the Defendants are agents of each other, that Dierickx acted at
the behest of the Choi Defendants, and that the Choi Defendants knew how the
property was being used. (Compl. ¶¶ 6, 26, 28, 32.) Therefore, it may be
reasonably inferred that the Choi Defendants agreed to the subleases. The
allegations in the complaint do not preclude this possibility, so the lack of
privity is not a flaw that appears on the face of the complaint. Additionally,
the complaint alleges that the Chois are the landlords of the building, which
must be taken as true. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.)
II.
Duty of Care
            The Choi Defendants argue that they
were not in any special relationship with Plaintiffs that warrants owing a duty
of care for purposes of negligence. However, a landlord-tenant relationship is a
special relationship. (Regents of University of California v. Superior Court
(2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 620.) As discussed above, the allegations support a
reasonable inference that the Choi Defendants were Plaintiffs’ landlords. 
            The Choi Defendants argue that they
had relinquished control to Dierickx and therefore their duty to Plaintiffs was
more attenuated. However, the complaint does not reveal on its face that the Chois
relinquished control to Dierickx. Instead, as discussed above, Dierickx
allegedly acted as agent for the Chois and at the behest of the Chois. Additionally,
even where the landlord relinquishes control, the landlord would still be
liable if “the landlord had actual knowledge of the dangerous condition in
question, plus the right and ability to cure the condition.” (Mata v. Mata
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1121, 1132.) Here, the complaint alleges that the Chois
knew that the property was being used for residential purposes and knew about
the uninhabitable conditions. (Compl. ¶¶ 28, 37, 44.) As the building owners,
the Chois presumably had the ability to cure the defective conditions. Therefore,
the complaint alleges sufficient facts to infer a duty of care. The negligence
claim and associated NIED claim are adequately pled. 
III.
Excessive Collection of Rent
            The Choi Defendants first argue that
there are no allegations they collected rent. However, the complaint alleges
that “Defendants, and each of them, collected, demanded, and retained rent from
Plaintiffs.” (Compl. ¶ 49.) This includes the Chois. 
            Defendants next argue that the rent
stabilization ordinance (LARSO) does not apply to the subject property because
LARSO defines a dwelling unit to be “a group of two or more rooms, one of which
is a kitchen, designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping
purposes.” (Carter v. Cohen (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1047.)
Defendants contend that the complaint’s description of the second floor as containing
art studios and two bathrooms (Compl. ¶ 10) does not satisfy this definition.
However, the LARSO broadly covers “[a]ll dwelling units, efficiency dwelling
units, guest rooms, and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code, and all housing accommodations as defined in Government Code Section
12927, and duplexes and condominiums in the City of Los Angeles, rented or
offered for rent for living or dwelling purposes, the land and buildings
appurtenant thereto, and all housing services, privileges, furnishings and
facilities supplied in connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including
garage and parking facilities.” (LAMC § 151.02.) The studios as described in
the complaint fall under this definition. 
            Defendants argue that the complaint
does not specify the RSO rent limit or by how much the rent collected exceeds
this amount. However, for pleading purposes, the complaint sufficiently alleges
that Plaintiffs made “excessive rental payments.” (Compl. ¶ 125.) The precise
amounts can be ascertained in discovery. 
IV.
Commercial Use
            The Choi Defendants argue that because
the property was zoned for commercial use and Dierickx was the one who
subleased the units for residential use, Dierickx is liable, not the Chois.
However, as discussed above, the allegations sufficiently demonstrate that the
Chois were aware of how the property was being used and that Dierickx acted as
the agent for and at the behest of the Chois. 
The Chois cite no authority for the proposition
that a defendant may use commercial zoning to escape liability for uninhabitable
conditions where, as here, the defendant knows and approves of the building’s
usage for residential purposes. The law actually suggests the opposite. For
example, the implied warranty of habitability in a rental agreement is
enforceable despite the rental agreement being otherwise void for lacking a
certificate of occupancy. (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1295-96.) Enforcement is warranted “where the defendant
is the one guilty of the greatest moral fault” and to prevent “the defendant [from
being] unjustly enriched at the expense of the plaintiff.” (Id. at p.
1296.) As applied to the instant case, Defendants should not escape liability for
subjecting tenants to uninhabitable conditions where Defendants knowingly
leased the units for residential purposes. 
 Therefore,
the breach of warranty, breach of quiet enjoyment, and improper rent collection
claims apply to the Chois. 
V.
Tenant Harassment and Retaliation 
            The Chois argue that there are no
allegations that they harassed or retaliated against Plaintiffs because the
allegations only reference actions by Dierickx. However, a “landlord” for
purposes of the tenant harassment law is defined as “any owner, lessor,
sublessor, manager, and/or person, including any firm, corporation,
partnership, or other entity, having any legal or equitable right of ownership
or possession or the right to lease or receive rent for the use and occupancy
of a rental unit, and whether acting as principal or through an agent or
representative or successor of any of the foregoing.” (LAMC § 45.32.) As
discussed above, Dierickx allegedly acted as agent and at the behest of the
Chois. The Chois fall under the definition of landlord as owners and lessors
who acted through an agent or representative. 
VI.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
To state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must
establish: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real
Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.) “For conduct to be
outrageous, it must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated by a civilized community.” (Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 166, 172.)
The Chois argue that the complaint does
not allege any outrageous conduct attributable to them. However, the complaint alleges
that all Defendants, including the Chois, were on notice of the uninhabitable
conditions and failed to address them. (Compl. ¶¶ 36-37, 44-45.) Knowingly
subjecting tenants to uninhabitable conditions is sufficiently outrageous for
purposes of IIED.  
VII.
Nuisance
“Anything which is injurious to health . .
. or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use
of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property . . . is a nuisance.” (Civ. Code, § 3479.) “It is settled that where
conduct which violates a duty owed to another also interferes with that party's
free use and enjoyment of his property, nuisance liability arises.” (Cutujian
v. Benedict Hills Estates Assn. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1390.) 
Relying on El Escorial Owners' Assn. v.
DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, the Choi Defendants argue
that the nuisance claim is duplicative of the negligence claim and should
therefore be stricken. “Where negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on
the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.”
(Id. at p. 1349.) The court in El Escorial based its holding on a
concern that the definition of nuisance “is so broad that it could be applied
indiscriminately to everything.” (Id. at p. 1348.) The court therefore
held that the toxic mold contamination claim in that case “involves a
traditional tort that should not be litigated under the guise of a nuisance
action.” (Ibid.) At the same time, “whether a [nuisance] cause of action
is viable depends on the facts of each case.” (Ibid.) For example, “courts
have allowed plaintiffs to litigate nuisance causes of action in cases
involving housing conditions.” (Ibid.)  
            In Stoiber,
the court held that “[a] nuisance may be either a negligent or an intentional
tort.” (Stoiber, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at p. 920.) “The fact that the
defendants' alleged misconduct consists of omission rather than affirmative actions
does not preclude nuisance liability.” (Ibid.) The plaintiff in Stoiber
managed to demonstrate intentional conduct by alleging that the landlord had
actual knowledge of uninhabitable conditions and “acted with full knowledge of
the consequences thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their
conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.” (Ibid.) 
As discussed
above, the complaint here also alleges that Defendants intentionally ignored
dilapidated conditions and continued extracting rent. Like Stoiber, the
complaint also alleges that Defendants’ conduct was “despicable, malicious,
willful, knowing, cruel, unjust and oppressive, and shows extreme indifference
to Plaintiffs’ rights, health, and safety.” (Compl. ¶ 163.) Therefore, the
nuisance claim has been adequately pled.    
VIII.
Punitive Damages
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
As discussed above, the allegations
sufficiently demonstrate that the Chois were Plaintiffs’ landlords with the
capability and responsibility to address the uninhabitable conditions. Knowingly
subjecting tenants to uninhabitable conditions is sufficiently malicious and
oppressive for purposes of punitive damages. 
IX.
Attorneys’ Fees and Statutory Damages
            “Except as attorney’s fees are
specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.)   
            Here, Plaintiffs have asserted
multiple statutory claims that support attorneys’ fees and statutory damages.
As discussed above, these claims have been adequately pled against the Choi
Defendants. Therefore, the complaint properly pleads a basis for attorneys’
fees and statutory damages. 
CONCLUSION
            The Choi Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is DENIED.