 Case Number:  23STCV18929    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
TRIZAH MORRIS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
TIFFANY HADDISH, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV18929
  Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant tiffany hadish’s motion to
  seal 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff Trizah
Morris filed this action against Defendants Tiffany Haddish and Aries Spears,
asserting causes of action for (1) defamation, (2) injunctive relief, (3)
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and (4) unjust
enrichment. 
            On September 27, 2023, Defendant
Haddish filed a motion to compel arbitration. The same day, Defendant Haddish
also filed the instant motion to seal the motion to compel arbitration and
associated documents. On October 6, 2023, Defendant Spears filed joinders to
both motions. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Unless confidentiality is required by
law, court records are presumed to be open.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
2.550(c).) “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.” (Id., Rule 2.550(d).) “A record
must not be filed under seal without a court order.” (Id., Rule
2.551(a).)  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Haddish’s motion to
compel arbitration is entirely redacted. For the reasons discussed below, the
Court does not find sufficient cause to seal the entire motion to compel
arbitration. 
            a. Overriding Interest
            Defendant cites a confidentiality
provision in an agreement between herself and Plaintiff as the reason for
sealing the motion to compel arbitration. (See Exh. C to Haddish Decl. ISO Mtn.
to Compel Arb.) “[A] binding contractual agreement not to disclose” constitutes
a potential overriding interest. (Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.) 
            However, the Court does not find an
overriding interest in redacting the entire motion to compel arbitration,
including the legal arguments made and even the list of legal authorities
relied upon in the motion. Defendant argues that the confidentiality clause is
broad, “prohibiting disclosure of the Agreement, events leading to its signing
and the contents of the Agreement.” (Mtn. 3:15-16.) This broad coverage still
does not warrant the redaction of the entirety of the motion to compel. The
legal arguments made in support of arbitration, and the legal cases and statutes
cited, are not part of the Agreement or the events leading to the Agreement. 
            The Court does not find an
overriding interest that supports sealing the entirety of the motion to compel
arbitration. 
            b. Prejudice
            Defendant argues that she would be
prejudiced from being “forced to reveal terms that both Haddish and Morris
intended to keep confidential. Moreover, requiring Haddish to file documents
relating to the Agreement forces Haddish to act in contravention of the
confidentiality provision of the Agreement.” (Mtn. 3:25-27.) 
            While Defendant may be justified in
keeping the terms of the Agreement confidential, that justification does not
extend to the entirety of the motion to compel arbitration, including the legal
arguments made therein. Defendant has not demonstrated that filing an
unredacted points and authorities would force her to violate the Agreement. 
            The Court does not find that sealing
the entire motion to compel arbitration is necessary to avoid prejudice.
            c. Narrowly Tailored
            The Court finds that the requested
relief is not narrowly tailored. Defendant seeks to redact the entirety of the
motion to compel arbitration even though the confidentiality clause covers “the
Agreement, events leading to its signing and the contents of the Agreement.”
(Mtn. 3:15-16.) Less restrictive means exist, including, for example, redacting
only specific references to the Agreement. Broadly blacking out the entire
motion, down to the table of contents and list of authorities, is clearly not
the least restrictive means of preserving the interest in confidentiality. 
            In sum, Defendant has failed to
provide sufficient facts to support the necessary findings under Rule 2.550. Accordingly,
the motion to seal must be denied. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Tiffany Haddish’s motion
to seal is DENIED.   If Defendant Tiffany
Haddish wishes for the court to consider her motion to compel, she will need to
file an unredacted version.