 Case Number:  24CHCP00087    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 4/19/24
Case #24CHCP00087
 
PETITION FOR
RELIEF FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 945.4
 
Petition filed on 3/4/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner Kevin Michael Chao
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent County of Los Angeles
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting Petitioner Kevin Michael Chao relief from Government Code 945.4.

 
RULING: The petition is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This petition arises from an incident that occurred on
9/24/22 at Knollwood Country Club (Knollwood) located in Granada Hills,
California.  Petitioner Kevin Michael
Chao (Petitioner) claims Knollwood is owned, operated, managed, and/or
controlled by Respondent County of Los Angeles (Respondent).  Petitioner alleges that on 9/24/22, while
lawfully golfing at Knollwood, Petitioner was attacked by an unknown
third-party aggressor, resulting in Petitioner suffering a broken jaw.    
 
On 8/18/23, Petitioner presented an application to
present a late claim to Respondent regarding their alleged liability in causing
Petitioner’s injuries.  On 9/5/23,
Respondent denied Petitioner’s application to present a claim.  
 
On 10/17/23, Petitioner filed a lawsuit (LASC Case No.
23CHCV03132) against American Golf Corporation, who Petitioner believes
operated, managed, and/or controlled Knollwood, for negligence and premises
liability.
 
On 3/4/24, Petitioner filed the instant petition seeking
an order granting Petitioner Kevin Michael Chao relief from Government Code
945.4.  On 4/8/24, Respondent filed an
opposition to the petition and on 4/12/24, Petitioner filed a reply to the
opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Subject to various exceptions, Government Code 945.4
provides that no suit for money damages may be brought against a public entity,
such as Respondent, on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be
presented until a written claim therefor has been presented to the public
entity and has been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been
rejected by the board.
Also, subject to various exceptions, Government Code
911.2 requires a government claim based on causes of action for death and
personal injury to be presented to the public entity within six  months of the date the cause of action
accrued.  Government Code 911.2(a).   When a claim that is required by Government
Code 911.2 to be presented not later than six months after the accrual of the
cause of action is not presented within that time, a written application may be
made to the public entity for leave to present that claim.  See Government Code 911.4(a).  Such an application must be presented within
one year of accrual of the cause of action. 
Government Code 911.4(b).  Unless
extended by agreement, an application to present a late claim is deemed denied
if the entity fails or refuses to act within forty-five days.  Government Code 911.6(c).
 
Pursuant to Government Code 946.6, a court must relieve a
petitioner of the requirements of Government Code 945.4 if the petitioner establishes
that the application was timely presented and denied, or deemed denied, and
that either: (a) the failure to timely present the claim was through mistake,
inadvertence or excusable neglect; or (b) the petitioner was a minor during all
of the time specified in Government Code 911.2 for presentation of the claim.  Government Code 946.6(c).   
 
A petition for relief under Government Code 946.6, such
as the instant petition, must show: (a) the application was made to the board
under Government Code 911.4; (b) the reason for failure to present the claim
within the time limit in Government Code 911.2; and (c) the information
required by Government Code 910.  See
Government Code 946.6(b).  Additionally,
such a petition must be made within six months after the application is denied
or deemed denied.  Id.
 
While Petitioner generally claims that he is entitled to
relief from Government Code 945.4 due to surprise, inadvertence or excusable
neglect, the petition only specifically addresses Petitioner’s claim of
excusable neglect.  (See Petition,
p.6:10-11 and Petition, generally).
 
“Excusable neglect” is defined as neglect which might
have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances.  Ebersol (1983) 35
C3d 427, 435.  The facts in Ebersol,
supra, relied on by Petitioner to support his claim that his conduct
constitutes excusable neglect, are distinguishable from the facts here.  
 
In Ebersol, at the time of the incident, the
plaintiff was unaware that the county operated the training program the
individual who bit her was participating in. 
Id. at 432-434.  Here, despite
Petitioner’s claim that he “was completely unaware of Los Angeles County being
liable for [his] injuries,” Petitioner admits that he contacted Respondent
relatively soon after the incident to notify them of his injuries from the
incident and received a response on 10/13/22. 
(See Chao Decl. ¶¶4-5). 
Such contact implies that Petitioner had some awareness of Respondent’s
possible liability for his injuries. 
Petitioner offers no other explanation as to why he contacted Respondent
to notify them of his injuries from the incident.  
 
Additionally, in Ebersol, the plaintiff contacted
an attorney, who informed her that she did not have a case, on the same day the
incident occurred.  See Ebersol,
supra at 433.  The plaintiff in Ebersol
contacted another attorney, who also told her she did not have a case, within a
month of the incident.  Id.  During the next three months, Ebersol
contacted seven more attorneys in an attempt to secure legal
representation.  Id.  Here, Petitioner’s vague declaration seems to
indicate that he did not begin contacting attorneys until early March 2023,
some five months after the incident, which would only be days or weeks before
the claims presentation period expired on 3/24/23.  (See Chao Decl. ¶¶6, 11).  Also, Petitioner never states that any of the
attorneys he contacted told him he did not have a case, just that they declined
to take his case or never responded to his inquiries.  (Chao Decl. ¶¶7, 9, 10, 11).
 
Further, Petitioner’s claims regarding his interactions
with the Farzam Law Firm do not make sense. 
Petitioner claims that he contacted the firm in late March 2023 or early
April 2023 and the firm orally declined to represent him.  (Chao Decl. ¶9).  Petitioner then goes on to state that some
seven months later, on 12/1/23, he received a non-engagement letter for the
Farzam Law Firm “officially declining” to represent him.  (Chao Decl. ¶10, Ex.C).  Despite the fact that the opposition argues
that “[t]he date of the non-engagement letter calls into question the
credibility of Petitioner,” the reply fails to address this issue.  (See Opposition, p.5:12-18; Reply,
generally).
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Petitioner
failed to act as a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances and his conduct does not constitute excusable neglect.  
 
Even if Petitioner’s conduct could be deemed to be
excusable neglect, Respondent has been prejudiced by allowing Petitioner to
file an action against it at this time, approximately one year and seven months
after the incident.  Respondent has
lost  the ability to conduct an early
investigation of the claim and consider early settlement.  As such, denial of the petition on such
ground would be warranted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The petition is denied. 
   
 
 