 Case Number:  22STCV25435    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Stockpile Property Ventures LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV25435




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
NTB Acquisitions LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 28, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Starcrest Escrow, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Stockpile Property Ventures
LLC
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF
NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS
THEREAFTER.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 21, 2023, Plaintiff Stockpile
Property Ventures LLC filed the operative first amended complaint against
Defendants NTB Acquisitions LLC, Tamar Hamparsonian, Sako Hamparsonian and Starcrest
Escrow, Inc., asserting causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, negligence, and money had and
received.  Plaintiff alleges it had a
contract with the NTB Defendants to sell certain real property to Defendants.
NTB deposited $35,000 into escrow with Defendant Starcrest but failed to close
escrow. Plaintiff alleges that NTB breached the contract by failing to close
escrow, and Plaintiff is entitled to the $35,000 deposit as liquidated damages.
Starcrest has refused to give release the deposit to Plaintiff.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant Starcrest demurs to the
third, fourth and fifth causes of action for breach of contract, negligence and
money had and received on the ground that they do not allege sufficient facts. 
 
The Court previously sustained
Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint, in which Plaintiff alleged Defendant breached
the escrow contract by refusing to release Plaintiff’s deposit to Plaintiff on
demand. The terms of the contract showed there was no breach by Defendant. In
the FAC, Plaintiff now alleges Defendant breached the escrow contract by
failing to promptly give written notice to the NTB Defendants of Plaintiff’s
demand for the return of the deposit.
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiff cannot
maintain any causes of action based on an alleged failure to notify the NTB
Defendants because, per attachments to the FAC, the NTB Defendants had notice
of the demand on the same day Plaintiff made it. Defendant emphasizes that the
NTB Defendants objected to the demand immediately after Plaintiff made it. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that whether the NTB Defendants had actual notice
of the demand is irrelevant to whether Defendant served formal written notice
of the demand. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to allege
sufficient facts against Defendant. The documents show the NTB Defendants had
actual knowledge of Plaintiff’s demand, as evidenced by their objection. Though
Defendant may have been obligated to provide formal notice of the demand,
Plaintiff cannot allege any damages that resulted from Defendant’s failure to
do so. The claims for breach of contract, negligence, and money had and
received fail as pleaded.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.


 