 Case Number:  22STLC05413    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  52 (1)
Cross-Complainant Tywon White’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records Against Sunlight Financial, LLC; (2)
Non-Party Sunlight Financial, LLC’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records
Cross-complainant
Tywon White moves to compel non-party Sunlight Financial, LLC (Sunlight) to
comply with category Nos. 1-4 and 8 of White’s deposition subpoena for
production of business records.  
Sunlight
moves to quash White’s deposition subpoena.
White’s
motion to compel compliance with the subpoena is untimely.  A motion to compel production of documents demanded
in a deposition subpoena “shall
be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition.”  (CCP § 2025.480(b).)  “The record of” a deposition pursuant to a
business records subpoena “is the documentary record memorializing the nonparty’s
response to the subpoena.”  (Board of
Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
1011, 1032 (Board of Registered Nursing).)  “The nonparty’s compliance with the subpoena
is clear on the date specified for production.  It has either produced documents as requested
in the subpoena, or not.  On that date,
the subpoenaing party has all of the information it needs to meet and confer
regarding the nonparty’s compliance and, if unsatisfied, prepare a motion to
compel.”  (Id. at p. 1033.)
White’s deposition subpoena
demanded production of business records on October 2, 2023, at 11:00 a.m.  (Valdez Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 1.)  Sunlight served objections on September
25.  (Id., Ex. 2.)  The record was therefore completed either on
September 25 or, at the latest, October 2. 
White’s 60-day period to compel compliance ended no later than December
1.  White served and filed this motion 10
days later, on December 11.  The court
therefore cannot grant this motion.  
White argues the 60-day period
began on October 10 because Sunlight produced documents that day.  (Reply, p. 2.)  White relies on the following authority: “Not
all document productions are completed on the date stated in the subpoena.  If the subpoenaing party opts to inspect and
copy the original documents at the office of the responding business, ‘the
record’ of the production could take days to complete.  This may occur in part because the subpoenaing
party’s access to the documents is limited by statute to either the business’s
normal hours—the time when the business is normally open to the public—or six
hours a day, whichever is greater. 
[Citations.]  Until the entire
inspection is finished, including the raising of any objections during that
process, the necessity and scope of a motion to compel may not be known.  Consequently, if on the first day of an
inspection, a party is escorted to a warehouse full of documents, the party can
rest assured that the 60–day period will not begin to run until the production
is over.”  (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v.
Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 134 (Unzipped).)  
Twice, the Court of Appeal has rejected
the argument White makes now.  In Rutledge
v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192, the court stated:
“Appelants cite Unzipped … in arguing that because Bizcom agreed to
produce documents in the deposition, they ‘can rest assured that the 60-day
period [during which it must bring a motion to compel] does not begin to run
until the production is over.’ ” 
Although the deponent later produced some documents, the court concluded,
“If appellants were not satisfied with Bizcom’s production of documents from
its initial request, the time to file a motion to compel was within 60 days of
August 27, 2004, the date on which Bizcom served its objections to the 2004
subpoena.”  (Ibid.)  
The Court of Appeal reached the
same result in Board of Registered Nursing.  The court rejected the argument that the
60-day period began later because the deponents “eventually produced some
documents in response to the subpoena.” 
(Board of Registered Nursing, 59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1034.)  The court reasoned, “A nonparty must comply
(or not) with the subpoena on the date specified for production.  If a party is not satisfied with the nonparty’s
compliance, the party has 60 days in which to meet and confer with the
nonparty.  These meet and confer efforts
do not affect the mandatory 60-day deadline.  The meet and confer process is part of the
60-day period in which to file a motion; it does not extend it.  If the party is still unsatisfied with the
nonparty’s compliance with any portion of the subpoena at the end of this
period (because, for example, the nonparty still has not produced the requested
documents), the party may file a motion to compel.”  (Id. at pp. 1034-1035.) 
The correspondence between White
and Sunlight (Valdez Decl., ¶¶ 11-14, Exs. 4-7) included some documents in
response to the subpoena.  That
correspondence constituted the meet and confer process.  It did not extend White’s deadline to file
this motion.  
Disposition
            Cross-complainant Tywon
White’s motion to compel non-party Sunlight Financial, LLC to comply with deposition
subpoena is denied.  Sunlight
Financial, LLC’s motion to quash deposition subpoena is therefore moot.
 