  Case Number:  21STCV34102    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Perry Lazar’s Motion to Compel
Cross-Defendant Michelle Pascual to Provide Responses to Form Interrogatories
Plaintiff Perry Lazar moves for an order compelling cross-defendant
Michelle Pascual to respond to form interrogatories and for $3,661.65 in
sanctions against Pascual and her counsel. 

When the responding party
fails to timely respond to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling responses.  (CCP §
2030.290(b).)  Failing to timely respond
waives any objections.  (CCP §
2030.290(a).)
Pascual concedes her responses to plaintiff’s form
interrogatories were untimely.  She
served responses after Lazar filed this motion. 
(Lauber Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. 1-2.) 
The only remaining issue is whether the court should impose monetary
sanctions against Pascual or her counsel.
The court exercises its discretion not to impose
sanctions.  Pascual’s counsel presents
evidence he did not receive the interrogatories when Lazar served them.  (Lauber Decl., ¶¶ 5-10.)  Lazar disputes that evidence.  
Though meeting and conferring is not required before moving
to compel responses (compare CCP § 2030.290 with § 2030.300(b)(1)), doing so may
have avoided this motion.  This court’s
guidelines for civility in litigation state, “Before filing a motion, counsel
should engage in more than a mere pro forma discussion of its purpose in an
effort to resolve the issue.”  (Local
Rules, appendix 3.A(h)(1).)  
On January 16, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to
Pascual’s counsel stating, “This is an attempt to meet and confer regarding
cross-defendant Michelle Pascual’s responses to form interrogatories.”  (Lauber Decl., Ex. 4.)  The email only discusses the substance of Pascual’s
responses to No. 17.1.  It does not
mention the other form interrogatories, which are the subject of this
motion.   
Pascual presents evidence her counsel did not receive the
interrogatories when served.  Plaintiff
did not meet and confer regarding these interrogatories or otherwise warn
Pascual that he intended to file this motion. 
The court therefore finds Pascual acted with substantial justification
and sanctions would not be just under the circumstances.
Plaintiff Perry Lazar’s motion to compel cross-defendant
Michelle Pascual to respond to form interrogatories is denied.  