 Case Number:  23TRCV03285    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 12, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03285
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Mark Becker; Jennifer Becker v. Pier
Escrow, Inc., et al. 
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Specially Appearing Defendants, Blue Ridge Bank and
Blue Ridge Bankshares, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Mark Becker and Jennifer Becker
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Specially Appearing Defendants’, Blue Ridge Bank and Blue
Ridge Bankshares, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED. 
 
                                                 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs, Mark
Becker and Jennifer Becker )collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants, Pier Escrow, Inc., Blue Ridge Bank, aka Blue Ridge Bank
National Association, aka Blue Ridge Bank and Trust, an unknown Virginia
Business Entity, Blue Ridge Bankshares, Inc., and DOES 1 through 50. On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligence; (3) Professional
Negligence; (4) Breach of Implied Contract; (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and
(6) Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq. 
 
            The FAC is based on the allegations
that Plaintiff contends in April 2023, criminals used a bank account at Blue
Ridge Bank to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars from Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs
note that the year prior, in August 2022, Blue Ridge Bank had been cited by the
Department of the Treasury, specifically, the Office of the Controller of the
Currency (“OCC”), for its alleged lack of oversight of new accounts that had
allowed criminals to use accounts for criminal activities. As a result of the
OCC’s investigation, Plaintiffs contend that Blue Ridge Bank entered into a
written agreement whereby Blue Ridge Bank specifically agreed to implement
policies and procedures meant to prevent criminals from using its bank accounts
for their illicit activities of the type that ensnared Plaintiffs. Nonetheless,
Plaintiff contend that Blue Ridge Bank did not comply with the OCC’s agreement,
and as a result, in January 2024, the OCC issued a cease-and-desist Consent Order
finding that Blue Ridge Bank had failed to implement the policies and procedure
required by the August 2022 agreement. 
 
Specially
Appearing Defendants, Blue Ridge Bank and Blue Ridge Bankshares, Inc.
(collectively, “Blue Ridge”) now move to quash Plaintiffs’ Complaint for Lack
of Personal Jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 415.10.
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
January 16, 2024, Specially Appearing Defendants, Blue Ridge, filed a Motion to
Quash Complaint for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction. On February 28, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On March 5, 2024, Blue Ridge filed a reply
brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
A defendant can file a motion to quash on
the grounds the court lacks jurisdiction over him or her. (Code Civ. Proc. §
418.10(a)(1).) “A party cannot be properly joined unless served with the
summons and complaint; notice does not substitute for proper service. Until
statutory requirements are satisfied, the court lacks jurisdiction over a
defendant.” (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
“When a defendant challenges the court's personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413, citing Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1426, 1439–1440.)
 
When a defendant moves to quash service of
the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts
that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective
service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) The
plaintiff must establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the
evidence. (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
“When a nonresident defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that
all necessary jurisdictional criteria are met. [Citation.] This burden must be
met by competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary evidence.
An unverified complaint may not be considered as an affidavit supplying
necessary facts.” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054-55.) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
General Principles of Personal
Jurisdiction in California 
 
            California’s
long-arm statute authorizes its “courts to exercise jurisdiction over a foreign
corporation to the fullest extent consistent with due process.” (Sanders v.
CEG Corp (1979) Cal.App.3d 779, 783; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.)
As such, California exercises personal jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant who “has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion or
jurisdiction does not violate ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.’” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 434, 444.) A defendant’s “minimum contacts” with California must
reasonably justify haling it into a California court to conduct a defense. (Pavlovich
v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268.) Typically, Court apply the
minimum contacts test on a case-by-case basis, focusing on the nature and
quality of the defendant’s activities in the state or with state residents. (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 474-475.) 
 
Moreover, personal jurisdiction may be
either general or specific. If the defendant’s contacts are substantial,
continuous, and systematic, the defendant may be subject to California’s
general jurisdiction. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445.) However, if
general jurisdiction cannot be established, a nonresident defendant may still
be subject to California’s specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met.
(Id. at 446.) “First, the defendant must have purposefully availed
itself of the state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must be related to or
arise out of the defendant’s contacts with the state. Third, considering the
defendant’s contacts with the state and other factors, California’s exercise of
jurisdiction over the defendant must comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1558, 1568.) 
 
General Jurisdiction
 
            Here,
Blue Ridge Defendants argue that this Court does not have general jurisdiction
over them because they were only a passive recipient of a contact with
California unilaterally made by Plaintiff, Mark Becker, with Blue Ridge when he
wired funds to Blue Ridge in Virgina. Blue Ridge further notes that only a
small minority of Blue Ridge’s business is with California customers, none of
whom are in any way involved or implicated in the transaction at issue in the
instant case. 
 
            When
it comes to general jurisdiction, the claims at issue need not be per se
connected with the defendant’s business relationship to the forum, but instead,
that defendant is subject to jurisdiction in California courts for all causes
of action raised against it. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445-46 (holding
“[s]uch a defendant’s contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they
take the place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for
jurisdiction”).) General jurisdiction is only proper where the defendant’s
contacts with the forum are continuous and systematic, meaning they include
activities such as maintaining an office and employees in the forum, use of
forum bank accounts, and the marketing or selling of products in the forum
state. (Helicopteros Nacionales de Columbia v. Hall (1984) 466 U.S. 408.)

 
            Here,
Blue Ridge Bankshares, Inc. is a bank holding company headquartered in
Charlottesville, Virginia. (Declaration of William Callaghan (“Callaghan
Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Specially Appearing Defendants further note that Blue Ridge
Bankshares, Inc. is a parent company of Blue Ridge Bank, N.A., a
client-centered financial services company offering commercial banking services
throughout Virginia and North Carolina. (Callaghan Decl., ¶ 4.) Blue Ridge
Defendants note that the bank offers mortgage services across the Mid-Atlantic
and Southeast, and does not have offices or operations in California.
(Callaghan Decl., ¶ 4.) Next, it is noted that the executive and other offices
of Blue Ridge are in Luray, Charlottesville and Richmond, Virginia. (Callaghan
Decl., ¶ 5.) Blue Ridge Bank has branches in Greensboro, North
Carolina, and Richmond, Callao, Charlottesville, Chester, Colonial Heights,
Culpeper, Fredericksburg, Gordonsville, Harrisonburg, Hartfield, Kilmarnock,
Louisa, Luray, Martinsville, Mineral, Montross, Orange, Petersburg, North
Chesterfield, Shenandoah, Suffolk, Virginia Beach, Warsaw and White Stone,
Virginia. Blue Ridge has Commercial Loan Production Offices in Charlotte and
Durham, North Carolina and Norfolk, Virginia Beach and Winchester, Virginia. (Callaghan Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
            Next,
Blue Ridge Defendants note that Blue Ridge has five hundred thirty-six
employees, and only two of them work remotely in California as a personal
accommodation to them, and not for any business purpose. (Callaghan Decl., ¶
6.) In fact, Blue Ridge notes that those two remote employees in California are
not public facing, do not solicit or do business on behalf of Blue Ridge in
California, nor do they have any involvement in the wire transfer described in
the FAC. (Callaghan Decl., ¶ 6.) Furthermore, Blue Ridge contends that only
0.16% of its customers (or 88 customers) have physical addresses in California.
Blue Ridge also notes that it does processing of wire transfers for its FinTech
partners, and that its records show the FinTech partners have 95,306 open
accounts showing California addresses. Blue Ridge contends that this only
represents 7.75% of the open FinTech accounts. (Callaghan Decl., ¶ 7.) Blue
Ridge clarifies it has no offices in California, does not lease real property
or other assets in California, and is not qualified to do business in the state
of California (Callaghan Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9.) Blue Ridge Defendants note that when
it comes to wire transfers, all wire transfers are handled through its offices
in Luray, Virginia. (Callaghan Decl., ¶ 10.) 
While the Court acknowledges that 7.75% of accounts in more than a de
minimus number, there is no evidence showing that Blue Ridge selects the
accounts or the customers of its FinTech partners.  
 
            The
Court’s tentative ruling is to find that there is no general jurisdiction
between Blue Ridge Defendants and the State of California because their contacts
with this state are not so continuous or systematic as to essentially find them
“at home” in the State of California. 
 
Specific Jurisdiction 
 
            Next,
as this Court noted above, if general jurisdiction cannot be established, a
nonresident defendant may still be subject to California’s specific
jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. (Id. at 446.) “First, the
defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the state’s benefits.
Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s
contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the
state and other factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the
defendant must comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Gilmore
Bank, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 1568.) 
 
Whether
Blue Ridge has Purposefully Availed itself to Jurisdiction in California 
 
            For purposes of the purposeful
availment prong, the “…United States Supreme Court has described the forum
contacts necessary to establish specific jurisdiction as involving variously a
nonresident who has ‘purposefully directed’ his or her activities at forum
residents, or who has ‘purposefully derived benefit’ from forum activities, or “purposefully
avail[ed himself or herself] of the privilege of conducting activities within
the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and protections or its laws,” or “
‘deliberately’ has engaged in significant activities with a State or has
created “continuing obligations” between himself and residents of the forum.” (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at 446.)
 
            In Plaintiffs’ opposition here, they argue that this
Court should be applying the “effects” test. The effects test was established
by the United States Supreme Court in Calder v. Jones (1984) 465 U.S.
783. In Calder, Shirley Jones, “an entertainer whose television career
was centered in California” sued a reporter and editor for libel in California
in connection with a National Enquirer article. (Calder, supra, 465 U.S.
at 785-86.) The Florida defendants moved to quash service of process for lack
of personal jurisdiction. (Id. at 784-85.) The Supreme Court in Calder
found California was “the focal point both of the story and of the harm
suffered” and consequently held that jurisdiction over the Florida resident was
proper “based on the ‘effects’ of their Florida conduct in California. (Id.
at 789.)  The “purposeful availment”
requirement ensures that a defendant will not be required to defend a lawsuit solely
as a result of “random,” “fortuitous,” or “attenuated” contacts (Keeton v.
Hustler Magazine, Inc. (1984) 465 U.S. 770, 774, or of the “unilateral
activity of another party or a third person.” (Helicopteros Nacionales de
Colombia, S.A. v. Hall (1984) 466 U.S. 408, 417.)  
As
the Reply correctly recognizes, both Calder and Keeton v Hustler
Magazine, Inc. (1984) 465 U.S. 770 apply the effects test in the contest of
defamation suits where the defendant purposely directed distribution of their magazines
to the forum state with the intention of generating revenue from readership
within the forum state, making it reasonable to defend litigation in the forum
state because of the defendant’s forum-directed activity.  There is no evidence before this Court of
anything analogous by Blue Ridge that would give the Court a constitutional
basis for requiring a Virginia-based financial institution to defend a lawsuit in
California. Calder and Keeton thus appear to be factually distinguishable.  Rather, the exercise of jurisdiction over Blue
Ridge here seems more akin to the unilateral activity of the hacker as noted in
Helicopteros.  
            Further, the California Supreme Court in Pavlovich v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, applied the effects test. In Pavlovich,
a trade secrets misappropriation case, the California Supreme Court held that
the “…Calder effects test requires intentional conduct expressly aimed
at or targeting the forum state in addition to the defendant’s knowledge that
his intentional conduct cause harm in the forum.” (Pavlovich, supra, 29
Cal.4th at 271.)  Pavlovitch recognized
that many courts ahe struggled with the potentially expansive ambit of the
effects test, with most courts agreeing that “merely asserting that a defendant
knew or should have known that his intentional acts would cause harm in the
forum state is not enough to establish jurisdiction under the effects test.”  (Id. at pp. 270–271.)  
Here,
Plaintiffs note that the OCC has cited Blue Ridge Bank for its lack of policies
and procedures, including those relating to third-party risk management, Bank Secrecy
Act/Anti Money Laundering risk management, suspicious activity reporting, and
information technology and risk governance. Plaintiffs also assert that the OCC
sent an August 2022 cease and desist order to Blue Ridge Defendants, warning
that they should be monitoring their FinTech accounts. Despite this, Plaintiffs
contend that Blue Ridge Defendants failed to do so, and thus, engaged in harmful
conduct.  Mr. Carter’s Declaration in
Opposition attaches the OCC order and agreement with Blue Ridge, but neither of
those documents indicate any finding or discussion of Blue Ridge’s business
dealings with entities in California or the effects of the correctable business
practices on California borrowers or other persons.  While the OCC documents may provide a basis
for a claim of negligence by Blue Ridge, assuming that the Court could take
judicial notice of these documents upon a proper Request for Judicial Notice, they
do not appear to evidence a basis for the Court to exercise jurisdiction in
California.  
            In Callaghan’s declaration submitted in support of the MTQ,
he notes that “Blue Ridge clears transactions in bulk for the FinTech accounts
and does not create or maintain the individual transaction records for those
accounts.” Plaintiffs argue that a review of the OCC’s cease and desist order
and its August 2022 agreement with Blue Ridge suggest that Blue Ridge is being
obliged to be monitoring its FinTech accounts. The potential jurisdictional argument
is that the alleged failure to manage said accounts per the guidelines of the
OCC may tend in reason to show that Defendant may have failed to enact or implement
policies and procedures regarding FinTech accounts with the knowledge that such
conduct may cause harm to FinTech accounts in California.  This is too slender a reed on which to
balance the exercise of personal jurisdiction. It is not the intentional or deliberate
misconduct that justified the exercise of jurisdiction over actress Shirley
Jones’ libel case in the state where the defendant had its largest readership,
such that it was reasonable to exercise jurisdiction over the publisher in California.

 
            
            Reasonableness of Exercising
Jurisdiction
 
            Assuming, arguendo,
that the effects of Blue Ridges’ contact with the forum state could meet
the Calder v Jones test, the Court must then determine whether the
exercise of jurisdiction is reasonable. Plaintiffs’ opposition does not discuss
the reasonableness of such an exercise. However, Blue Ridge Defendants note
that it would be unreasonable for this Court to exercise personal jurisdiction
over defendants when the evidence shows Blue Ridge’s involvement originated
outside of California. More specifically, Blue Ridge Defendants note the wire
transfer initiated by Plaintiffs was received by Blue Ridge at its office in
Luray, Virginia, with instructions from Bank of America to credit the wired
funds to a FinTech account. Next, Blue Ridge Defendants note that Plaintiffs do
not have any account or other relationship of any kind with Blue Ridge, and
that one lone contact arising out of the transaction giving rise to this claim
was the wire transfer. Finally, Blue Ridge Defendants assert it would be
unreasonable to subject banks like Blue Ridge to a suit in forums in which it
has not purposefully availed itself. 
 
            The Court does not find the exercise
to be reasonable here.  Plaintiff’s claim
arising out of a third party’s hacking of a Blue Ridge or FinTech account, not
out of Defendant’s forum-connected conduct or omission.  Assuming the truth of Plaintiff’s allegations,
the lack of oversight and management, or absence of polices or procedures all
occurred in Virginia.  The alleged
hacking appears to have occurred into a server based in Virginia.   While this
would deprive Plaintiffs of their choice or forum, the jurisdictional analysis suggests
Plaintiffs should re-file in Virginia where jurisdiction over Blue Ridge appears
to be unquestionably reasonable and more constitutionally permissible.  
 
 