 Case Number:  23TRCV00381    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 5, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00381
(related to case no. 21IWUD02179)
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Juanita
Canche Pech v. Lucila Parra; et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, Antonio Trujillo 
                                                (2) Defendant, Lucila
Parra
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech
                                                (2) Plaintiff,
Juanita Canche Pech
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set in the civil action, but March 13, 2024
trial in the UD action consolidated with the civil action
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer¿ 
(2) Lucila Parra’s Demurrer
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer¿is SUSTAINED without leave to amend unless Plaintiff identifies
what specific amendments can be alleged to allow one last opportunity to cure the
pleading defects
(2) Lucila Parra’s Demurrer is also SUSTAINED with the same views
by the Court on leave to amend.
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 10, 2023, Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Lucila Parra, Antonio Trujillo, and DOES 1
through 20. On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Quiet Title; (2) Financial Elder
Abuse; (3) Fraud; (4) Violation of Penal Code § 496; and (5) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (6) Breach of Contract. 
 
Defendant,
Antonio Trujillo files a Demurrers to the SAC. Additionally, Defendant, Lucila
Parra’s also filed a Demurrer to the SAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On February 2, 2024,
Defendant, Antonio Trujillo filed his demurrer against the SAC. On February 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On February 26, 2024, Defendant Trujillo
filed a reply brief. Defendant Antonio Trujillo’s demurrer was originally set
for hearing on March 5, 2024. This Court continued the hearing so that Trujillo’s
demurrer could be heard with Defendant Parra’s demurrer on the same date. 
 
On February 16, 2024,
Defendant, Lucila Parra filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC. On March 4, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On March 4, 2024, Defendant Parra filed a reply
brief. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            With Antonio Trujillo’s demurrer, he requested this Court
take judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.      True
and correct copies of the first sets of Trujillo’s Requests for Admissions,
Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories served on the office of
Plaintiff’s counsel in this action. 
2.      2.
True and correct copies of Plaintiff’s verified responses to Trujillo’s first
sets of Requests for Admissions, Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories. 
3.      A
true and correct copy of an email string between counsel for Trujillo and
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the meet and confer process on Trujillo’s
proposed demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint. 
4.      A
true, correct and conformed copy of the Notice of Ruling filed by Trujillo
regarding the court’s ruling on Trujillo’s demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint.
5.      A
certified copy of the Grant Deed by which Plaintiff and Lucila Parra acquired
title the 111th Street Property as joint tenants, recorded in the official
records of Los Angeles County on October 15, 2010 as Instrument No.
20101473943.
6.      A
certified copy of the Grant Deed by which Plaintiff transferred her 50%
interest in the 111th Street Property to Lucila Parra, recorded in the official
records of Los Angeles County on November 12, 2025 as Instrument No.
20151379271.
 
The Court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
Further,
with Lucila Parra’s demurrer, she requested this Court take judicial notice of
the following documents: 
 
1.      Exhibit
1: Grant Deed recorded on October 14, 2016 
2.      Exhibit
2: Deed of Trust recorded on October 14, 2016 (Broker Solutions DOT) 
3.      Exhibit
3: Deed of Trust recorded on December 13, 2022 (Skyline DOT) 
4.      Exhibit
4: Full reconveyance of Broker Solutions DOT, recorded on December 16, 2022
5.      Exhibit
5: Minute Order in this case, dated November 15, 2023
 
The Court also GRANTS this request
and takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
B. Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer  
 
Defendant Trujillo demurs to the SAC on the grounds that he
argues each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action and are uncertain. In this Court’s previous tentative ruling,
it indicated that the demurrer was sustained in part and overruled in part. The
Court will allow oral argument as to the issues and analysis noted in its
previous, March 5, 2024 hearing. 
            C. Defendant Lucila Parra’s Demurrer 
            Here, Defendant Parra demurs to Plaintiff’s First, Third,
Fourth, and Fifth causes of action on the grounds she contends they fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain. 
Quiet Title 
Here,
Defendant Para argues that this Court, in its previous November 15, 2023 ruling,
the Court ruled that Trujillo was a Bona Fide Purchaser, and that Plaintiff’s
attempted curing of the deficiencies of the FAC are barred by the sham pleading
doctrine. As noted above, the Court does not agree with the argument that
Plaintiff’s SAC is a sham pleading. As such, the Court does not sustain
demurrer for this reason. However, also noted above, it does not appear
Plaintiff’s attempt at curing the deficiencies was successful. 
 
In
its November 15, 2023 ruling, this Court noted that it agreed with Defendant’s
prior argument that the FAC failed to allege sufficient facts to establish that
the quitclaim deed was voidable based on fraud because the FAC made no mention
of whether Plaintiff asked what the document to be signed was, nor what its
effect was. The same is true as to the SAC. The SAC notes, as did the FAC, that
the Quitclaim deed was written in English, and that Plaintiff was not
sufficiently literate in English, (SAC, ¶ 9.) Although the allegation notes
that Plaintiff had asked her daughter what the document was and why the delay
occurred prior to seeing the document (SAC, ¶ 9), once Plaintiff and her
daughter were at the escrow office, there is no mention of Plaintiff asking her
daughter or anyone else whet the document was, or whether she could have an
English translation. (SAC, ¶ 9.) The allegation merely states that “[n]either
Lucila nor Ms. Mason explained to Juanita the identity of the document she
signed. (SAC, ¶ 9.) This is insufficient for the same reasoning it was in the
FAC. Further, as raised at the March 5 hearing, a notary public is generally notarizing
not just a signature but also ascertaining that the signing party can attest to
the notary a recognition of what is being signed.  There is no allegation in the SAC that anyone
raised a question with the notary about an English translation or that
Plaintiff did or did not have the document translated.  
 
As
such, the cause of action for Quiet Title as against Defendant Para is
SUSTAINED. As this is Plaintiff’s third bite at the apple, the Court is not
inclined to grant leave to amend unless Plaintiff identifies how these pleading
deficiencies might be cured it given one final opportunity.  
 
Fraud 
            Next, Defendant Para argues that Plaintiff’s cause of
action for fraud fails for similar reasons as the quiet title cause of action. This
Court agrees. The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of
its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged
factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of
“liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
            Previously, in this Court’s November 15, 2023 order, it
noted that Plaintiff’s FAC lacked the requisite specificity to plead fraud, and
also failed to plead many of the required elements of fraud. Here, although the
SAC contains more of the requisite elements for a fraud cause of action, this
Court notes that the specificity requirement is lacking because of a failure to
plead that Plaintiff made an effort to understand the nature of the instrument
being signed. The SAC alleges that Defendant Parra intentionally misrepresented
and concealed the nature of the quitclaim deed she gave to her mother, and that
Plaintiff relied on her daughter when she signed the quitclaim deed. However,
the SAC is uncertain as to what misrepresentation occurred. Earlier allegations
in the SAC, which were realleged and incorporated into the fraud cause of
action indicate that the only representation Defendant Parra made to her
mother, Plaintiff, was that a document needed to be signed, and that she did
not know what document needed to be signed. (SAC, ¶ 9.) There are still no
facts that indicate whether, once in view of the document at the escrow office,
Plaintiff asked what the document was, or whether Defendant Parra made another
representation about the document when the mother and daughter were present at
the office. Without more, Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action is unable to remain
a cause of action against Defendant Parra. As such, the demurrer to this cause
of action is sustained. As noted above, the Court is not inclined to grant
leave to amend absent specific identification of what further could be alleged.

Violation
of Penal Code § 496
Defendant Parra argues that Plaintiff has not stated sufficient
facts to state a cause of action for violation of penal code § 496. Previously,
this Court held (in the November 15, 2023 order) that the FAC failed as to this
cause of action because of the sufficient fraud allegations. As noted above,
the same is true. Thus, because Plaintiff has failed to sufficient allege any
fraud allegation, this cause of action is also sustained. 
 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
            Lastly, Defendant Para contends that
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. “The elements of a prima facie case for the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and
ellipses omitted.)
            Previously, this Court sustained the demurrer to the FAC
on the grounds that it did not allege extreme or outrageous conduct as required
for the cause of action, but instead alleged the cause of action in a
conclusory way. The same is true here. As such, the demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
 
For the foregoing reasons, both
Defendant Trujillo’s and Defendant Parra’s demurrers are SUSTAINED, with the issue
of leave to amend being subject to detailed, specific identification of what
more the Plaintiff could allege to cure the pleading deficiencies.
¿¿¿ 
Defendants are ordered to
give notice.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
 