  Case Number:  22TRCV01604    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 12, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01604
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Julia
Misley v. Steven Victor Tallarico, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, Steven Victor Tallarico aka Steven
Tyler
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff,
Julia Misley, formerly known as Julia Holcomb
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           None set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) ¿ Special Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint

¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1)  GRANTED, at least as to the portions of the
IIED claim based upon the publication of the books/memoirs. ARGUE if after
striking those provisions, any of the IIED claim can remain.
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On December 27, 2022, Plaintiff, Julia Misley (formerly
known as Julia Holcomb) (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Doe
1, and DOES 2 through 50. On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant, Steven Victor Tallarico aka Steven Tyler,
and DOES 2 through 50. The FAC alleges causes of action for: (1) Sexual Battery
– Civil Code § 1708.5; (2) Sexual Assault; and (3) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”). 
 
The FAC is based on Plaintiff’ allegations that she is
a survivor of childhood sexual abuse, sexual battery, assault, and molestation
at the hands of Defendant, Steven Victor Tallarico aka Steven Tyler
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that when she was 16 years old, Defendant used
his role, status, and power as a well-known musician and rock star to gain
access to, groom, manipulate, exploit, and sexually assault Plaintiff over the
course of over three years in numerous states across the country, including California.

 
Defendant now files a Special Motion to Strike the
IIED cause of action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
 ¿ 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On April
28, 2023, Defendant filed the Anti-SLAPP Special Motion to Strike. On July 20,
2023, Defendant filed a Notice of Continuance. On October 9, 2023, the parties
filed a joint stipulation to continue this motion. On January 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On January 29, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. The case was then reassigned to Judge Reinert, and after a 170.6 affidavit
was field as to him, the case was reassigned to Inglewood just a few days
before the continued hearing was scheduled. 
This Court continued the hearing to enable it to have sufficient time to
read the parties’ briefs and issue a Tentative Ruling, which it has now
done.  
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
            A. Legal Standard

 
Attorney Defendants filed a special motion to strike
the Complaint against them in its entirety, consisting of the eight (8) causes
of action under CCP § 425.16, also known as the anti-SLAPP (“strategic lawsuit
against public participation”) statute. “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed
to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue
burden of frivolous litigation.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376,
393.) “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability
for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech. It only
provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising
from protected activity.” (Id. at 384.) 
 
“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two
steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises
from activity protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes the required
showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the
claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, 1 Cal.5th at
384 (citation omitted).) The California Supreme Court has “described this
second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court does not weigh
evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to
whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima
facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts
the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. ‘[C]laims
with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at 384-385
(citations omitted).) “In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is
met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ ” (City of
Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 79.)
 
B. Discussion 
 
Here, Defendant moves on this Anti-SLAPP, Special
Motion to Strike, on the grounds that he argues Plaintiff’s Third Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress based on Defendant’s
public statements includes claims that arise from protected activity and for
which she cannot demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the merits.  
 
Conduct in Furtherance of
Right of Petition or Free Speech
 
CCP § 425.16(e) states:  “As used in this section, ‘act in furtherance
of a person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: . . . (1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.”  “In the anti-SLAPP context,
the critical point is whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based
on an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free
speech.”  City of Cotati v. Cashman
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.  The
anti-SLAPP's statute focuses, not on the form of cross-complainant’s cause of
action but, rather, cross-defendants' underlying activity that gives rise to
the asserted liability and whether that activity constitutes protected speech
or petitioning.  (See Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 92.)
 
In Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, the court held that an anti-SLAPP motion may be utilized to strike
specific allegations of protected activity without eliminating the entire cause
of action or primary right.  “By
referring to a “cause of action against a person arising from any act of that
person in furtherance of” the protected rights of petition and speech, the
Legislature indicated that particular alleged acts giving rise to a claim for
relief may be the object of an anti-SLAPP motion. (§ 425.16(b)(1), italics
added.) Thus, in cases involving allegations of both protected and unprotected
activity, the plaintiff is required to establish a probability of prevailing on
any claim for relief based on allegations of protected activity.”  (Id. at 395.)
 
Here, the Court’s examination of
the allegations of the FAC reveals that the IIED cause of action arises at
least in part from protected speech that involves a matter of public
interest.  FAC ¶¶ 19-23, 42, and 44
allege that Tyler “made widespread publications,” including the “publishing of
memoirs and/or books” describing his [alleged] abuse of Plaintiff; that “as a
result of [these] writings,” Tyler imposed involuntary infamy on Plaintiff
resulting in her [alleged] deep emotional harm; that the “public dissemination”
of Plaintiff’s [alleged] assaults creates additional trauma; that the “memoirs
and statements” confirm the [alleged] crimes her perpetrated upon Plaintiff;
that Plaintiff saw a picture of herself on a tabloid that referred to her as
Tyler’s teen lover, leaving readers of the tabloid without any doubt of her
identify; that details of the fire and [alleged] coerced abortion “were now
published”; that Tyler “has intentionally publicized the acts he perpetrated” that
reached a crescendo “when his multiple books were published”; that he
“described his [alleged] assaults of Plaintiff in various media outlets
including, but not limited to his books, memoirs and other public statements.”  The FAC describes Tyler as a “world famous
rock star” who has achieved “special status and power in the media and world generally’
and that Plaintiff has become a “central figure” in a publicized “scandal.” [FAC
¶¶ 19, 21, 23, 44, 49.]  Hall v. Time
Warner, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1347 held that a
private person who may not have sought publicity became involved in an issue of
public interest for anti-SLAPP purposes when she became involved with a
celebrity (Marlon Brando) as to whose private life the public has a fascination.
See Nygard, Inc. v. Uusi-Kerttula (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th
1027, 1042 (extensive interest in Nygård—“a prominent businessman and celebrity
of Finnish extraction—among the Finnish public demonstrated the public interest
element for anti-SLAPP purposes.)  A
broad reading of the “public forum” requirement of the anti-SLAPP statute comports
with the fundamental purpose underlying the anti-SLAPP statute, i.e., to
protect against lawsuits that may chill the valid exercise of constitutional
rights such as the right of free speech. 
(Id. at p. 1038 (newspapers and magazines are public fora within the
meaning of section 425.16, subdivision (e)); Damon v. Ocean Hills Journalism
Club (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 468, 479 (homeowners’ association newsletter
constituted public forum.)  
 
Plaintiff’s allegations indicate
the IIED arose at least in part after publication of memoirs and/or books, and
that she discovered her identification in the memoirs in a newspaper
tabloid.  These publications all
constitute public forums for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.  Further, Plaintiff’s declaration in
opposition to the anti-SLAPP motion shows that Plaintiff herself concedes that
the publication of “Walk this Way” caused her severe emotional distress commencing
in 1997 (Misley Decl. ¶¶26, 27.)  In
2011, Plaintiff states that she sustained further emotional distress upon
seeing a photo of herself in the tabloid Star Magazine in connection with an
article about another upcoming memoir, which was published shortly thereafter
(id. ¶¶ 29, 30, 32.)  While the
Opposition purports to argue that the publications are merely evidence of the underlying
allegedly extreme and outrageous conduct, the allegations of the FAC and the Plaintiff’s
own declaration show differently because they allege and admit that the
publications themselves caused her severe emotional distress.  While the memoirs themselves do appear to
contain evidence of plaintiff’s other causes of action dating back to her
childhood -- causes of action that are not challenged by the instant motion --
that does not alter the character of the IIED cause of action for purposes of this
motion
 
Probability
of Prevailing on the Merits: Statute of Limitations 
 
“To establish a probability of
prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  For purposes of this inquiry,
the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not
weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence,
it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence
supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary
support for the claim.”  (Hawran v.
Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74.) 
However, the Court must accept as true the evidence favorable to
Plaintiff. (See Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th
260, 291.)
 
            “[Plaintiff’s] second-[prong] burden
is a limited one. [He] need not prove [his] case to the court [citation]; the
bar sits lower at a demonstration of ‘minimal merit’ [citation]. At this stage,
[t]he court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its
inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient
claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment. It accepts the plaintiff's evidence as true, and evaluates the
defendant's showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's claim as a
matter of law. The plaintiff must demonstrate this probability of success with
admissible evidence. The plaintiff may not rely solely on its complaint, even
if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible
evidence.” (Kieu Hoang v. Phong Minh Tran (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 513, 531
(internal citations and quotations omitted).)
 
            Since the Court has found that Defendants
have established the first prong, Plaintiff must establish a probability of
prevailing on the merits.  (See Hawran
v. Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74.)  Here, the motion assumes Plaintiff might be able
to prevail on the merits but for a complete defense revealed by the allegations
of the FAC: the bar of the statute of limitations.  The statute of limitations for an IIED cause
of action is two years, and runs starting at the time the plaintiff suffers the
severe emotional distress as a result of the outrageous conduct on the part of
the defendant. (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1; see also Cantu v. Resolution Trust
Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.) Here, Plaintiff contends in her FAC
that her IIED cause of action flows at least in part from the publication of
the books and/or memoirs that allegedly caused the involuntary infamy of
Plaintiff for Defendant’s profit. Such a claim falls outside of the statute of
limitations as the memoirs were alleged to have been respectively published in
1997 and 2011, and based on Plaintiff’s declaration the emotional distress caused
by the publication of the memoirs and the publication of her photograph in Star
Magazine occurred in those years. As such, to the extent the IIED claim
revolves around Plaintiff’s allegations that the publication of the memoirs
caused her emotional distress as claimed in the FAC, a lawsuit would have been
required to be filed by 2013 at the latest. 
 
            Although the Court is understanding
of the fact that the memoirs may have triggered the memory of alleged childhood
sexual abuse, the revival statute revives actions that were allegedly endured
by plaintiffs when the plaintiff was a minor.  While the claimed sexual abuse may have
occurred when Plaintiff was a minor in the 1970’s, the publication leading to the
claimed emotional distress occurred long afterwards, when Plaintiff was an
adult.  As such, the publications would
not be included in the revival statute because they did not occur within the
statutorily defined period. In 1973, Plaintiff notes that she was 16 years old.
(FAC, ¶ 10.) As such, Plaintiff was a legal adult in 1975, 22 years prior to
the publication of the first memoir. AB 218 as amended to Code of Civil
Procedure § 340.1, subsection (c) defines “Childhood sexual assault” to include
“any act committed against the plaintiff that occurred when the plaintiff was
under the age of 18 years…” The IIED claim, as it relates to the publication of
the memoirs, thus would not fall under this revival statute because the acts
allegedly giving rise to this emotional distress cause of action – the
publications and Plaintiff learning about them – occurred decades later when
she was an adult. 
 
            Because this special motion to
strike is based solely on the allegations involving the publications leading to
an action for IIED, the Court GRANTS this motion. The Court will entertain oral
argument as to whether part of the IIED cause of action should survive this anti-SLAPP
motion to the extent that it pertains to the emotional distresses allegedly
suffered by her for the two years from when she met Defendant to when she was
18 years old.  