 Case Number:  24SMCV02163    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



TIANYUE LI,  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ZHIBIN WANG, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 
  24SMCV02163
  Hearing Date:  January 21, 2025
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  DEFENDANTs’ demurrer to and 
  motion to strike complaint
 



 
BACKGROUND
This
case arises from a dispute between business partners.  Defendant Zhibin Wang, is the founder and
principal of Defendant Kings Way Catering Investment Group, Inc. (“KWC”), which
operates Matcha Village Cafe in China. 
(First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶ 10.) 
Plaintiff invested $100,000 in KWC, for a 10% ownership stake, pursuant
to a Purchase Agreement.  (FAC ¶
12.)  
Plaintiff
was also promised a substantive role within the Matcha enterprise.  Prior to the execution of the Purchase
Agreement, Wang assured Plaintiff of a general manager position at the upcoming
Matcha L.A. cafe (“Matcha LA”), complete with a salary reflective of her
contributions and stake.  (FAC ¶
13.)  As per the terms of an oral
agreement, Wang agreed to pay Plaintiff a salary of $5,000 per month together
with reimbursement of expenses.  Wang
later amended the agreement to $10,000 per month.  (FAC ¶20.) 

Plaintiff
claims Defendants never paid her the promised salary, despite her working 6-7
days a week, 8-10 hours a day.  (FAC ¶
32.)  Plaintiff further alleges Wang was
verbally abusive and placed unreasonable demands on her, including calling her
at midnight to complain and criticize her work efforts.  (FAC ¶¶ 39-40.)  Plaintiff also alleges Wang denied her
shareholder status and operational involvement in KWC.  (FAC ¶ 54.) 

The
FAC alleges claims for: (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, (3) negligent
misrepresentation, (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (5) breach
of fiduciary duty, (6) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (7) negligent interference with actual and prospective economic
advantage, (8) harassment in violation of fundamental public policy, (9)
wrongful constructive termination of employment, (10) wage and hour violations,
and (11) unfair business practices.
This
hearing is on Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike.  Defendants argue that (1) the contract claims
fail because the terms of the oral agreement are not clear, and the FAC lumps
both defendants together so it is unclear which Defendant entered into the
alleged contracts with Plaintiff; (2) the fraud and misrepresentation claims fail
because they are not plead with the required specificity and the purported
false statements all pertain to future promises that are not actionable; (3) the
IIED claim fails because Plaintiff does not plead any intent on Defendants’
part to cause her emotional distress; (4) the breach of fiduciary duty claim
fails because a fiduciary relationship cannot arise from a contractual
obligation; and (5) Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails because
Plaintiff has not adequately alleged malice, oppression or fraud.
LEGAL STANDARD
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not
consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not
accepted for the truth of their contents).) 
For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint
are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of
conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
967.)         
Further, the court may, upon motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is
a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency
(2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without
leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of
action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can
be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is
on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
MEET AND CONFER
Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires
that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party
“shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a),
435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and
confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).) 
Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)  Defendant submits the Declaration of Heidi M.
Cheng which attests the parties met and conferred by telephone on December 3,
2024, more than five days before Defendants filed their demurrer and motion to
strike on December 12, 2024.  This
satisfies the meet and confer requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §§430.41 and
435.5.)
DISCUSSION
Contract Claims
Defendants demur to the breach of contract and breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing claims on the ground Plaintiff has not
alleged the terms of the oral agreement. 
The Court disagrees.  
A
demurrer cannot be made to part of a claim. 
(Kong, 108 Cal. App. 4th
at 1047.) Defendants do not dispute that Plaintiff
has adequately alleged the terms of at least one of the agreements at issue in
her breach of contract claim – the written Purchase Agreement.  Thus, Defendants’ demurrer is made to only
part of a claim, which is improper.  
In
any event, Plaintiff does allege the terms of the oral agreement.  She was to be the general manager of Matcha
LA, with a salary of $5,000 per month plus expenses, which was later amended to
$10,000 per month.  (FAC ¶¶ 13, 20.)
Defendants
also demur to the contract claims on the ground that Plaintiff improperly lumps
Defendants together, and it is uncertain which Defendant entered into the
alleged agreements with Plaintiff.  The
Court disagrees.  
Demurrers for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) are disfavored. (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled when
the facts as to which the complaint is uncertain are presumptively within the
defendant’s knowledge. (5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Pleading, §
976, p. 389.)  Here, the FAC adequately
alleges that
the oral employment agreement was entered into between Defendants and
Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶¶ 57, 58.)  
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules
the demurrer to the breach of contract and breach of covenant of good faith and
fair dealing claims.
Misrepresentation Claims
           Defendants
demur to the misrepresentation claims because the purported misrepresentations
were future promises.  The Court agrees
as to the negligent misrepresentation claim but not as to the fraud claim.  
False promises may give rise to a claim for promissory
fraud.  The very nature of promissory
fraud is that it is a promise regarding a future event—e.g., a promise of
future performance with no intent to perform. 
A misrepresentation that constitutes promissory fraud is not a basis for
a demurrer on the ground that it involves a representation regarding a future
event.  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank Nat'l Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402-403.)
In contrast, promises about the future cannot
give rise to a negligent misrepresentation claim.  Negligent misrepresentation occurs when a
party makes representations of existing facts without a reasonable basis for
making such misrepresentations.  (West v. JP Morgan Chase Bank (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 792.)  A claim for
negligent misrepresentation cannot be supported by allegations of promissory
fraud.  “The specific intent
requirement... precludes pleading a false promise claim as a negligent misrepresentation....”
(Tarmann, 2
Cal.App.4th at 158.)
               Defendants
also argue that the fraud claim is not pleaded with the required specificity
because it lumps both Defendants together without identifying whether it was
Wang who made the statements individually or on behalf of KWC.  The Court agrees.  Where a fraud claim is asserted against
multiple defendants, the plaintiff must plead what conduct each defendant
committed, rather than lumping all defendants together through generalized
allegations as Plaintiff has done here. 
(Gil v. Bank of America, N.A. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1371, 1381.)  
Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the fraud and
negligent misrepresentation claims with leave to amend.
IIED
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s IIED claim is legally deficient because Plaintiff has not
alleged Defendants intended to cause Plaintiff emotional distress.  The Court disagrees.
Intent may be inferred from the
outrageousness of the conduct.  (Mahoney v. Corralejo (1974)
36 Cal. App. 3d 966, 974.) 
Plaintiff has alleged Defendants sexually harassed her and otherwise
created a hostile work environment.  It
cannot be seriously disputed that sexual harassment constitutes outrageous conduct.  Indeed, the demurrer does not argue that
Plaintiff failed to allege outrageous conduct. 
By its nature, harassment carries with it an intent to inflict distress.
Accordingly, the Court overrules the
demurrer to the IIED claim.   
Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s breach of fiduciary duty claim fails because a fiduciary
relationship cannot be created by contract. 
The Court disagrees in part.
Plaintiff alleges she was a minority
shareholder in KWC.  Wang was a majority
shareholder in KWC.  As a majority
shareholder, he owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff.  California law holds that a majority
shareholder owes fiduciary duties to a minority shareholder.  (Jones v. H.F. Ahmanson & Co. (1969) 1 Cal.3d 93, 108-110; Remillard Brick Co. v. Remillard-Dandini Co. (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 405, 419-421.) 
In
contrast, corporations do not owe fiduciary duties to their shareholders.  (Aslanian v. Frainier,
2018 Cal. Super. LEXIS 78994 at *13 (“As a
matter of corporate law, the directors
and officers of a corporation owe fiduciary duties to the corporation and to
its stockholders, but a corporation does not owe fiduciary duties to its
stockholders.”); see also Buttonwood Tree Value Partners, L.P. v. R.l Polk &
Co., 2014 Del. Ch. LEXIS 141 at *12 (“[A] corporation does not owe fiduciary duties to its
stockholders.”).)  As such, KWC does not
owe any fiduciary duties to Plaintiff as a KWC shareholder.  
Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer
to the breach of fiduciary duty claim against KWC but overrules the demurrer to
the claim against Wang.   
Punitive Damages
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails because Plaintiff has
not sufficiently alleged malice, oppression or fraud, and Plaintiff also seeks
punitive damages for negligence claims. 
The Court agrees in part.
Plaintiff
seeks punitive damages as part of her fraud claim.  (FAC ¶ 68.) 
Because the Court has sustained the demurrer to the fraud claim, the
motion to strike the request for punitive damages as part of that claim is
denied as moot.  
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages as part of
her breach of fiduciary duty claim.  (FAC ¶ 88.)  Punitive
damages are appropriate for breaches of fiduciary duty.  (Stokes v.
Henson (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 187, 197-198.)  Accordingly, the
Court denies the motion to strike the request for punitive damages as to this
claim.  
Plaintiff also seeks punitive damages in
connection with her breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing claim.  (FAC ¶ 95.)  But with the exception of bad faith insurance cases, a
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing permits a recovery solely
in contract.  (Cates Construction, Inc. v. Talbot Partners (1999) 21 Cal.4th 28, 43 “The covenant of good faith and fair dealing essentially
is a contract term that aims to effectuate the contractual intentions of the
parties, ‘compensation for its breach has almost always been limited to
contract rather than tort remedies.”).  Since
a party “may not recover in tort for … breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing,” an “award of punitive damages” is not permitted on
such a claim.  (Id. at 61.)  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to
strike the prayer for punitive damages as it relates to the breach of covenant
claim.
Additionally, Plaintiff seeks punitive
damages as part of her negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage.  As this is a negligence
claim, punitive damages are not available. 
“Mere negligence, even gross negligence is not sufficient to justify an
award of punitive damages.” (Ebaugh v. Rabkin (1972) 22
Cal.App.3d 891, 893.)
Finally,
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages as part of her unlawful harassment claim.  Punitive damages are available for sexual
harassment.  (Monge v. Superior Court
(1986) 176 Cal. App. 3d 503, 507 (punitive
damages recoverable for sex discrimination and harassment claims).)  Accordingly, the Court denies the motion to
strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages in connection with her
harassment claim.  
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS
IN PART and OVERRULES IN PART the demurrer with 20 days’ leave to
amend and DENIES IN PART and GRANTS IN PART the motion to strike,
without leave to amend as to the prayer for punitive damages in relation to the
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage claims.      
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 21, 2025                                                  ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court