 Case Number:  24SMCV00326    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



MATLYNN ROZELL GILES, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
7-ELEVEN,
  INC., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  24SMCV00326
 
  Hearing Date:  April 18, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  defendants’ motion to strike 
  portions of plaintiff’s complaint
 
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
This is a personal injury case.  Plaintiff Matlynn Rozell Giles alleges she
sustained severe burns to her body due to hot coffee she bought at a 7-Eleven
store.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶12.) 
The coffee spilled on her when the car she was riding came to a stop at
a red light.  (Id.)  She alleges that the coffee was “unreasonably
hot and heated well above industry standards.” 
(Id. ¶13.)  She also alleges the lids were not the
appropriate “quality and size” to properly ensure that the hot coffee would not
spill.  (Id. ¶21.) 
The original complaint alleged a single cause
of action for negligence against Defendants 7-Eleven Inc. (the franchisor), R.
Berg Enterprises Inc. (the franchisee) and Ralph Berg (the manager and owner)
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”).  The
Court granted a motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.  Plaintiff then filed a first amended
complaint, still alleging a single claim for negligence against the same
Defendants, but without any allegations relating to punitive damages. 
This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to file a second amended complaint. 
Plaintiff seeks leave to add a new defendant, Bunn-O-Matic, who it
claims manufactured the coffee maker used to prepare the coffee that spilled on
her, and on which the other Defendants claim they relied for the proper,
recommended “coffee holding temperature”. 
Plaintiff claims it did not know of Bunn-O-Matic until it was identified
by the other defendants in responses to interrogatories asking for facts supporting
their claim that they were not negligent, which responses were not provided
until October and November 2024. 
Plaintiff also seeks to add two new claims against all Defendants, for
strict product liability-failure to warn and negligent product liability.  There was no opposition filed as of the
posting of this tentative ruling.   
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of
Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1), provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” 
Under
California Rules of Court Rule, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to
amend a pleading shall: 
(1) include a copy of the proposed amendment
or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; 
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and 
(3) state what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.  
In
addition, under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision
(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify:  
(1) the effect of the amendment; 
(2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier. 
  
The
Court’s discretion to grant leave “should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Ordinarily, the Court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The Court,
however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment
fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot
be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled
on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000)
23 Cal.4th 390).)  
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff’s motion focuses on the amendment
to add Bun-O-Matic as a defendant, but it wholly fails to explain why the
additional claims against the other Defendants are only being added now.  There is no explanation why the two product
liability claims could not have been asserted in the original complaint.  
However,
delay alone will not justify denying leave to amend.  Although it is true “a court may deny a good
amendment in proper form where there is unwarranted delay in presenting it,” it
remains the case that “where there is no prejudice to the adverse party, it may
be an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend.” (Fair v. Bakhtiari (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 1135, 1147; see also Kittredge Sports
co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (“[Defendant]
contends [Plaintiff] unreasonably delayed moving to amend… [e]ven if this were
so, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing
party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”)); Atkinson v. Elk
Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 (“[I]t is an abuse of discretion to deny
leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the
amendment.”); Thompson Pacific
Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545 (“In spite of
this policy of liberality, a court may deny a good amendment in proper form
where there is unwarranted delay in presenting it. On the other hand, where
there is no prejudice to the adverse party, it may be an abuse of discretion to
deny leave to amend.”) (citations omitted). 

Prejudice
exists, for example, where the plaintiff unduly delayed in seeking leave to
amend, and the amendment will require a trial continuance and a reopening of
discovery on the eve of trial.  (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 488 (“Where the trial
date is set, the jury is about to be impaneled, counsel, the parties, the trial
court, and the witnesses have blocked the time, and the only way to avoid
prejudice to the opposing party is to continue the trial date to allow further
discovery, refusal of leave to amend cannot be an abuse of discretion”).)  Here, we are not at the eve of trial.  Trial is set for August 3, 2026,  and discovery has not yet closed.  
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend.  
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: January 21, 2025                                                   ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court