  Case Number:  19STCV39777    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROCIO MACIAS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GERONIMO
   RODRIGUEZ, M.D., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV39777
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR AN ORDER DEEMING REQUESTS FOR
   ADMISSION ADMITTED
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 19,
   2024



 
On December 22, 2023, defendants
Geronimo Rodriguez, M.D. and Medical Offices of Geronimo Rodriguez
(collectively, “Defendants”) filed this motion for an order deeming admitted
their Requests for Admissions, Set One, served on Plaintiff on March 29, 2022. 
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The
court shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
Plaintiff opposes the motion on the
grounds that meaningful verified responses will be served before the hearing.
This is insufficient to oppose a motion to deem admitted because the statute
requires the party to actually serve proposed responses before the hearing.
There is no evidence that responses have been served because Plaintiff only
promises to do so in the future. 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED and
the matters within Defendant’s Requests for Admission (Set One) are deemed
admitted and conclusively established against Plaintiff in this pending action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.410, subd. (a).) This order does not preclude the
possibility for Plaintiff to withdraw or amend this admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.300. 
Where a party fails to provide a timely
response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
However, Defendants state that they are not seeking sanctions; therefore, the
Court will not impose any. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 19th
day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 