 Case Number:  23AHCV01063    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



Elijah carder, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
T-MOBILE
   USA, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01063
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT KAN INVESTMENT LTD LLC’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO
   STRIKE; DEFENDANT T-MOBILE USA, INC.’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April
   19, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On May 10,
2023, plaintiff Elijah Carder (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant
KAN Investment LTD LLC (erroneously sued as “South Pasadena Heights Apartments”
and referred herein as “KAN Investment”) and T-Mobile USA, Inc. (“T-Mobile”).
On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
asserting causes of action for: (1) battery, (2) negligence, (3) nuisance, (4)
products liability, (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”),
(6) breach of lease, and (7) breach of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. 
          Plaintiff
alleges that he was a tenant at the premises located at 435 Garfield Avenue,
Unit 307, South Pasadena, CA 91030 (the “Property”). The Property was leased to
him by KAN Investment and T-Mobile “was the owner, installer, manufacturer,
designer, and operator of a collection antenna” which was placed “on the
outside wall of the [Property] at which [Plaintiff] was residing.” (Compl., ¶¶
3-4.) Plaintiff alleges he was exposed to excessive radiation emitted from this
antenna, which was place on a wall with KAN Investment’s knowledge and consent.
(Compl., ¶ 3.)  
          On
October 10, 2023, KAN Investment filed a demurrer and motion to strike arguing
that Plaintiff’s claims for battery, products liability, IIED, breach of lease,
and breach of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are too uncertain, vague, and
ambiguous. KAN Investment also moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages. 
          On December 20, 2023, T-Mobile filed a
demurrer and motion to strike. T-Mobile’s demurrer argues that Plaintiff’s
claims are preempted by federal law, Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute any cause of action, and the FAC is uncertain. Like KAN
Investment, T-Mobile also moves to strike Plaintiffs prayer for punitive
damages. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities
can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the
defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) Where
the complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend. (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.      T-MOBILE'S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO
STRIKE
A.         
Demurrer
1.          
Federal
Preemption 
T-Mobile demurs to the entire FAC on
the grounds that it is preempted by federal law. T-Mobile argues that “[a]ll of
Plaintiff’s state law claims are premised on alleged health effects from RF
[radiofrequency] levels that the [Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”)]
has already determined to be safe under its Congressionally delegated
authority.” (Demurrer, p. 16.) 
Here, Plaintiff claims that he was
exposed to “excessive radiation” emitted from the antenna, without specifying
whether those radiation levels allegedly exceed the FCC’s prescribed limits. If
Plaintiff is contending that the radiation emitted is “excessive” despite being
within the FCC’s limits, then Plaintiff’s claims are preempted. However, if
Plaintiff is contending that T-Mobile’s antenna does not comply with the FCC’s
regulations, then his claims are not preempted. Plaintiff states in his
opposition brief that he “opposes the Demurrer on the basis that the radiation
at issue does exceed the levels allowed by the FCC regulations.” However, this
essential allegation is not pleaded in the FAC, making the pleading uncertain
and subject to demurrer. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
2.          
Failure
to State a Claim
The Court also addresses T-Mobile’s
claim that Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to state any cause of
action and SUSTAINS T-Mobile’s demurrer to the First Cause of Action for
Battery, the Second Cause of Action for Negligence, the Fourth Cause of Action
for Products Liability, and the Fifth Cause of Action for IIED for failure to
state a claim. 
First, the Court agree with T-Mobile
that Plaintiff fails to allege the
element of intentional conduct required for his battery and IIED claim. A
plaintiff claiming a battery is required to show that the defendant touched the
plaintiff or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend
the plaintiff. (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669.) Similarly,
an IIED plaintiff must show that the defendant intended to cause emotional
distress or acted with reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress. (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1001.)
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that he was exposed to excessive amounts of radiation from an
antenna that T-Mobile installed. (Compl., ¶¶ 3-5.) Plaintiff does not allege
that T-Mobile intended to harm, offend, or inflict emotional distress upon him.
Also, with respect to Plaintiff’s IIED claim, Plaintiff does not allege what
conduct by T-Mobile was extreme or outrageous or that it was directed to him. (Ragland
v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 204 [“Outrageous
conduct is conduct that is intentional or reckless and so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of decency in a civilized community. The defendant’s conduct must be
directed to the plaintiff, but malicious or evil purpose is not essential to
liability.”]) Accordingly, the demurrer to the First and Fifth Causes of Action
is SUSTAINED. 
Next, T-Mobile argues that Plaintiff’s
Second Cause of Action for negligence fails to adequately plead the existence
of a legal duty. To plead a cause of action for negligence, one must allege (1)
a legal duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3)
causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) Here, Plaintiff fails to
allege that T-Mobile owed him a duty. Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS T-Mobile’s
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.
T-Mobil also demurs to Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action for products liability. “A manufacturer is strictly
liable in tort when an article he places on the market, knowing that it is to
be used without inspection for defects, proves to have a defect that causes
injury to a human being.” (Greenman v. Yuba Power Prods., Inc. (1963) 59
Cal.2d 57, 62.) Here, Plaintiff fails to allege that the collections antenna
was “placed in the stream of commerce.” Plaintiff also does not specify any
particular manufacturing or design defect, nor does he allege that T-Mobile
failed to provide adequate warnings or instructions. Thus, Plaintiff fails to
state a claim for products liability. 
The Court additionally notes that
Plaintiff stated in his opposition brief that he “agrees that [sic] fourth
cause of action for products liability is not a proper cause of action when its
directed at the landlord.” (Opp., p. 5.) Although T-Mobile is not Plaintiff’s
landlord, it does not appear that Plaintiff is opposing T-Mobile’s demurrer to
this cause of action. Therefore, the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
B.         
Motion
to Strike
The motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer
for punitive damages and his related allegations is MOOT because T-Mobile’s
demurrer to the entire FAC is sustained. 
IV.    KAN INVESTMENT’S
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
A.   Demurrer
As an initial
matter, Plaintiff concedes that the Fourth Cause of Action for products
liability cannot be directed against KAN Investment as a landlord. Accordingly,
KAN Investment’s demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend and the Court will only analyze KAN Investment’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s causes of action for battery, IIED, breach of lease, and breach of
implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. KAN Investment did not demur to the Second
and Third Causes of Action for Negligence and Nuisance. 
1.   Uncertainty
Like
T-Mobile, KAN Investment demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that it is
uncertain. The Court sustains the demurrer in its entirety for uncertainty for
the same grounds stated above and proceeds to discuss how Plaintiff fails to
state a cause of action for battery, IIED, and breach of lease against KAN
Investment. 
2.   Intentional
Torts (Battery and IIED)
Like
T-Mobile, KAN Investment argues that Plaintiff’s claims for battery and IIED
fail because he fails to allege intent. The Court incorporates its discussion
of T-Mobile’s demurrer to these two causes of action and SUSTAINS KAN
Investment’s demurrer to them for the same reasons.
3.    Breach of Lease and Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
KAN
Investment demurs to Plaintiff’s causes of action for breach of lease on the
grounds that Plaintiff does not identify the applicable provisions of the lease
which were allegedly violated or prohibit an antenna from being installed. Instead,
Plaintiff only broadly alleges that the installation of the antenna “was
performed in violation of the terms of said written lease.” (Comp., ¶ 40.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the applicable portion of the lease is
Paragraph 9, which requires a landlord to make repairs to a condition which
make the premises “untenantable” as defined in Civil Code section 1941.1. But section
1941.1 identifies a list of 9 characteristics, none of which apply to these
circumstances; also, there are no allegations that any repair was needed, requested,
or denied. Plaintiff also cites to an indemnification clause in Paragraph 12,
but again fails to explain what indemnification has to do with the case.
Therefore, the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.          
B.   Motion to
Strike
KAN
Investment moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages and
allegations in support of those damages in Paragraphs 9, 26, 36, 45, and 53 of
the FAC. Because the Court sustains KAN Investment’s demurrer in its entirety,
only paragraph 26 of the FAC and the prayer for punitive damages remains
pertinent to this motion to strike. 
Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) An employer shall not be liable for punitive damages based on
the acts of an employee, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which damages are awarded, or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) 

A motion to
strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) The allegations supporting
a request for punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory
allegations without sufficient facts are not enough. (Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)
Here,
Plaintiff fails to support his request for punitive damages with the requisite
specificity. There are no facts alleging that KAN Investment intended to cause
injury, engaged in despicable conduct or acted with conscious disregard for
Plaintiff’s safety. Also, Plaintiff does not identify the officer, director, or
managing agent as required to vicariously impose punitive damages on a
corporate entity. 
Therefore,
the motion to strike is GRANTED. 
V.     CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court rules
as follows: 
·       KAN Investment’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days’ leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s First, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh
Causes of Action for Battery, IIED, Breach of Lease, and Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. 
·       KAN Investment’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the Fourth Cause of Action for Products Liability.

·       KAN Investment’s Motion to Strike is
GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend.
·       T-Mobile’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with
20 days’ leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third, and Fifth Causes
of Action for Battery, Negligence, Nuisance, and IIED. 
·       T-Mobile’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the Fourth Cause of Action for Products Liability.

·       T-Mobile’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED with
20 days’ leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 19th
day of April
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 