


[1] Plaintiffs did not seek and were
not given leave to file a sur-reply.  “A
court has broad discretion to accept or reject late-filed papers, and the
general rule is that new evidence is not permitted even on reply.”  (Haydon v. Elegance at Dublin (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th  1280, 1289.)  The court will not consider Plaintiffs’ sur-reply.  The court will, however, consider Plaintiffs
reply and Ravich’s Declaration filed in support thereof.  And as will be discussed herein, the court will
allow Robles an opportunity to respond to the new evidence included in the
reply.   


[2]
Plaintiffs argue Robles did
not specifically challenge the enforceability of the delegation clause. In Rent-A-Center,
supra, 561 U.S. at p. 71, the High Court made clear that judicial
consideration of a challenge to the enforceability of the delegation clause is
triggered only if the challenge is directed specifically to the delegation
clause.  (See also Nielsen
Contracting, Inc. v. Applied Underwriters, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1096,
1109 [court resolves challenge to a delegation clause only “when a specific
contract challenge is made to the delegation clause”].)  Contrary to Plaintiffs contention, however,
Robles does in fact challenge the enforceability of the delegation clause. (See
Opp., p. 7:17-23.)  


[3] A side by side comparison between
the language in the agreement considered in Parada and the language at
issue here is illustrative:  In Parada
the two clauses at issue state: Delegation: “‘The parties agree that any and all disputes, claims or
controversies arising out of or relating to any transaction between them or to
the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity of this Agreement, including the
determination of the scope or applicability of this agreement to arbitrate,
shall be submitted to final and binding arbitration before JAMS....’” Severability: “‘[i]n
the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be determined by a trier of fact of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be
unenforceable in that jurisdiction and the remainder of this Agreement shall
remain binding upon the parties as if such provision was not contained
herein.’  (Italics added.)” (Parada,
supra, 176 Cal.App.4th 1554, 1566.)
                
In
this case the delegation and severability clauses state:  Delegation: “[t]he
arbitrator shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to
the interpretation, applicability or enforceability of this
Agreement … any Claim that all or part of this Agreement is void or voidable.”
(Agreement at ¶ 10.2.) Severability: “In the event any provision of this
Agreement is found to be unenforceable by an arbitrator or court of
competent jurisdiction…. If a deemed modification is not satisfactory
in the judgment of such arbitrator or court, the unenforceable
provision shall be deemed deleted, and the validity and enforceability of the
remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby.” (Agreement at ¶ 9.4, emphasis
added.) 
 
 

