 Case Number:  23STCV06004    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling After Submission
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
23, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  October 21, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Chimera Hypergrowth, LLC, et al. v. RS Builders Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV06004
 





















 
NAVIGATORS INSURANCE COMPANY’S MOTION FOR ORDER PERMITTING
THE DEPOSIT OF FUNDS, DISCHARGING OF LIABILITY OF STAKEHOLDER, AND RESTRAINING
ORDER; AND FOR ORDER TO SEVER CROSS-COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Navigators Insurance Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a breach of contract action.  On March 17, 2023, Plaintiff Chimera
Hypergrowth, LLC (“Chimera”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, RS Builders
Inc. (“RS Builders”), RS Design Group, American Contractors Indemnity Company
(“American Contractors”), Navigators Insurance Company (“Navigators”), Western
Surety Company (“Western Surety”), and Juan Carlos Ramirez, for breach of
contract, negligence, money had and received, and claim for recovery against contractor’s
license bond, arising from the Defendants’ failure to complete renovations of Chimera’s
properties in a timely manner pursuant to contract.  In relevant part and as alleged, American Contractors,
Western Surety, and Navigators each hold a Contractor’s Bond for RS Builders.
 
            On May 16,
2023, Navigators filed a Cross-Complaint against RS Builders, Inc. and Juan
Carlos Ramirez for indemnity.
 
            On August
23, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Western Surety Company and American Contractors
Indemnity Company from this action.
 
            On
September 20, 2023, Chimera filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC)
adding Chimera Management LLC and Victor Ong as plaintiffs and Christian Santibanez
as a defendant in this action.  The FAC
also adds causes of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing and violation of Unfair Competition Law.        
 
On November 30, 2023, Navigators filed this motion for an
order permitting: (1) Navigators to interplead the sum of $7,500 of Navigators’
Contractor’s License Bond and be discharged from this action; and (2) that
Navigators’ Cross-Complaint be severed from the instant action.
 
The motion
is unopposed.
 
The court
addresses each request in turn.
 
II.        MOTION FOR INTERPLEADER
            Navigators
seeks to interplead the Bond funds in the sum of $7,500.  Code of Civil Procedure section 386,
the interpleader statute, provides two separate bases for bringing an
interpleader action.  Subdivision (a) of the statute pertains to a
complaint in interpleader brought by a defendant “against whom an action is
pending upon a contract, or for specific personal property ….”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 386, subd. (a).)  Subdivision (b) pertains to a complaint in
interpleader brought by “[a]ny person, firm, corporation, association or other
entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two
or more persons which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple
liability ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).)  
A complaint in interpleader allows
an obligor to require parties with conflicting claims to litigate those claims
against each other, instead of against the obligor. (Code Civ. Proc., § 386,
subd. (b).) The purpose of interpleader is to prevent a multiplicity of suits
and double vexation. (City of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th
1114, 1122.) However, an interpleader action may not be maintained upon the
mere suspicion of double vexation. (Westamerica Bank v. City of Berkeley
(2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 598, 607-608.) The plaintiff must allege facts showing a
reasonable probability of double vexation, or a valid threat of double
vexation. (Ibid.) “Where the only relief sought against one of the
defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money alleged to be wrongfully
withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he is a mere stakeholder with
no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that conflicting demands
have been made upon him for the amount by parties to the action, upon notice to
such parties, apply to the court for an order discharging him from liability
and dismissing him from the action on his depositing with the clerk of the
court the amount in dispute and the court may, in its discretion, make such
order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.5.)  
“If the defendant-stakeholder
claims no interest in the funds or property held, he or she need not file an
interpleader cross-complaint. He or she may simply apply to the court for
permission to deposit the money or property with the court clerk, and for an
order discharging him or her from further liability to the adverse claimants.
Such order will also substitute the adverse claimants as parties to the
action; or, if only money is involved, simply dismiss the stakeholder.
[CCP §§ 386(a), 386.5]”  (Weil & Brown,
Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶ 2.489.)
Here,
Navigators argues it should be permitted to interplead the Bond funds because Navigators
has incurred a claim arising out the execution of the Bond.  There are no further claims made against
Navigators.  Thus, Navigators is a mere
stakeholder in this action.  Further,
pursuant to Business & Professions Code section 7071.6 subdivision (b), the
liability of a surety as to nonhomeowner claimants is limited to $7,500.
 
            The court
finds Navigators is entitled to an order permitting the interpleading of the
Bond funds. The only claims asserted against Navigators arises from the
issuance of the Bond to RS Builders. 
(See FAC, ¶ 76.)  Further, Chimera is an investor, not a
homeowner, and thus cannot recover more than $7,500 from the Bond if it
prevails on its claims.  (Horowitz Decl.,
¶¶ 3-4.)  As the motion is
unopposed, no arguments are presented directing a different result.
 
III.       SEVER CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
            Next, Navigators seeks an order
severing Navigators’ Cross-Complaint for indemnity.  Navigators argues severance of the Cross-Complaint
will be conducive to expedition and economy only after it is determined whether
any Bond monies should be paid to Chimera. 
 
Upon
a properly noticed motion of a party made no later than the close of pretrial
conference, a court may bifurcate a trial into separate issues when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby. (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)  The court, in furtherance of convenience or to
avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, or of any separate
issue of any number of causes of action, preserving the right of trial by jury
as required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.  (Code Civ. Proc., §1048, subd. (b).)
 
            The court finds severing Navigators’
Cross-Complaint serves economy and efficiency in handling this litigation.  Navigators’ claims for indemnity necessarily
require a determination in the first instance that Chimera’s claims against RS
Builders is meritorious.  Thus, Chimera’s
claims and Navigators’ claims are separate issues that may be addressed in
separate trials.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
            
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Navigators Insurance Company’s
unopposed motion is GRANTED. 
 
Navigators to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   February 28,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            