 Case Number:  23STCV23841    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
28, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Libra Securities
Holdings, LLC, et al. v. Jennifer Robles
 
ASE NO.:                    23STCV23841
 

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Libra Securities Holdings, LLC and Jess Ravich
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant
Jennifer Robles
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            Jess Ravich
(“Ravich”) and Jennifer Robles (“Robles”) began working together in the early
2000’s.  At some point, they were both
hired by TCW.  Robles was hired as Ravich’s
personal assistant.  In June 2019, TCW
fired Ravich.  Robles was terminated as
well. 
 
            In August
of 2019, Ravich, who was CEO of Libra Securities Holdings, LLC (“Libra”), hired
Robles as the Chief Operating Officer.  Robles signed an Employment
Agreement (“Agreement”) and Release with Libra. 
As relevant here, the Agreement contains an arbitration provision.  
 
            In 2020,
Ravich discovered Robles stole $1.8 million from Libra.  Ravich fired
Robles.  In 2023, Robles contacted TCW
and accused Ravich of misconduct.  Robles
made several financial demands to settle claims against Ravich.  Ravich refused her demands. 
 
            On August
10, 2023, Plaintiffs Libra and Ravich sued Defendant Robles in Nevada District
Court (hereafter, the “Nevada Case”), for damages relating to her alleged theft
and injunctive relief to prevent her from breaching the confidentiality and
non-disparagement clauses of the Agreement. 
 
            The parties
agreed to bring the case to Los Angeles.  On October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
a Complaint seeking damages and injunctive relief in this court.  
 
            On October
31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion to compel arbitration.
 
            Robles
filed an opposition.  Plaintiffs filed a
reply and sur-reply.[1]    
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, the party
opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there should be no
enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to
reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, the court can compel parties to an
arbitration agreement to arbitrate their dispute.  
 
III.      APPLICATION
 
            There is no dispute Robles signed an agreement containing
an arbitration provision and the Federal Arbitration Act applies.  The court must decide two issues: (1) does
this court or the arbitrator decide whether the arbitration provision is
enforceable (the delegation clause question)? and (2) if this court decides, is
the arbitration provision enforceable (the enforceability question)? 
A.    Who Decides – the Delegation Clause Issue
 
“Although threshold questions of¿arbitrability¿are
ordinarily for courts to decide in the first instance under the [Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA)], the ‘[p]arties to an¿arbitration agreement¿may agree
to¿delegate¿to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the
enforceability of the agreement.’” (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 239 (Pinela) quoting¿Tiri v. Lucky
Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.)  “Just as the
arbitrability of the merits of a dispute depends upon whether the parties
agreed to arbitrate that dispute, … so the question who has the primary power
to decide arbitrability turns upon what the parties agreed about that matter.”
(Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891.)  The delegation issue is a “gateway” question.
(Rent-A-Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson
(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 69 (Rent-A-Car).)   
 
“There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be
effective.  First, the language of the
clause must be clear and unmistakable. Second, the delegation must not be
revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability.  The ‘clear and
unmistakable’ test reflects a ‘heightened standard of proof’ that reverses the
typical presumption in favor of the arbitration disputes.”  (Aanderud v. Super. Ct. (2017)
13¿Cal.App.5th¿880, 892 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “[u]nless the parties clearly and unmistakably provide otherwise,
the question of whether the parties agreed to arbitrate is to be decided by the
court, not the arbitrator.’” (Pinela, supra, at pp. 239-40 [cleaned
up.].) 
 
Plaintiffs argue the parties clearly and unmistakably agreed
to commit questions of arbitrability to the arbitrator.  In support, Plaintiffs point to the arbitration
provision which states that “[t]he arbitrator shall have exclusive authority to
resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability or
enforceability of this Agreement … any Claim that all or part of this Agreement
is void or voidable.”  (Ravich Decl., Ex.
1, Agreement at ¶ 10.2.)  
 
Robles disagrees. 
Robles argues the delegation clause is not clear and unmistakable
because the Agreement includes contradictory language in the severability
clause.  The law favors Robles’s
position.[2]  “As a general matter, where one contractual
provision indicates that the enforceability of an arbitration provision is to
be decided by the arbitrator, but another provision indicates that [a] court
might also find provisions in the contract unenforceable, there is not
clear and unmistakable delegation of authority to the arbitrator.  Even broad arbitration clauses that expressly
delegate the enforceability decision to arbitrators may not meet the clear
and unmistakable test, where other language in the agreement creates an
uncertainty in that regard.” (Jack v. Ring LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th
1186, 1197 (Jack).) 
 
The string cite in Jack makes the point: “in Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 227, 240–241, 190 Cal.Rptr.3d 159, an arbitration agreement
provided “the arbitrator is to decide enforceability questions,” but a
severability provision recognized a court may decide the same issue;
Division Four of this court found the agreement “point[ed] in two directions”
and, as a result, “there [wa]s no clear and unmistakable delegation.”  (Accord Najarro v. Superior Court
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 871, 877, 880, 285 Cal.Rptr.3d 700 [where a delegation
clause gave the arbitrator “exclusive power” to resolve disputes relating to
“enforceability” including whether the agreement was void, but a severability
clause allowed a court to determine issues such as unconscionability, there was
“no clear and unmistakable delegation to the arbitrator to decide
enforceability”]; Dennison, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at pp. 209–210, 260
Cal.Rptr.3d 675 [where “a contract includes a severability clause stating a
court of competent jurisdiction may excise an unconscionable provision, there
is no clear and unmistakable delegation to the arbitrator to decide if the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable”]; Peleg v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1425, 1444–1445, 140 Cal.Rptr.3d 38 [where a
“delegation provision states that the arbitrator is to decide whether the
Agreement is enforceable while the severability provision contemplates that a
court has the same authority,” “the severability provision that a court
may decide the question of enforceability creates an ambiguity as to whether an
arbitrator should decide if an arbitration contract is enforceable”]; Parada
v. Superior Court (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1554, 1565–1566, 98 Cal.Rptr.3d
743 [where an arbitration
agreement provided that any dispute relating to enforcement or validity of the
agreement “ ‘shall be submitted to final and binding arbitration’ ” but a
severability provision contemplated a “ ‘trier of fact of competent jurisdiction’
” may find a provision of the agreement unenforceable, the agreement “did not ‘
“clearly and unmistakably” reserve’ ” the threshold issue of enforceability to
arbitration].)”  (Jack, supra,
91 Cal.App.5th at p. 1198.)
 
For example, in Parada, to determine if the
delegation clause was clear and unmistakable, the appellate court looked to the
severability provision in the relevant account agreement and compared it to the
delegation clause found in the arbitration provision.  (Parada, supra, 176
Cal.App.4th 1554.)  The
severability provision states “’[i]n
the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be determined by a trier of fact of competent jurisdiction to be
unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be unenforceable in
that jurisdiction and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain binding upon
the parties as if such provision was not contained herein.’  (Italics added.)”  (Id. at p. 1566.) The delegation
clause states, “‘The parties agree that any and all disputes, claims or
controversies arising out of or relating to any transaction between them or to
the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity of this Agreement,
including the determination of the scope or applicability of this agreement to arbitrate,
shall be submitted to final and binding arbitration before JAMS....’” (Italics
added.)” (Id. at p. 1565.)  The
Court of Appeal found that “[u]se of the term ‘trier of fact of competent
jurisdiction’” (in the severability clause) instead of “arbitration panel” or
“panel of three (3) arbitrators” (as used in the delegation/arbitration clause)
“suggests the trial court also may find a provision, including the arbitration
provision, unenforceable.”  (Id.
at p. 1566.). The Parada Court held that the delegation clause did not
clearly and unmistakably reserve to the arbitration panel “the issue whether
those arbitration provisions were unenforceable.” (Ibid.) 
So too here. 
The language and the ambiguity are virtually identical to that in Parada.
The result must therefore be the same.[3]  The
delegation clause does not clearly and unmistakably reserve to the arbitrator
the issue whether the agreement is enforceable. 
The court must therefore decide the enforceability of the arbitration
agreement.   
 
B.    
The
Enforceability Question
 
“California law strongly
favors arbitration. Through the comprehensive provisions of the California
Arbitration Act (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280 et seq.), the Legislature has
expressed a ‘strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a speedy and
relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution.  As with the FAA (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.),
California law establishes a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  An agreement to submit disputes to
arbitration “is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as
exist for the revocation of any contract.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 125.) 
 
 Arbitration agreements may be declared
unenforceable “upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.  This saving
clause permits agreements to arbitrate to be invalidated by ‘generally
applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability,’ but
not by defenses that apply only to arbitration or that derive their meaning
from the fact that an agreement to arbitrate is at issue.” (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S.
333, 339.)
 
Against this background, Robles raises several challenges to
the enforceability of the arbitration clause. 
First, she argues the entire Agreement is unenforceable because it was
entered into for an illegal purpose.  If
this argument fails, she argues the entire Agreement and/or the arbitration
clause are unconscionable.  Next, she argues
the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act
precludes arbitration.  And finally, she
argues Plaintiffs waived their right to arbitrate because they failed to pay
the required arbitration initiation fees.  

 
C.  Further
Briefing
 
Two matters require further briefing.  The court will give Robles an opportunity to
respond to Ravich’s Declaration submitted in reply and the exhibits attached
thereto.  Although Ravich submitted a
declaration in support of Plaintiffs’ moving papers, his declaration at that
time included one exhibit – the Employment Agreement and Release.  With Plaintiffs’ Reply, Ravich attached six
additional exhibits, thereby giving Robles no opportunity to respond.  The court will allow Robles an opportunity to
respond to the six exhibits attached to Ravich’s Reply Declaration and the
discussions related thereto.  This is a
narrow opportunity for a factual response, not an opportunity to raise new
arguments.  If Robles has nothing to add
to her existing declaration, counsel can so indicate, and the court will
proceed with the analysis.    
 
Second, Robles argues without any discussion that Plaintiffs
failed to initiate the arbitration with JAMs as required by recent case law,
although the point is raised and argued in the supporting declaration submitted
by Edmundo Espinoza.  (See Doe v.
Superior Court of City and County of San Francisco (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th
346, 350 [“we strictly enforce the 30-day grace period in section 1281.98(a)(1)
and conclude fees and costs owed for a pending proceeding must be received by
the arbitrator within 30 days after the due date”]; Cvejic v. Skyview
Capital, LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1073, 1078 [“The statute provides
recourse when the party that pressed for arbitration fails to pay its
arbitration fee.  The statute deems this
failure to be a material breach and entitles the claimant to withdraw
unilaterally from arbitration.”].) Plaintiffs do not address this
argument.  Because Robles raised this
argument in one line at the end of her brief without any discussion of the case
law, the court will allow Plaintiffs an opportunity to respond to this narrow
issue. 
 
The court will discuss briefing with the parties.   
 
Dated:   February 28,
2024                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 


