  Case Number:  19STCV05642    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
28, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Garcia Legal v. Esperanza Molina as Trustee of the Esperanza
Molina Trust, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV05642
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Garcia Legal
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Esperanza Molina
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On February 19, 2019, Plaintiff, Garcia legal, filed a Judicial
Council Form Complaint against Defendants, Esperanza Molina, individually and
as Trustee of the Esperanza Molina Trust, for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Common
Counts; and (3) Declaratory Relief.  The
following facts are not in dispute:  Monica
Molina, a lawyer, filed a quiet title action—Molina v. 304 Crane LLC,
LASC Case No. BC659809—in April 2017 on behalf of her mother Esperanza
Molina.  In September 2017, Monica
consulted Plaintiff to assist in the quiet title action.  Thereafter, Garcia Legal agreed to associate
as counsel for Esperanza.  A copy of the
legal services agreement is attached as Exhibit A to the Complaint.  Plaintiff negotiated a settlement of the
case.  However, prior to completing the
settlement documents, Monica notified Plaintiff that it was being terminated as
counsel.  At the time of the termination,
Esperanza owed Garcia Legal nearly $32,000 in legal fees.
 
            Plaintiff further
alleges Esperanza had another quiet title claim regarding the purchase of two
burial crypts at Forest Lawn Glendale (“Forest Lawn Action”).  The Forst Lawn Action is filed as LASC Case
No. 19DGCV00863.  Esperanza learned that
another person had been buried in one of the crypts even though she had paid
for them and never transferred ownership. 
Monica also brought this claim to Plaintiff when consulting Plaintiff in
September 2017.  Esperanza later retained
Plaintiff to handle this matter as well. 
The legal services agreement was modified to give Plaintiff a partial
contingent fee of 25% of the recovery from Forest Lawn.  The modification is attached as Exhibit B to
the Complaint.  The declaratory relief
cause of action directly concerned Plaintiff’s right to fees in that matter.  Plaintiff was likewise terminated as counsel
for Esperanza in the Forest Lawn Action. 
Prior to Plaintiff’s termination, Plaintiff had drafted and sent a
demand letter and a proposed complaint to Forest Lawn.
 
            On April 6,
2020, Plaintiff dismissed the Third Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief.  Defense counsel argued, and Plaintiff agreed,
that Plaintiff’s claim in the Forest Lawn Action was not yet ripe.  At the time, the Forest Lawn Action was
pending. 
 
            On May 26,
2020, Esperanza filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff for Breach of
Contract and Common Counts.
 
            On August
24, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Cross-Complaint against Monica for Indemnity.
 
            On November
30, 2020, the parties in the Forest Lawn Case notified the court that the case
had settled.  On the same day, Monica
filed an anti-SLAPP motion against Plaintiff’s Cross-Complaint against
Monica.  Monica’s motion was denied in
April 2021, which Monica appealed.
This action was stayed until the Court of Appeal issued a
remittitur affirming the denial of Monica’s anti-SLAPP motion in May of 2023.
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave
to file the proposed First Amended Complaint (FAC) to re-add the Third Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief and to add a Fourth Cause of Action for Common
Counts. 
 
Defendants filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The court may, in its discretion and after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any party, or correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend
be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23, 32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy
of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of
the proceedings, up to and including trial . . . this policy should be applied
only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay
and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
A motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and must state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration attesting to
the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the
request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b).)¿ 
 
In ruling on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the
court does not consider the merits of the proposed amendment, because “the
preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to
test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or
other appropriate proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend
where the proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action
or defense, such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be
cured by further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired
or the insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California
Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274,
280-281, disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to file the proposed FAC.  The effect of the amendment is to re-add a claim
for declaratory relief as the Forest Lawn Action has concluded.  (Garcia Decl., ¶ 14.)  A copy of the
proposed pleading is attached to the motion.
 
Esperanza opposes the motion on the sole ground that the
proposed amendment would add new facts and issues adding a degree of complexity
to this action.  This argument is not
well taken.  Plaintiff’s initial
complaint set forth a cause of action for declaratory relief based on Plaintiff’s
representation of Esperanza in the Forest Lawn Action.  A modification to the retainer agreement
between Plaintiff and Esperanza was attached to the Complaint.  Further, it is undisputed that Plaintiff
dismissed the Third Cause of Action because that claim had not yet
ripened.  However, the Forest Lawn Action
has settled.  Plaintiff’s declaratory
relief claim is now ripe.  Further, the
proposed cause of action for common counts is also based on the legal services
rendered in the Forest Lawn Action.  Esperanza
does not show the proposed amendment will necessitate a new set of claims and
defenses, or new and different legal issues, especially when she has been on notice
of Plaintiff’s claims to any recovery Esperanza obtained in the Forest Lawn
Action. ,
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file
and serve its First Amended Complaint within 10 days of this order.[1]
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
Dated:   February 28,
2024                             




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 
            
 
 


