 Case Number:  21STCV05798    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  K 1.         Defendant
BJ’s Restaurants, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
2.         Defendant
BJ’s Restaurants, Inc.’s Motion to Bifurcate is DENIED as MOOT.
3.         Defendants
Reina Guevara’s and Adrian Salazar’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Background[1]  
Plaintiffs Ethan Bergeron (“Ethan”) and Victoria Bergeron (“Victoria”) (together,
“Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On February
16, 2019, and at all relevant times, Victoria and Defendant Andrea Salazar (“Andrea”)
worked at a BJ’s Restaurant. On February 16, 2019, Andrea was babysitting
Victoria’s 4-year-old son Ethan when, without Victoria’s knowledge, Andrea took
Ethan to a party at a house owned by her brother, Defendant Adrian Salazar
(“Adrian”), and Adrian’s wife, Defendant Reina Guevara (“Guevara”). At the
party, Ethan “impacted” a sliding glass door, which shattered into large,
jagged pieces. One of these pieces pierced Ethan’s abdomen. Andrea pulled this
piece out of Ethan’s abdomen, which further ruptured his organs and muscles.
After the incident, Andrea physically and verbally harassed Victoria; although
Victoria complained, she was punished by having to change shifts to avoid
coming into contact with Andrea, which affected her time with Ethan.
On February 16, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of
action against Andrea, Adrian, Guevara, BJ’s Restaurants, Inc. (“BJ’s”) and
Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Premises
Liability (as to Guevara & Adrian)
2.                 
Negligence
(all Defendants [except BJ’s after demurrer sustained on 01/31/2022])
3.                 
Negligence
Per Se (as to Guevara & Adrian)
4.                 
Product
Liability (as to Guevara & Adrian)
5.                 
Harassment,
Assault and Battery (as to Andrea [in default] & BJ’s)
6.                 
Failure
to Prevent Harassment (Hostile Work Environment) (as to BJ’s)
On October 14, 2021, Plaintiffs dismissed the fourth cause of action
against Adrian and Guevara only, without prejudice. On November 8, 2021, Andrea’s
default was entered.
On January 31, 2022, the court sustained BJ’s
demurrer to the second and sixth causes of action, with 30 days’ leave to
amend.
The Final Status
Conference is set for July 16, 2024. Trial is set for July 30, 2024.
2.         BJ’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Legal Standard
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119 [emphasis theirs].)
“On a motion for summary judgment[/adjudication], the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (p)(2).) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
Discussion
BJ’s moves the court for summary judgment in its favor and against Ethan
and Victoria (together, “Plaintiffs”); in the alternative, BJ’s seeks summary
adjudication as follows:
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for
“Harassment and Assault and Battery” fails as a matter of law because (a)
Plaintiffs do not assert a claim on behalf of Ethan; (b) BJ’s cannot be held
vicariously for Salazar’s conduct because the alleged act was not within the
scope of employment; (c) Victoria’s claim is barred by workers’ compensation
preemption under Labor Code § 3601 and (d) Victoria cannot establish
ratification by BJ’s. 
February 1, 2024 Ruling
On February 1, 2024, the court elected to continue the
hearing on the motion to the instant date to permit Plaintiffs’ counsel to
address certain deficiencies in Plaintiffs’ opposing separate statement filed
January 18, 2024, which were identified at length by the court. At that time,
the court instructed Plaintiffs’ counsel to file and serve a corrected Separate
Statement no later than 14 calendar days prior to the continued hearing date
and expressly stated that “[t]he court is not hereby inviting, and will not
consider, any additional briefings or filings of declarations and/or exhibits,
including but not limited to any deposition testimony procedure from Andrea
. . .” (emphasis added).
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the following documents
with respect to the motion: (1) “Plaintiff’s [sic] First Amended Separate
Statement of Disputed & Undisputed Facts in Opposition to Defendant BJ’s
Restaurant’s Motion for Summary Judgment” (12 pages); (2) “Plaintiff’s [sic]
First Amended Compendium of Evidence in Opposition to Defendant BJ’s
Restaurant’s Motion for Summary Judgment” (356 pages); (3) “Plaintiff’s [sic]
Objections to Defendants’ Evidence in Support of Defendant BJ’s Restaurant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment” (12 pages) and (4) “Plaintiff’s [sic] Objections
to Defendants’ Evidence in Support of Defendant BJ’s Restaurant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment” (11 pages).
The court declines to consider any of Plaintiffs’ April 2,
2024 filings, apart from “Plaintiff’s [sic] First Amended Separate Statement of
Disputed & Undisputed Facts in Opposition to Defendant BJ’s Restaurant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment,” as per its February 1, 2024 ruling. The court did
not authorize the late submission of any evidentiary objections.
“Plaintiff’s [sic] First Amended Separate Statement of
Disputed & Undisputed Facts in Opposition to Defendant BJ’s Restaurant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment” is still deficient. California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1350, subdivision (f)(2)
provides that an opposing separate statement must “unequivocally state” whether
a fact is “disputed” or “undisputed,” and that “[a]n opposing party who
contends that a fact is disputed must state, on the right side of the page
directly opposite the fact in dispute, the nature of the dispute and describe
the evidence that supports the position that the fact is controverted. Citation
to the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted must
include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” Plaintiffs’
counsel was advised of this requirement in the court’s February 1, 2024 ruling.
Plaintiffs’ responses to BJ’s “Undisputed Material Facts and
Supporting Evidence” (“DUMF”) Nos. 4-10, 15-21 and 23-27 reflect non-compliance
with the above CRC. (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3) [“The opposition
papers shall include a separate statement that responds to each of the material
facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating if the
opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The
statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts
the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the
opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence. . .”].) Plaintiffs claim to “dispute” DUMF Nos. 4-10,
15-21 and 23-27, but fail to provide
any citation to the evidence in support of their position that DUMF Nos. 4-10,
15-21 and 23-27 are controverted, including by reference to the exhibit, title,
page, and line numbers; instead, each of Plaintiffs’ foregoing responses
purport to refer the court to one of Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections (which,
again, are not being considered by the court as they were newly filed on April
2, 2024). The court will treat Plaintiffs’ response to DUMF Nos. 4-10, 15-21
and 23-27 as “undisputed."
Additionally, Plaintiffs have
changed their original response to DUMF Nos. 4, 8, 9, 15, 17 and 25 from “undisputed”
to “disputed” without explanation[2],
which is beyond the scope of the court’s February 1, 2024 ruling. The court
will treat Plaintiffs’ response to DUMF Nos. 4, 8, 9, 15 and 17 as
“undisputed.” Plaintiffs also added a new “Additional Undisputed Material Fact”
(“PUMF”) (i.e., No. 8) and added new citations in support of their PUMF Nos. 5
and 7. The court will not consider PUMF No. 8 and will consider Plaintiffs’
original citations to their PUMF.
Non-Compliance with CRC Rule 3.1116
Plaintiffs’ “Compendium of Evidence[, etc.]” also reflects non-compliance
with CRC Rule 3.1116, subdivision (b) (i.e., “[o]ther than the title page, the
exhibit must contain only the relevant pages of the [deposition] transcript”).
Evidentiary Objections
The court summarily overrules BJ’s evidentiary objections on the basis
that they reflect non-compliance with California Rules of Court Rule 3.1352,
subdivision (b)(3) (i.e., each written objection to evidence must “[q]uote or
set forth the objectionable statement or material”).
Again, the court declines to consider Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections
filed April 2, 2024 [see above].
Reply to Separate Statement
There is no provision in the Code of Civil Procedure § 437c or CRC Rule
3.1350 that permits a moving party to respond to the opposing party’s response
to moving party’s original separate statement. (See Nazir v. United
Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252). The court will not
consider BJ’s “Response to Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement in Support of its
Reply to Opposition to Defendant BJ’s Restaurants, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Judgment” (“Response”) as it pertains to BJ’s original separate statement;
however, it will consider that portion of the Response wherein BJ’s responded
to Plaintiffs’ “Separate Statement of Material Facts in Dispute.”
Merits
BJ moves the court for summary judgment in its favor and
against Ethan and Victoria (together, “Plaintiffs”).
On February 16, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of
action against Guevara, Adrian, Andrea and BJ’s for (1) Premises Liability, (2)
Negligence, (3) Negligence Per Se, (4) Product Liability and (5) Harassment,
Assault and Battery; only the second, fifth and sixth causes of action were
asserted against BJ’s. On January 31, 2022, the court sustained BJ’s demurrer
to the second and sixth causes of action, with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Plaintiffs did not file a First Amended Complaint; as such, the only cause of
action remaining against BJ’s is the fifth cause of action for Harassment,
Assault and Battery.
Plaintiffs have alleged, in
relevant part, as follows:
Victoria
and Andrea worked for a restaurant owned by BJs at all relevant times. (Complaint,
¶¶ 9, 37 and 38). On or about February 16, 2019, Andrea was babysitting
Victoria’s 4-year-old son Ethan when, without Victoria’s knowledge, she took
Ethan to a party at a house owned by her brother Adrian and Adrian’s wife,
Guevara. (Id., ¶¶ 3, 4, 7, 21 and 24). At the party, Ethan “impacted” a
sliding glass door, which shattered into large, jagged pieces. (Id., ¶¶
25 and 26.) One of these pieces pierced Ethan’s abdomen. (Id., ¶ 27.)
Andrea pulled this piece out of Ethan’s abdomen, which further ruptured his
organs and muscles. (Id., ¶ 28.) 
 
Following
the February 16, 2019 incident, Andrea began harassing Victoria at work. (Id.,
¶ 39.) On multiple occasions Andrea touched, shoved or led Victoria to believe
she was about to be touched with the intent to harm or offend at work. (Id.,
¶ 113). Victoria did not consent to the touching and was harmed or offended by
Andrea’s conduct. (Id., ¶ 115). Andrea’s conduct was motivated by her
perception that Victoria was seeking to hold her brother responsible for
Ethan’s injuries that occurred on his property. (Id., ¶ 116). Although
Victoria complained to her store manager, Krystal Roe (“Krystal”) and area
manager, Matthew Eastman (“Eastman”), BJs validated and approved of the
harassment by failing to address Andrea’s conduct and instead punishing
Victoria by “order[ing] [her] to change to the evening shift.” (Id., ¶¶
42, 45, 117 and 118.) As a result of this shift change, Victoria was unable to
spend time with Ethan and was “further injured.” (Id., ¶¶ 46 and 118.) 
As to Plaintiff Ethan
“The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues. . . [t]he complaint measures
the materiality of the facts tendered in a defendant’s challenge to the
plaintiff’s cause of action.” (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381 [quotations and citation omitted].)
There are no allegations in Plaintiffs’ complaint made by
Ethan against BJ’s. Further, the parties agree that Plaintiffs do not allege
that Ethan was harassed, assaulted, or battered. (UMF No. 1). Plaintiffs
expressly state, in response to DUMF No. 1, that “Ethan “makes no claim against
Defendant BJ’s Restaurants, Inc.” Accordingly, BJs’ motion for summary judgment
as to Ethan is granted.
As to Plaintiff
Victoria
The parties agree that Victoria
and Andrea were employed by BJ’s during the time Victoria alleges she was
harassed, assaulted, and battered by Andrea (DUMF Nos. 2 and 3); that on
February 16, 2019,
Victoria’s son Ethan was injured while at a residence owned by Adrian and
Guevara (DUMF No. 7); that, in March and April 2019, Victoria worked morning
shifts with Andrea (DUMF No. 4); that, following the incident with Ethan,
Victoria asked Andrea for the address of the residence owned by Adrian and
Guevara (DUMF No. 8); that, Andrea got upset when Victoria asked for the
address because she believes Victoria intended to bring a claim against the
homeowners insurance (DUMF No. 10); that, while Victoria was working a morning
shift, Andrea passed by Victoria and used her body to push Victoria out of the
way (DUMF No. 5); that when Andrea pushed Victoria, Andrea told Victoria to get
out of her way and started laughing (DUMF No. 6); that Andrea never threatened
Victoria (DUMF No. 26); that, other than Andrea, no one else at BJ’s called
Victoria names or made any negative comments to or about Victoria (DUMF No. 27);
that, other than this one alleged push by Andrea, there was no other instance
of touching without consent between Victoria and Andrea or between Victoria and
any other co-worker at BJ’s (DUMF Nos. 28 and 29); that, on that day, Victoria
verbally informed a manager, Krystal Bartolotta (“Krystal”) about Andrea
pushing her (DUMF No. 17); that Krystal said to her that BJ’s would move
Victoria to night shifts and that she (i.e., Krystal) would have a conversation
with Andrea (DUMF Nos. 18 and 19); that, about a week or two after the alleged
push by Andrea, Victoria Bergeron started working night shifts at BJ’s (DUMF No.
20); that Victoria started and continued working night shifts at BJ’s so that
she would not cross paths with Andrea because she was tired of being harassed
by her. (DUMF Nos. 21 and 22); that BJ’s changed Victoria’s schedule to working
night shifts in order to help the situation with Andrea (DUMF No. 23); that the
length of Victoria’s shifts in the morning were the same as those at night (DUMF
No. 25) and that Andrea never worked night shifts with Victoria (DUMF No. 24). 
BJs provides argument regarding respondeat
superior and claims that, even if Andrea was acting within the scope of her
employment, Victoria’s exclusive remedy is workers’ compensation.
Victoria, however, has alleged vicarious
liability against BJs based on ratification.[3]

“As an alternate theory to
respondeat superior, an employer may be liable for an employee's act where the
employer either authorized the tortious act or subsequently ratified an
originally unauthorized tort.” (Baptist v. Robinson (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
151, 169.) “Ratification is the voluntary election by a person to adopt in some
manner as his own an act which was purportedly done on his behalf by another
person, the effect of which, as to some or all persons, is to treat the act as
if originally authorized by him. A purported agent's act may be adopted
expressly or it may be adopted by implication based on conduct of the purported
principal from which an intention to consent to or adopt the act may be fairly
inferred, including conduct which is “inconsistent with any reasonable
intention on his part, other than that he intended approving and adopting
it.” (Rakestraw v. Rodrigues (1972) 8 Cal.3d 67, 73.) “The theory
of ratification is generally applied where an employer fails to investigate or
respond to charges that an employee committed an intentional tort, such as
assault or battery.” (Baptist, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at 169).
The above undisputed
facts are that Victoria verbally informed a manager about Andrea pushing her
that same day, that Victoria was told BJs would move her to night shifts and
that Andrea would be spoken to, that Victoria was moved to night shifts shortly
thereafter, that the length of Victoria’s shifts did not change and that Andrea
never worked night shifts with her.
Victoria claims that
BJ’s action in switching her to night shifts “restricted the time she had to
spend with Ethan, and resulted in 1) less tips, and a 2) more [sic] frequently
being called off; a degradation of her income” (Opp., 4:3-6)[4].
Victoria’s claims are unsupported, however. There is no evidence suggesting
that Victoria ever communicated any of the above concerns and/or beliefs to BJs
at any time.
The motion is granted.
2.         Bifurcate
BJ’s motion to
bifurcate is denied as moot, based upon the ruling made on Motion #1.
3.         Adrian’s and Guevara’s Motion for
Summary Judgment
Legal Standard
See Motion #1
Discussion
Adrian and Guevara move the court for summary judgment in their favor and
against Plaintiffs.
February 1, 2024 Ruling
On February 1, 2024, the court elected to continue the
hearing on the motion to the instant date to permit Plaintiffs’ counsel to
address certain deficiencies in Plaintiffs’ opposing separate statement filed
January 18, 2024, which were identified at length by the court. At that time,
the court instructed Plaintiffs’ counsel to file and serve a corrected Separate
Statement no later than 14 calendar days prior to the continued hearing date
and expressly stated that “[t]he court is not hereby inviting, and will not
consider, any additional briefings or filings of declarations and/or exhibits,
including but not limited to any deposition testimony procedure from Andrea
. . .” (emphasis added).
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the following documents
with respect to the motion: (1) “Plaintiffs’ First Amended Separate Statement
of Disputed & Undisputed Facts in Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment” (21 pages); (2) “Plaintiff’s [sic] Compendium of Evidence in
Opposition to Defendant Guevara and Salazar’s Motion for Summary Judgment” (235
pages); (3) “Plaintiff’s [sic] Objections to Defendants’ Evidence in Support of
Defendant Guevara and Salazar’s Motion for Summary Judgment” (3 pages); and (4)
“Proposed Order on Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendants’ Evidence in Support of
Defendant Guevara and Salazar’s Motion for Summary Judgment” (3 pages).
Again, the court declines to consider any of Plaintiffs’
April 2, 2024 filings, apart from “Plaintiffs’ First Amended Separate Statement
of Disputed & Undisputed Facts in Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment,” as per its February 1, 2024 ruling. The court did not
authorize the late submission of any evidentiary objections.
“Plaintiffs’ First Amended Separate Statement of Disputed
& Undisputed Facts in Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment” contains a deficiency.
CRC Rule 3.1350, subdivision (f)(2) provides that an opposing separate
statement must “unequivocally state” whether a fact is “disputed” or
“undisputed,” and that “[a]n opposing party who contends that a fact is
disputed must state, on the right side of the page directly opposite the fact
in dispute, the nature of the dispute and describe the evidence that supports
the position that the fact is controverted. Citation to the evidence in support
of the position that a fact is controverted must include reference to the
exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” Plaintiffs’ counsel was advised of
this requirement in the court’s February 1, 2024 ruling.
Plaintiffs’ response to Adrian’s and Guevara’s “Undisputed Material
Facts and Supporting Evidence” (“DUMF”) No. 30 reflects non-compliance with the
above CRC. (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3) [“The opposition
papers shall include a separate statement that responds to each of the material
facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating if the
opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The
statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts
the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the
opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence. . .”].) Plaintiffs claim to “dispute” DUMF No. 30, but
fail to provide any citation to
the evidence in support of their position that DUMF No. 30 is controverted,
including by reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers; instead,
Plaintiffs’ response purports to refer the court to one of Plaintiffs’
evidentiary objections (which, again, are not being considered by the court as
they were newly filed on April 2, 2024). The court will treat Plaintiffs’
response to DUMF No. 30 as “undisputed."
Plaintiffs also added new citations
in support of their “Additional Undisputed Material Fact” (“PUMF”) (i.e., Nos.
1 and 7). The court will consider Plaintiffs’ original citations to their PUMF
only.
The court otherwise notes that Plaintiffs have changed
their response to DUMF Nos. 12, 14, 18, 20, 21 and 31 from “disputed” to
“undisputed.” The court, however, does not find these changes problematic as
they narrow, rather than enlarge, the parties’ purported disagreements.
Non-Compliance with CRC Rule 3.1116
Exhibits F and G to Adrian’s and Guevara’s “Compendium of Evidence in
Support of Reina Guevara and Adrian Salazar’s Motion for Summary Judgment”
reflects non-compliance with CRC Rule 3.1116, subdivision (b) (i.e., “[o]ther
than the title page, the exhibit must contain only the relevant pages of the
[deposition] transcript”). Counsel is admonished.
Evidentiary Objections
The court rules on Adrian’s and Guevara’s evidentiary objections as follows:
Sustained as to Nos. 1-13.
Reply to Separate Statement
There is no provision in the Code of Civil Procedure § 437c or CRC Rule
3.1350 that permits a moving party to respond to the opposing party’s response
to moving party’s original separate statement. (See Nazir, supra, 178
Cal.App.4th at 252). Adrian and Guevara’s “Response to Plaintiff’s [sic]
Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts in Support of Opposition to Defendant
Wu’s [sic] Motion for Summary Judgment” (“Response”) [filed 01/26/2024],
however, does not pertain to their original separate statement but only to
Plaintiffs’ “Separate Statement of Material Facts in Dispute.” This is
appropriate.
Merits
On February 16, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of
action against Guevara, Adrian, Andrea and BJ’s for (1) Premises Liability, (2)
Negligence, (3) Negligence Per Se, (4) Product Liability and (5) Harassment,
Assault and Battery; only the first through fourth causes of action were
asserted against Adrian and Guevara. On October 14, 2021, Plaintiffs dismissed
the fourth cause of action against Adrian and Guevara only, without prejudice;
accordingly, only the first through third causes of action remain against
Adrian and Guevara.
Plaintiffs alleged, in relevant part, as follows:
Ethan is Victoria’s son. (Complaint, ¶¶ 1 and
2). Adrian and Guevara are married (Id., ¶¶ 3 and 4). Andrea was Victoria’s
co-worker. (Id., ¶¶ 24, 37 and 38). On or about February 16, 2019, Ethan
was four years old and a guest at Adrian’s and Guevara’s home located at 1019
W. Ituni Street, West Covina, California 91790 (“Property”). (Id., ¶¶
21-22). Ethan had been brought to the Property by Andrea, who was babysitting
him so that Victoria could cover Andrea’s shift at work. (Id., ¶ 24). Ethan
was moving through the Property and impacted a sliding glass door, which
shattered into large, jagged pieces. (Id., ¶¶ 25 and 26). Ethan’s impact
with the sliding glass door was due to Adrian’s and Guevara’s either closing
the glass door in front of him or throwing or pushing him into the sliding
glass door. (Id., ¶ 25). The sliding glass door was made without safety glass.
(Id., ¶¶ 55, 89). At least one large piece of glass pierced Ethan’s
abdomen, resulting in injury. (Id., ¶¶ 27 and 30). 
Premises Liability and Negligence
Plaintiffs
have alleged that the shattering occurred due to design flaw,
manufacturing defect, or a failure of Adrian and Guevara to properly maintain
the sliding glass door or to correct or install safety glass to replace this
known hazard on the Property (Id., ¶ 26); that Adrian and Guevara failed
to warn Ethan of the risk of injury or otherwise advise him of potential harm
he might suffer (Id., ¶ 53) and that Adrian and Guevara failed to
supervise Ethan (Id., ¶ 68).
The
elements of both premises liability and negligence are “(1) a legal duty of
care, (2) breach of that duty, and (3) proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Martinez
v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 517). Civil Code § 1714
provides that “[e]veryone is responsible. . . for an injury occasioned to another by
his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her
property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of
ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself. . .”
“Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk
of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
32, 37). “Broadly
speaking, premises liability alleges a defendant property owner allowed a
dangerous condition on its property or failed to take reasonable steps to
secure its property against criminal acts by third parties.” (Delgado v.
American Multi-Cinema, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1406, fn. 1.)  “In the absence of actual or constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition, the owner is not liable. Moreover, where
the plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a dangerous condition to prove
the owner's negligence, the plaintiff has the burden of showing that the owner
had notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct it.” (Moore v.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 472, 476.) “The existence of duty is a question
of law to be decided by the court [citation], and the courts have repeatedly
declared the existence of a duty by landowners to maintain property in their
possession and control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Lawrence v. La
Jolla Beach & Tennis Club, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 11, 22.)
The parties agree that Adrian and Guevara own the Property
(DUMF No. 6); that they bought the Property in October 2014 (DUMF No. 7); that
the Property was built in 1955 (DUMF No. 8); that the sliding glass door was
already installed at the time of Adiran’s and Guevara’s purchase of the
Property (DUMF No. 14); that, prior to their purchase of the Property, Adrian
and Guevara were never in the business of manufacturing, distributing or
installing any sliding glass door anywhere (DUMF No. 14); that from October
2014 until February 16, 2019, no one had run into the sliding glass door, there
were no injuries, and there were no other accidents involving the subject glass
door (DUMF No. 12) and that during the five years preceding the subject
incident, Adrian and Guevara had frequently and regularly used the sliding
glass door with no incident whatsoever (DUMF No. 18). The parties also agree
that on February 16, 2019, Victoria entrusted Andrea to watch Ethan (DUMF No.
27); that Ethan went to speak with Andrea in the backyard of the Property and
closed the sliding glass door behind him (DUMF No. 30); and that after Ethan’s
conversation with Andrea, Ethan attempted to enter the home and collided with
the close sliding glass door (DUMF No. 31).
Adrian and Guevara further attest that at the time of their
purchase of the Property, the house was inspected and nothing was mentioned
about changing or replacing the sliding glass door (Guevara Decl., ¶ 5; Adrian
Decl., ¶ 5); that, at the time of purchase, no prior incidents involving the
sliding glass door were reported to them (Guevara Decl., ¶ 6; Adrian Decl., ¶
6); that no changes were made to the sliding glass door since their purchase of
the Property until the time of the February 16, 2019 incident (Guevara Decl., ¶
7; Adrian Decl., ¶ 7); that, prior to February 16, 2019, they did not know that
the sliding glass door was annealed, plate glass and not a tempered glass
(Guevara Decl., ¶ 9; Adrian Decl., ¶ 9); and that, prior to February 16, 2019,
they did not know the difference between an annealed glass and a tempered glass
(Guevara Decl., ¶ 11; Adrian Decl., ¶ 11).
The court determines that Adrian and Guevara have satisfied
their moving burden negating the element of duty. Plaintiffs, in turn, contend
that the 2014 Property Inspection Report (Pltfs’ Compendium of Evidence, Exh.
17) reflects that “defendants had foreknowledge of the dangers of their
non-compliant glass door.” (Opp., 7:25-27). Exhibit 17, however, provides only
the following information with respect to the “sliding door:” “can not
determine if tempered, worn frames/hardware—COS[.]” Further, there were two
boxes checked underneath “sliding door,” one for “good” and one for
“fair.”  The report does not state that
the sliding glass door needed to be replaced or was not up to Code, nor does it
make any recommendations pertaining to the sliding glass door. The court
determines that Plaintiffs have not shown a triable issue of one or more
material fact.
Negligence Per Se
Plaintiffs have alleged that at all times, building codes of
the County of Los Angeles and the City of West Covina concerning the
installation of sliding glass doors such as that in the Property must be safety
glass. (Id., ¶ 56); that it was also the express policy and municipal
codes of those agencies that sliding glass doors must be glazed and thus be
“safety glass” (Id.); and that, at the time of sale of the Property,
such sliding glass doors must be upgraded to safety glass if they were not made
of safety glass. (Id.)
Adrian and Guevara’s expert John Brault, MS (“Brault”)
attests that the prevailing building code for the Property at the time of
construction was either the 1952 or 1955 Uniform Building Code (UPC), neither
of which required the use of tempered glass in the subject sliding door (Brault
Decl., ¶ 5); that the sale of the Property in 2014 would not have triggered
replacement of the glass in the subject sliding door (Id., ¶ 6) and that
at the time of the subject incident the sliding glass door was compliant with
the prevailing version of the UBC (Id., ¶ 7). The court determines that
Adrian and Guevara have satisfied their moving burden negating the element of
duty. Plaintiffs do not provide any evidence disputing these statements. The
court determines that Plaintiffs have not shown a triable issue of one or more
material fact.
The motion, then, is granted.


