  Case Number:  23PSCV00962    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Moore
Sweeping’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED in full.
Background   
Case
No. 22PSCV01040

Plaintiff Moore Sweeping
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff
and Defendant Guy F. Atkinson Construction, LLC (“Atkinson”) entered into a
contract dated July 19, 2019 (“Contract”), whereby Plaintiff was to perform
street sweeping services for Atkinson on State Route 60 pavement rehabilitation
project in Los Angeles County (the “Project”). The Contract was subject to the
Federal Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (“DBE”) program requirements and the
State of California Department of Transportation’s “(CalTrans”) Disadvantaged
Business Enterprise Policy. Plaintiff began work on the Project on December 29,
2019. At the outset, Atkinson did not request more than one DBE street sweeper
for the Project. Plaintiff then became aware that Atkinson was using another
company, Century Sweeping, Inc. (“Century”), for street sweeping on the Project
in violation of the Contract terms. Plaintiff also became aware that Atkinson
had engaged in two separate DBE violations: the illegal replacement of a DBE
subcontractor and prompt payment violations. CalTrans investigated Atkinson’s
alleged violations and, in or about April 2020, found that Atkinson had indeed
committed same. Atkinson terminated the Contract without notice and without a
justifiable reason immediately following the investigation, on the basis that
Plaintiff had not obtained the required special shift letter from Atkinson’s
union, the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 12 (“Union”), to
begin work at the time it was instructed to by Atkinson. Plaintiff was the only
subcontractor out of several that had this special shift letter requirement.
Atkinson and Union were complicit in preventing this letter from being obtained
by Plaintiff. At the time of termination of the Contract, there remained
outstanding to Plaintiff $759,739.23 left on the Contract price. Plaintiff
filed a complaint with CalTrans regarding Atkinson’s termination of the
Contract and filed a Stop Notice, but CalTrans found that Atkinson had good
cause to replace Plaintiff.
On April 20, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a “Amended Verified Complaint,” asserting causes of action
against Atkinson, Union, Joseph Pacheco (“Pacheco”) and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
3.                 
Unfair Business Practices (Bus. & Prof. Code §
17204)
4.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
5.                 
Intentional Misrepresentation
6.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
On April 25, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed Union and Pacheco, without prejudice.
On November 16,
2023, the court related Case Nos. 22PSCV01040 and 23PSCV00962; Case No.
22PSCV01040 was designated as the lead case.
The Final Status Conference is set for September 24, 2024.
Trial is set for October 8, 2024.
Case No. 23PSCV00962
Plaintiff Moore
Sweeping (“Plaintiff”) alleges
as follows:
In July 2019,
Plaintiff was hired as a subcontractor by Atkinson to perform street sweeping
services for Atkinson on the Project. Pursuant to its subcontract with Atkinson,
Plaintiff was required to hire only Union employees to work on the Project and
to enter into a contract with the Union to procure the employees needed to
perform Plaintiff’s contracted-for work on the Project. Plaintiff and the Union
then entered into a Short-Form Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”) which
was subject to the terms of a Master Labor Agreement (“MLA”) incorporated
therein. 
 
In October 2019,
Plaintiff contacted the Union to procure operators to perform work on the
Project and was put in contact with business representative Pacheco. Pacheco
made discriminatory requests of Plaintiff, asking for documents that were not
required for Plaintiff to perform its work on the Project which delayed Plaintiff’s
start time on the Project. Pacheco required only Plaintiff to obtain a bona
fide special shift letter, intimidated one of Plaintiff’s employees into filing
a baseless grievance, failed to follow grievance resolution procedures and
stopped Plaintiff’s work on the Project. Perry Hawkins (“Hawkins”) was the
district representative and/or treasurer for the Union and Pacheco’s superior
and assisted Pacheco’s violations. Carl Mendenhall (“Mendenhall”) was the treasurer
for the Union and assisted Pacheco’s violations. 
On November 16,
2023, the court related Case Nos. 22PSCV01040 and 23PSCV00962; Case No.
22PSCV01040 was designated as the lead case.
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Second Amended
Verified Complaint (“SAC”), asserting causes of action against Union, Pacheco,
Hawkins, Mendenhall (collectively, “Defendants”) and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract 
2.                 
Unfair Business Practices (Bus. & Prof. C. §17200,
Et Seq.)
3.                 
Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation
4.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
5.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
6.                 
Conspiracy to Commit Fraud
The Final Status Conference is set
for September 24, 2024. Trial is set for October 8, 2024.

Legal Standard
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119 [emphasis theirs].)
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more
causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or
more claims for damages, or one of more issues of duty, if the party contends
that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to
the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or
did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
“On a motion for summary judgment[/adjudication], the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that
there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element
of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order
granting summary adjudication in its favor and against Defendants on the
following causes of action and affirmative defenses:
Issue No. 1:
First cause of action for Breach of Contract.
Issue No. 2:
Second cause of action for Unfair and Unlawful Business Practices.
Issue No. 3:
Third cause of action for Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation.
Issue No. 4:
Fourth cause of action for Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations.
Issue No. 5:
Fifth cause of action for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage.
Issue No. 6:
Eighth affirmative defense of no punitive damages.
Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
(“RJN”) is granted. “A court may properly take judicial notice of its own records.
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (e).)” (Garcia v. Sterling (1985) 176
Cal.App.3d 17, 21.)
Evidentiary Objections
The court declines to rule on Defendants’
evidentiary objections, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subdivision
(q) (i.e., “[i]n granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections to evidence that it
deems material to its disposition of the motion”).
Merits
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed its SAC against
Defendants for Breach of Contract, Unfair Business Practices (Bus. & Prof.
C. §17200, Et Seq.), Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation, Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations, Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage and Conspiracy to Commit Fraud. Plaintiff
alleged therein as follows: In July 2019, Plaintiff was hired as a
subcontractor by Atkinson to perform street sweeping services for Atkinson on
the Project, which was owned by CalTrans. (SAC, ¶ 9). Per the subcontract,
Plaintiff was required to hire only Union employees to work on the Project and
to enter into a contract with the Union to obtain the employees needed to
perform Plaintiff’s work on the Project. (Id., ¶ 10). Plaintiff and the
Union entered into a CBA which stated that it was subject to, and incorporated
all, terms of an MLA. (Id., Exh. 1) Plaintiff contacted the Union in
approximately October 2019 to obtain operators to perform work on the Project
and was put in contact with Pacheco, the business manager for the Union. (Id.,
¶ 11). Pacheco made discriminatory requests of Plaintiff asking for documents
that were not required for Plaintiff to perform its work on the Project, which
delayed Plaintiff’s start time on the Project by two months. (Id.) After
Plaintiff was allowed to begin work on the Project on December 30, 2019,
Plaintiff was told it was required by the Union to submit a shift letter with
start and end times of the regular established shift for Plaintiff’s employees.
(Id., ¶ 12). Plaintiff submitted a shift letter with a start time of 10
pm and an end time of 6 am. (Id.) The Union accepted this letter and was
required, per the terms of the CBA and MLA, to dispatch a qualified operator to
the jobsite. (Id.) The Union-dispatched operator who arrived at the
Project jobsite gave Plaintiff an Introduction Slip, which contained the start
time and the rate of pay required by the Union for which all employees of
Plaintiff were paid. (Id.)
The first operator sent by the Union was unqualified, so
Plaintiff contacted the Union and requested another operator. (Id., ¶
13). Although the Union stated that another operator would be dispatched, the
Union sent the same operator that Plaintiff had just terminated. (Id.)
The original operator and Pacheco knew each other which led Plaintiff to
believe, in light of Pacheco’s earlier discriminatory comments and requirements
of Plaintiff at the start of the Project, that there was collusion between them
to sabotage Plaintiff’s work on the Project. (Id.) Plaintiff was
required to alter its requirements for a sweeper operator in order to obtain
its own operator. (Id., ¶ 14.) Arthur Martinez, a Union member, started
working for Plaintiff on the Project on or about January 7, 2020, but he was
continually harassed by Pacheco. (Id., ¶ 14.)
On or about January 15, 2020, Pacheco and the Union
contacted Plaintiff and requested that it provide a bona fide special shift
letter from Atkinson for the start times presented on the original shift
letter. (Id., ¶ 15). Plaintiff advised the Union that this would cause
problems with Atkinson, but the Union insisted that Plaintiff’s and Atkinson’s start
times must match, even though the CBA and MLA were silent on this issue. (Id.)
Martinez handed over his paystubs after being harassed by Pacheco. (Id.,
¶ 16). Pacheco claimed Plaintiff was not properly paying Martinez and essentially
forced Martinez into filing a grievance against Plaintiff. (Id.) Plaintiff
asked the Union and Pacheco to put whatever alleged violation was being
committed or why a bona fide special shift letter was required in writing, but
they refused. (Id., ¶ 17). Plaintiff continued to pay Martinez the only
rate stipulated in writing from the Union as shown on his Introduction Slip. (Id.)
Martinez’s grievance was submitted by the Union and dated April 6, 2020. (Id.,
¶ 18). Plaintiff never received notice of any meetings regarding or a hearing
on the grievance with the Labor Management Adjustment Board as required by the
MLA. (Id.) Pacheco never intended to follow the grievance procedure in
the MLA because he knew the grievance was fraudulent; instead, on April 20,
2020 Pacheco showed up to the Project jobsite during a night shift with other
Union members and ordered Martinez off the sweeper and to park it and lock the
doors, arguing that Plaintiff was in violation of Union regulations and was
being “shut down.” (Id., ¶ 19). Atkinson employees informed Plaintiff’s
CEO/owner Moore that same night that Plaintiff was being targeted for
discrimination, because Plaintiff was the only subcontractor on the Project out
of several that the Union required to have this bona fide shift letter. (Id.,
¶ 20).
The MLA states that the work of a contractor on the Project cannot
be stopped under any circumstances, whether or not a union grievance is filed.
(Id., ¶ 21, Exh. 3.) The Union and Pacheco violated the terms of the CBA
by stopping Plaintiff’s work on the Project. (Id., ¶ 22). Pacheco’s
superior and the Union’s District Representative and/or Treasurer, Hawkins, was
aware of Pacheco’s contract violations committed by Pacheco and assisted in
same by telling Moore that he was required to have the same shift as Atkinson
and by giving Pacheco permission to physically shut Plaintiff’s work down at
the Project. (Id., ¶¶ 4 and 23). Hawkins told Moore’s attorney at that
time that Moore was “not going back out” to the Project without the bona fide
special shift letter. (Id., ¶ 23) Moore spoke with Union Treasurer Carl
Mendenhall (“Mendenhall”) twice for assistance. (Id., ¶¶ 5 and 23)
Mendenhall was aware of all of Pacheco’s actions and Pacheco told Moore that
Mendenhall approved all of his actions. (Id.) Mendenhall told Moore that
Moore needed to get a shift letter from Caltrans when he knew Moore did not.
and told Moore that Pacheco was entitled to go out to the Project site and shut
Moore down. (Id.)
On April 23, 2020, Atkinson provided Plaintiff with a bona
fide special shift letter. (Id., ¶ 24). 
 The Union, though, subsequently
told Plaintiff that the letter had to come from CalTrans, (Id.) On April
30, 2020, Moore notified CalTrans and Atkinson that he had been stopped from
working and he believed he was being discriminated against, and asked for a
bona fide special shift letter from CalTrans. (Id., ¶ 25). Moore spoke
with the Resident Engineer of CalTrans, Sepand Minovi, who told him that
CalTrans headquarters would not give him permission to write this letter. Minovi
also said that the shift start time is decided by the Prime Contractor, not
CalTrans. (Id.) Plaintiff became aware that Atkinson was using another
company, Century Sweeping, Inc. (“Century”), for street sweeping on the Project
and was not required by the Union to have a bona fide special shift letter. (Id.,
¶ 26). When Moore asked Pacheco why Century did not have this requirement, Pacheco
responded by saying “it’s none of your business!” (Id.)
The Subcontract was subject to DBE program requirements and
Caltrans' Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Policy. (Id., ¶ 27).
Plaintiff became aware that Atkinson had engaged in two separate DBE
violations. (Id.) CalTrans investigated and found, in or about April
2021, that Atkinson had committed two DBE violations alleged and mentioned the
Union four times in its review indicating that CalTrans believes the Union
played a part in interfering with Plaintiff’s Subcontract. (Id.). Atkinson
thereafter terminated the Subcontract while there remained outstanding to
Plaintiff a significant amount of money left on the Subcontract price. (Id.,
¶ 28).
CalTrans conducted an audit on Plaintiff’s payroll and found
no MLA violations. (Id., ¶ 29). The Union never provided anything in
writing regarding the bona fide special shift letter because it knew such a
requirement was false. (Id., ¶ 35). Also, while the Union claims that
the grievance filed by Martinez was settled, the Union has no evidence to
support this claim and Plaintiff was never involved in any of the required
grievance procedures set forth in the MLA. (Id., ¶ 36). The grievance
was also untimely filed. (Id., ¶ 43).
The prayer of Plaintiff’s SAC, in relevant part, seeks
compensatory damages “in an amount according to proof against all defendants”
as to the First and Third-Sixth causes of action, restitutionary damages “in an
amount according to proof, as well as injunctive relief” as to the Second cause
of action and punitive damages against defendants pursuant to the Third-Sixth
causes of action.
On January 12, 2023, Defendants filed their answer to the
SAC, asserting “No Punitive or Exemplary Damages” as their eighth affirmative
defense (i.e., reading “Plaintiff is not entitled to recover punitive or
exemplary damages from each Defendant herein because no such Defendant at any
time engaged in discriminatory practices or actions intentionally, with malice,
and/or with reckless disregard for Plaintiff’s or others’ rights”).
First Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of Contract)
Plaintiff has alleged that the Union breached the CBA and MLA
by stopping Plaintiff’s work in violation of Article III of the MLA and by
failing to follow the required procedures for a grievance set forth in Article
V of the MLA. (SAC, ¶¶ 40, 43 and 50).
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Plaintiff’s request for summary adjudication of this cause of
action is summarily denied, on the basis that Plaintiff has failed to meet its
initial burden. At a minimum, Plaintiff has failed to provide any evidence in
support of the element of damages in its moving papers, stating only that it
“was substantially harmed by defendants’ actions.” (Motion, 7:26)[1].
While Plaintiff’s CEO Moore attests that “[w]ithout defendants’ actions as set
forth in the SAC and this Motion, my company would have been permitted to
continue to work on the Project and would have earned millions in revenue”
(Moore Decl., ¶ 23]), he fails to provide the court with any documentary
evidence substantiating this statement, nor does he make any attempt to provide
a specific monetary figure with respect to the revenue he claims Plaintiff
would have earned.
Second Cause of Action (i.e., Unfair Business Practices
(Bus. & Prof. C. §17200, Et Seq.))
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants violated the unfair
competition law by intentionally breaching the terms of the CBA and MLA, filing
a false grievance “through intimidation and scare tactics,” removing
Plaintiff’s operator from the job, by failing to follow the grievance
procedures set forth in the MLA, and by discriminating against Plaintiff by
requiring compliance with purported shift letters and by asking Plaintiff to
supply documents unrelated to its performance of work on the Project. (SAC, ¶
54).
“Business and Professions Code section 17200…establishes
three varieties of unfair competition-acts or practices which are unlawful, or
unfair, or fraudulent.” (Podolsky v. First Healthcare Corp. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 632, 647.) Section
17204 provides a private right of action “by a person who has suffered injury in fact and
has lost money or property as a result of the unfair competition.” Further,
“[i]njunctive relief and restitution are the only remedies available under the
UCL.” (Esparza v. Safeway, Inc. (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 42, 53.)
Again, Plaintiff’s request for summary adjudication of this
cause of action is summarily denied, on the basis that Plaintiff has failed to
meet its initial burden. Plaintiff has failed to provide any evidence in
support of the element of damages in its moving papers, instead generically
stating only that it “has suffered injury and lost money as a result of
defendants’ unfair and unlawful business practices.” (Motion, 8:6-7). Moore
fails to provide the court with any documentary evidence substantiating his statement
made in ¶ 23 of his declaration, nor does he make any attempt to provide a
specific monetary figure with respect to the revenue he claims Plaintiff would
have earned. At any rate, “compensation for expected but unearned future income
to which the plaintiff has no legal entitlement is not recoverable as
restitution under the UCL, regardless whether it is characterized as lost
market share. Lost profits are damages, not restitution, and are unavailable in
a private action under the UCL.” (Lee v. Luxottica Retail North America,
Inc. (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 793, 797.)
Third Cause of Action (i.e., Fraud/Intentional
Misrepresentation)
Plaintiff has alleged that in February 2020, Pacheco,
Mendenhall and Hawkins, all representing the Union, indicated to Plaintiff that
it was required to have a bona fide special shift letter to begin work, which
was false and known by them to be false when they represented same. (SAC, ¶
62). Plaintiff has also alleged that in April 2020 defendants represented to
Plaintiffs that Martinez had filed a grievance against Plaintiff for allegedly
failing to pay the correct applicable wages to him under the CMA and MLA, which
was false and known by them to be false when they represented same as Martinez
was coerced into signing the grievance. (Id.).
“The essential allegations of an
action for fraud are a misrepresentation, knowledge of its falsity, intent to
defraud, justifiable reliance, and resulting damage.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976) 57
Cal.App.3d 104, 109.)
Plaintiff’s request for summary adjudication of this cause of
action is summarily denied, on the basis that Plaintiff has failed to meet its
initial burden. Plaintiff has failed to provide any evidence in support of the
element of damages in its moving papers, instead stating only that it “was
severely harmed by not being permitted to complete the work for which it was
hired on the Project.” (Motion, 11:5-6). Again, Moore fails to provide the
court with any documentary evidence substantiating his statement made in ¶ 23
of his declaration, nor does he make any attempt to provide a specific monetary
figure with respect to the revenue he claims Plaintiff would have earned.
Fourth Cause of Action (i.e., Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations)
Plaintiff
has alleged that plaintiff and Atkinson entered into a subcontract dated July
19, 2019 for the Project, that Defendants knew of the subcontract, that
Defendants intentionally made Plaintiff’s performance of the subcontract more
difficult by only requiring Plaintiff to provide a bona fide shift letter,
knowing that Plaintiff would not be able to provide same and that the
subcontract would be disrupted, and that the Union and Pacheco requested of
Plaintiff information that was not standard industry practice, evidencing their
discriminatory attitude towards Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶¶ 71-73). Plaintiff has
alleged that Defendants also intended to disrupt performance of the
subcontract, or the that was certain or substantially certain to occur, when
they filed the false grievance, failed to follow grievance resolution
procedures and stopped Plaintiff’s work on the Project. (Id., ¶ 74).
“The
elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
Plaintiff’s request for summary adjudication of this cause of
action is summarily denied, on the basis that Plaintiff has failed to meet its
initial burden. Plaintiff has failed to provide evidence in support of the
element of damages in its moving papers, instead stating only that it “was
harmed by defendants’ . . . actions.” (Motion, 12:23-24). While Moore attests
that “[by interfering with my subcontract with Atkinson on the Project,
defendants caused me to lose millions in revenue from the Project that went to
Century Sweeping” (Moore Decl., ¶ 19; see also ¶ 23, supra]), Moore fails to
provide the court with any documentary evidence substantiating this statement,
nor does he make any attempt to quantify the “millions” Plaintiff purportedly
lost.
Fifth Cause of Action (i.e., Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage)
Plaintiff has alleged
that at the time the Union had the subcontract terminated, Plaintiff and
Atkinson were in an economic relationship that would have resulted in an
economic benefit to Plaintiff under the Subcontract, that Plaintiff and
Atkinson had also been in discussions for Plaintiff to perform all street
sweeping needs for Atkinson in Southern California, that Plaintiff intended to
open a shop in Southern California and build on its reputation to obtain
further work from other contractors as well, that none of that was possible
once defendants’ actions caused the Subcontract to be terminated, that
Defendants knew of that business relationship between Plaintiff and Atkinson
and engaged in the actions regarding the grievance and termination of the Subcontract
with the intent to interfere with Plaintiff and Atkinson’s business
relationship or with the knowledge such disruption was certain/substantially
certain to occur and that the relationship was disrupted. (SAC, ¶¶ 80-84).
“The five elements for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are: (1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.” (Youst v. Longo
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71, fn. 6.)
Plaintiff’s request for summary adjudication of this cause of
action is summarily denied, on the basis that Plaintiff has failed to meet its
initial burden. Plaintiff has failed to provide evidence in support of the
element of damages in its moving papers, instead stating only that it “was
harmed by this disruption of its relationship with Atkinson to the tune of over
a million dollars on the Project and untold millions more in future work with
Atkinson in Southern California.” (Motion, 14:7-9). Moore attests that “[by
interfering with my subcontract with Atkinson on the Project, defendants caused
me to lose millions in revenue from the Project that went to Century Sweeping” and
that “at the time of the Union’s stoppage of my work on the Project, Atkinson
and I were in discussions for my company to perform all street sweeping needs
for Atkinson in Southern California that would have resulted in millions of
dollars in revenue for my company,” (Moore Decl., ¶ 19; see also ¶ 23, supra]),
Moore fails to provide the court with any documentary evidence substantiating
this statement, nor does he make any attempt to quantify the “millions”
Plaintiff purportedly lost.
Eighth Affirmative Defense (i.e., No Punitive Damages)
Punitive damages may be awarded “[i]n an action for the
breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.” (Civ. Code § 3294.)
Plaintiff asserts that there are no triable issues of fact
as to whether Defendants’ actions were done with malice, intentional oppression
or fraud because Defendants required only Plaintiff to have a bona fide special
shift letter, filed a false grievance against Plaintiff which was late, failed
to follow proper grievance procedures and allow Plaintiff to participate and
intentionally and under threat of force stopped Plaintiff from working on the
Project. (Motion, 15:1-27).
However, Defendants have submitted evidence that the
governing Master Labor Agreement (“MLA”) is one between the Union and the
Southern California Contractors Association, Inc. (“SCCA”), rather than the MLA
between the Union and the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc. (“AGC”),
which Plaintiff attached as Exhibit 3 to the SAC; that the Short Form CBA that
incorporates the SCCA MLA excepts certain SCCA MLA provisions from
incorporation, such as SCCA MLA grievance procedures and provisions on strikes
or work stoppages, that only the Short Form CBA applies to Defendants’ handling
of member grievances arising from the SCCA MLA and that Article XIX of the SCCA
MLA “Working Rules” required the bona fide special shift letter. (Hawkins
Decl., ¶¶ 11-20, Exh. B; Pacheco Decl., ¶¶ 12-20). Again, Plaintiff in reply
now concedes that it attached the incorrect MLA and that the SCCA MLA is, in
fact, the correct MLA.
Plaintiff’s request for summary adjudication of Defendants’
eighth affirmative defense is denied.


