 Case Number:  24STCV21046    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  86 ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date:               9/12/24 (1:30 PM) 
Case:                           Periodic Holdings v. Megan McMurray et al. (24STCV21046) 
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Periodic Holdings’ request for a preliminary
injunction is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction enjoining defendant Continental
Stock Transfer & Trust (“Continental”) from canceling shares of WPFH in
plaintiff’s possession and reissuing them in the names of defendants Megan
McMurray and Chad Correia. (See Kasper Decl. ¶ 47; Richards Decl. ¶ 5; Hipple
Decl. ¶ 16; Pls. Exs. 5, 10.) Plaintiff essentially argues that defendants
McMurray and Correia misrepresented themselves and their ability to raise capital
for plaintiff’s start-up company so that plaintiff would transfer its shares in
WPFH as collateral for the investment. (Kasper Decl. ¶¶ 6-8, 43; Supp. Kasper
Decl. ¶ 5.)  
 
“[T]he question whether a preliminary injunction should be
granted involves two interrelated factors: (1) the likelihood that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.) 
 
As a preliminary matter, on 8/23/24, the Court ordered plaintiff
to serve all moving papers, any supplemental moving papers, the summons and
complaint, and the order to show cause on defendants by 8/30/24. Defendant
McMurray was served by substitute service on 8/28/24. However, no proof of
service indicating that the supplemental brief filed on 8/30/24 was served on
McMurray has been filed. Moreover, defendant Correia was untimely served on
9/4/24. No proof of service was filed as to defendant Continental. For the
failure to serve and provide adequate notice alone, the requested preliminary
injunction shall not issue.
 
Even considering all the papers filed, the Court finds no
cause to issue the preliminary injunction. Plaintiff has not demonstrated a
likelihood of prevailing on the merits. Plaintiff cites Corporations Code §
25401, which states: “It is unlawful for any person to offer or sell a security
in this state, or to buy or offer to buy a security in this state, by means of
any written or oral communication that includes an untrue statement of a
material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in the light of the circumstances under which the statements were made,
not misleading.” (See also Complaint ¶¶ 58, 59.) There is no evidence
that defendants bought the WPFH shares. Plaintiff apparently transferred the
shares to defendants McMurray and Correia not for any monetary compensation but
based on an expectation that they would raise capital for his start-up. (Kasper
Decl. ¶¶ 7-14.) 
 
Plaintiff also alleges that it transferred the shares to
McMurray and Correa due to defendant’s misrepresentations, deceit, and
concealment. (Complaint, ¶ 55.) Plaintiff, however, fails to demonstrate
justifiable reliance in order to successfully make out any fraud. (See Small
v. Fritz Cos. Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 173 [element of fraud is
justifiable reliance on misrepresentation].) “The reasonableness of the
plaintiff's reliance is judged by reference to the plaintiff’s knowledge and
experience.” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets
Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 864.)
 
Plaintiff’s principal avers that he was introduced to
Correia by a mutual acquaintance named Randy, who he knew for two to two and a
half years. (Supp. Kasper Decl. ¶ 4.) Randy described Correia as someone
capable of raising funds and managing a family on behalf of his wife’s family.
(Supp. Kasper Decl. ¶ 4.) Randy claimed to have known Correia for years and
vouched for his experience in managing various brokerage accounts. (Supp.
Kasper Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff later was introduced to McMurray, who he was led
to believe was Correia’s wife. (Supp. Kasper Decl. ¶ 4.) Correia and McMurray
represented to plaintiff’s principal that they could assist plaintiff in
raising capital through their family office or other financial vehicles, such
as stock loans, syndication, and direct introductions to investors. (Supp.
Kasper Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendants never raised any capital for plaintiff. (Supp.
Kasper Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s principal later learned that Correia and
McMurray are not married, that Correia misrepresented his name as “Chris,” and
that Correia had been arrested for forgery and ID fraud. (Kasper Decl. ¶¶ 5,
31, 33, 34; Supp. Kasper Decl. ¶¶ 4, 9, 10.) McMurray is also purportedly
facing criminal prosecution for ID fraud as well. (Supp. Kasper Decl. ¶ 10.) McMurray
filed a complaint with the Securities and Exchange Commission, leading
Continental to threaten to cancel plaintiff’s shares and issue them in the name
of McMurray. (Pl. Ex. 10.)
 
Plaintiff appears to have relied on Randy’s recommendation
of Correia, as well as Correia and McMurray’s usage of the language of
investments in believing that they knew how to raise capital. (Supp. Brief at
11:1-3 [“Defendant Correia is knowledgeable about the finance and securities
business and made statements to Plaintiff designed to have them reasonably
believe progress on various opportunities was progressing”].) Plaintiff apparently
did not investigate Correia and McMurray’s experience in raising start-up
capital. As plaintiff envisioned raising $75 million and $125 million (Kasper
Decl. ¶ 6), the Court does not find plaintiffs’ reliance to have been
reasonable or justifiable under the circumstances, as plaintiff failed to
conduct any reasonable inquiry into defendants’ background or claims. 
 
Moreover, defendants purportedly required the capital to be
“collateralized” by plaintiff’s shares in WPFH. (Kasper Decl. ¶ 5.) It is
unclear how such collateralization would work, including under which
circumstances and/or how the shares would be used as collateral or when, if
ever, the shares would be released to plaintiff. The insufficient—if not
nonsensical—description of the terms of plaintiff’s agreement to use the shares
as collateral also renders this Court unable to find that the transfer of the
shares to defendants was justifiable under the circumstances.
 
Plaintiff does not discuss any other causes of action on
which it is likely to prevail. For the foregoing reasons, plaintiff has not
demonstrated that it is likely to prevail on its claims. 
 
Having failed to show a likelihood of prevailing on any
cause of action, plaintiff’s request for a preliminary injunction is DENIED,
notwithstanding any puported harm that may result from the denial of plaintiff’s
request. (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn. (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 454, 459 [“In a practical sense it is appropriate to deny an
injunction where there is no showing of reasonable probability of success, even
though the foreclosure will create irreparable harm, because there is no
justification in delaying that harm where, although irreparable, it is also
inevitable”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s request for a preliminary injunction is DENIED. The
Court’s Temporary Restraining Order and Order to Show Cause re: Preliminary
Injunction issued on 8/23/24 are accordingly dissolved and discharged,
respectively.