  Case Number:  20STCP04290    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 DAVID SEYDE, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 BRIAN
  KENNEDY, an individual, DRAKE KENNEDY, an individual; REGENCY OUTDOOR
  ADVERTISING, INC., a California corporation; SKYLINE OUTDOOR MEDIA, LLC, a
  California limited liability company; NTGS ACQUISITION, LLC, a Delaware
  limited liability company; and DOES 14-100, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.        
 
 
    
  AND RELATED CROSS ACTIONS
                       


 


     
  CASE NO.:  20STCP04290
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SEAL
 
Date: January 9, 2025
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY:  Defendants Brian Kennedy, Regency
Outdoor Advertising, Inc. and Skyline Outdoor Media (collectively “Defendants”)

RESPONDING PARTY: None

 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition has been filed. 
 


 
BACKGROUND
            This action was filed in December
2020.  On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff David
Seyde (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”)
alleging six causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty;
(4) fraud; (5) intentional interference with contractual relations; and (6)
aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty. 
The fifth and sixth causes of action are asserted only against NTGS
Acquisition, LLC (“NTGS”).    
 
            On October 11, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant motion to seal (the “Motion”). No opposition has been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “The public has a First Amendment
right of access to civil litigation documents filed in court and used at trial
or submitted as a basis for adjudication.” (Savaglio v. Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 596, citing NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV),
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1208-1209, fn. 25.) 
 
Therefore, before a trial court orders a
record sealed, it must hold a hearing and make express findings set forth in
California Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d): (1) there exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Savaglio,
supra, at p. 596; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) A court’s
order allowing documents to be filed under seal must contain express factual
findings establishing these five factors. (Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(d).)  
 
            Defendants move to seal two
exhibits, specifically Exhibits JJ and KK, to the supplemental declaration of Robby
S. Naoufal in support of Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses and
compel compliance. Defendants argue that there is an overriding interest that
supports sealing the documents because the documents contain confidential
attorney-client communications and confidential information pertaining to
Defendants financial and business affairs. (Mot. pp. 6:26-7:19) Defendants assert
that they will be prejudiced if the documents are not sealed because the “information
contained in each Exhibit is currently not available to members of the public,
including business competitors and potential purchasers of Regency’s assets.
(Mot. p. 8:22-24.) Defendants further assert that the request is narrowly
tailored and no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest
because they seek to seal only two of the produced exhibits. (Mot. p. 9:1-13.) Lastly,
Plaintiff has not opposed the Motion and thus there is no argument as to why
the exhibits should not be sealed. 
 
Thus, there is an overriding interest in
the exhibits to be sealed. Protecting confidential attorney-client information
and confidential trade secrets are overriding interests that overcome the right
of public access to the information. The interests support sealing the exhibits.
There is a substantial probability that Defendants will suffer ongoing
prejudice by not sealing the exhibits, the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored to protecting the confidential attorney-client and trade secret information
at issue, and no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.
 
            Defendants Motion to Seal is
GRANTED. Exhibits JJ and KK to the Supplemental Declaration of Robby S. Naoufal
in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses and Compel
Compliance are sealed. 
 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 9th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 