

 
            This is a personal injury action. Plaintiff
Myra Garcia (Plaintiff or Garcia) alleges that on March 9, 2020, she was
injured when she tripped and fell entering an elevator (Elevator or Elevator
No. 8) in the lobby of the Manulife Plaza
building, 515 South Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, California 90071 (Property).
Plaintiff contends that as she entered the Elevator, her foot caught on the
elevator car threshold – which was allegedly misleveled with the lobby – causing
her to fall. Plaintiff sued John Hancock Life Insurance Company (John Hancock or Defendant) and Otis Elevator Company
(Otis) for products liability, premises liability, general negligence, and for
violation of the Disabled Persons Act. 
 
American
Casualty Company of Reading, Pennsylvania (American Casualty) filed a Complaint
in Intervention.[1]
 
            On
January 27, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint, alleging causes
of action for (1) products liability; (2) premises liability; (3) general
negligence; and violation of California Civil Code § 54 et seq. 
 
            On
October 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal as to her first cause
of action for products liability asserted against John Hancock. On January 27,
2023, this Court granted John Hancock’s motion for summary adjudication as to
the fourth cause of action for violation of California Civil Code § 54 et seq.
Thus, only the premises liability and negligence causes of action remain
against Defendant John Hancock.
 
 
            Now,
John Hancock moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication on the second (premises liability) and third (negligence)
causes of action. Plaintiff
opposes the motion. American Casualty joins in
Plaintiff’s opposition. 
 
            The
motion for summary judgment is granted.  The motion for summary adjudication is moot. 
 
Evidentiary Issues:
 
Plaintiff’s
objections to John Hancock’s evidence are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-4 are
overruled. Plaintiff’s objections fail to quote the objectionable material as
required under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354.[2]

 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The party moving for summary judgment
bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue of
material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
             In support of the motion for summary judgment,
John Hancock moves on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot establish all the
elements of her claims and the undisputed facts show that there is no evidence
of breach of Defendant’s duty of care. 
 
            Plaintiff fails to offer controverting
evidence.
 
Both Plaintiff’s and American Casualty’s
separate statements purporting to set forth disputed facts contain serious
procedural defects. The Legislature has specified that failure to comply with
the requirements for an opposing party’s separate statement may be grounds for
granting the motion.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(3), requires that “[e]ach material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence. Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate
statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for
granting the motion.” Here, the separate statements filed by Plaintiff and American
Casualty repeatedly fail to set forth evidence to support the position that a
fact is controverted. Plaintiff designates facts as disputed without any
factual contention or evidence. Often there are simply objections. 
 
When Plaintiff does refer to evidence, there
are references to deposition pages without line references, and declarations
without page references.  Plaintiff also
submitted the same declarations that the Court previously found were conclusory
and of no assistance. Accordingly, the separate statements filed by Garcia and
American Casualty fail to comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(2).
Moreover, the evidence Plaintiff submitted was not separately bound and failed
to contain a table of contents in violation of
rule 3.1350(g). Rather, Plaintiff submitted a 1,449-page document that includes
the notice of motion, the memorandum of points and authorities, declarations,
full deposition transcripts, and exhibits, with no hint in the document’s title
that exhibits are included and no index of exhibits at all. This undifferentiated
Grendel’s Mother of a court filing impedes the Court from expeditiously reviewing
the motion and opposition. “‘The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute. [Citation.]’ To that end,
the rules dictating the content and format for separate statements submitted by
moving and responding parties ‘permit trial courts to expeditiously review
complex motions for ... summary judgment to determine quickly and efficiently
whether material facts are disputed.’ [Citations.] That goal is defeated where,
as here, the trial court is forced to wade through stacks of documents, the
bulk of which fail to comply with the substantive requirements of section 437c,
…or the [Rules of Court].” (Collins v. Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 64, 72.)
 
            The Court briefly describes examples
of the separate statements’ shortcomings.
  
Plaintiff’s response to John Hancock’s
Undisputed Material Fact no. 4.  Plaintiff disputes John Hancock’s assertion
that Plaintiff believes she tripped over the threshold between the elevator
floor and the lobby floor, stating that “Plaintiff testified she fell due to misleveling.”  Plaintiff refers to her deposition without
line numbers. Apart from whether a party may offer her own deposition as
evidence other than in rebuttal, none of the pages listed reflects such a characterization.
In the absence of evidence the fact is undisputed.
 
            Plaintiff’s response to John
Hancock’s Undisputed Material Fact no. 5.  John Hancock asserts that it is undisputed
that its janitorial staff vacuumed and wiped down the elevators approximately
three times a day.  Plaintiff purports to
dispute the fact, but merely interposes a relevancy objection.  First, an evidentiary objection is inappropriate
in a statement of disputed facts (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b); Hodjat
v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
1, 8-9 [rules require that evidentiary objections be filed separately and not
repeated in separate statement].), and second, the fact is relevant and the
objection is overruled.  
 
            Plaintiff’s response to John
Hancock’s Undisputed Material Fact no. 8. 
Plaintiff disputes John Hancock’s assertion that the elevators in
the Building were maintained by Otis, by stating that they were maintained by
John Hancock through its contractor Otis. This is not a dispute of fact. The
same effort to create a dispute where none exists applies to UMF nos. 9, 10,
11, and 12. 
 
            Plaintiff’s response to John
Hancock’s Undisputed Material Fact nos. 14-16.  Plaintiff disputes the evidence regarding
City elevator inspectors by arguing that the permits “indicate the elevator
safe for that instance, not into the future.” 
This is not a meaningful point because city safety inspections are not
required hourly. Plaintiff again fails to raise a dispute of material fact.
 
            Plaintiff’s response to John
Hancock’s Undisputed Material Fact nos. 22, 25, and 27.  Plaintiff interposes objections in
violation of rule 3.1354, and fails to “describe the evidence that supports the
position that the fact is controverted” or provide appropriate citation to the
evidence. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(3).)
 
            Plaintiff’s response to John
Hancock’s Undisputed Material Fact no. 26.  Plaintiff simply says “Disputed,” with
nothing more.  In the absence of
supporting evidence, this fact is undisputed.
 
Although these many violations of the
statute and court rules offer ample justification for granting John Hancock’s
motion (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3).), the Court will address the
merits.
 
Second Cause of Action for Premises Liability:
 
            Defendant John Hancock argues
Plaintiff cannot prevail on the premises liability claim because John Hancock
took steps to ensure the safety of its patrons, and Plaintiff cannot show John
Hancock had notice of any dangerous condition.
 
The elements of a cause of action
for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1205; see Civ. Code, 1714, subd. (a).) Generally,
“[t]he owner of premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the
management of such premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an
unreasonable risk of harm. A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.” (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.) Thus,
the fundamental inquiry is whether the landowner exercised reasonable care in
preventing injury to persons on the premises. (Id. at p. 1620.)
 
Property owners are not liable for
“damages caused by a minor, trivial, or insignificant defect in his property.”
(Cadam v. Somerset Gardens Townhouse HOA (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 383,
388-389.) However, even where a defect is not trivial, the property owner must
have actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition before
liability may be imposed. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200,
1206.) Thus, to impose liability on a property owner, “ ‘the owner or occupier
“must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition
or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to discover the condition,
which if known to him, he should realize as involving an unreasonable risk to
invitees on his premises.” ’ ” (Ibid.) The plaintiff has the burden of
showing that the property owner “had notice of the defect in sufficient time to
correct it.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Defendant John Hancock argues that
it did everything that a reasonable common carrier could have done to avoid
injuries to the Plaintiff.
 
John Hancock submits evidence that it had
a janitorial staff that vacuumed and wiped down all of the elevators in the
building three times per day. (DSS 5.) Plaintiff also testified that there was
no debris, trash, dirt, or liquid on the floor when she was entering the Elevator
that could have caused her to fall. (DSS 6.) 
 
John Hancock also retained Otis to perform
all maintenance, including preventative maintenance on its elevators. (DSS
8-10.) At the time of the subject incident, an Otis technician was physically
at the John Hancock Building two days per week from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. (DSS 11.)
As a part of their responsibilities, Otis mechanics cleaned, examined, and
inspected the elevator equipment for ordinary wear and tear, and made any
necessary repairs or replaced worn parts as needed. (DSS 12.) During each visit
to an elevator, an Otis mechanic would also ride the elevator from top to
bottom, stopping at multiple floors. When this occurs, the mechanic will check
the overall condition of the elevator which includes observing the leveling of
the elevator car and any other hazards. (DSS 12.)
 
On February 13, 2020, just three and a
half weeks prior to Plaintiff’s fall, Otis performed four hours of general
maintenance on Elevator No. 8 which consisted of observing the quality of the
elevator ride, car leveling, stopping accuracy, and door operation. (DSS 13.)
 
Further, all of the elevators, including
Elevator No. 8, are inspected on a regular basis by the City of Los Angeles
Department of Building and Safety (LADBS) for purposes of obtaining permits for
their use. (DSS 14.) During these inspections, the City inspector will evaluate
the stopping accuracy of the elevators, whether the elevator becomes
substantially level with the landing zone, and whether the power opening
feature of the elevator is working properly. (DSS 15.) In 2015, 2017 and 2019,
Elevator No. 8 was inspected by the LADBS and a permit was issued identifying
no safety issues or Title 8 code violations. (DSS 16-18.)
 
In addition to inspections that occur
through Otis and LADBS, John Hancock retains a third-party consultant, H.H.
Angus, to inspect the elevators and monitor Otis’ performance in maintaining
the elevators. (DSS 19.) In 2013, H.H. Angus inspected Elevator No. 8 and found
no deficiencies. (DSS 20.) In 2021, H.H. Angus performed another inspection and
concluded that all of the elevators were in good condition and code compliant.
(DSS 21.)
 
Lastly, John Hancock also has a system in
place whereby individuals may report concerns or issues with its elevators
called “Building Engines.” (DSS 23.) In at least the seven years prior to the
subject incident, John Hancock had no notice of any condition relating to
mis-leveling of Elevator No. 8. (DSS 24.) During the five-year period prior to
the Incident, Otis did not receive or observe any accidents or complaints of
injury involving Elevator No. 8 similar to those alleged by Plaintiff. (DSS 25-27.)
Additionally, James Clark, the Otis mechanic stationed at the John Hancock
Building since 2019, never observed any incidents in Elevator No. 8 prior to
the Incident to indicate that it was not leveling properly. (DSS 28.)
 
Even Plaintiff – who used the elevators in
the Building “hundreds of times” – failed to identify any issue with Elevator
No. 8 prior to the subject incident. (DSS 30-31.) Before the date of the
incident, Plaintiff specifically rode Elevator No. 8 at least 25 to 50 times
without issue or complaint. (DSS 32.) She also never complained to John Hancock
about any issues relating to her use of the elevators in the Buildings. (DSS 33.)
 
These facts are sufficient to shift
Defendant’s initial burden on the premises liability claim as they demonstrate
an absence of any breach of Defendant John Hancock’s duty of care. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant John Hancock owed a duty to
provide safe passage for its invitees using the elevator; however, there is no
dispute on this issue – only whether there was breach of this duty. Defendant
John Hancock’s evidence of various parties inspecting and maintaining the
elevator is to demonstrate a lack of a breach of duty of care by ensuring the
safety of its patrons, not that Defendant’s duty of care had been delegated to
another party. (Mot., 2:9-7:24.) 
 
In fact, Defendant – on this motion – applies a common carrier duty.
“[A] common carrier [for reward] is any entity which holds itself out to the
public generally and indifferently to transport goods or persons from place to
place for profit.” (Huang v. The Bicycle Casino, Inc. (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 329, 339.) Under this common carrier duty, a defendant must “use
the utmost care and diligence for [a person’s] safe carriage, must provide
everything necessary for that purpose, and must exercise to that end a
reasonable degree of skill.” (Civ. Code, § 2100.)
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the City
inspections of the elevators are inadequate because they do not ensure elevator
safety “in perpetuity.” (Opp., 12:5-13.) Defendant does not argue that it does,
only that elevator was regularly maintained and inspected for defects. 
 
Third, Plaintiff argues “Defendant knew of
prior incidents with the subject elevator and failed to provide adequate man
hours to ensure the safety of the elevators as well.” (Opp. 12:16-17.)
Plaintiff does not develop this argument or cite to any material facts. Thus,
presumably, Plaintiff is relying on the same arguments and evidence that the
Court previously rejected when raised in opposition to Otis’ motion for summary
judgment. (11/21/2023 Minute Order, pp. 10-13.)  
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
John Hancock created the dangerous condition. In making this argument, Plaintiff
points to Defendant Hancock’s use of the “advance pre-opening” feature on the Elevator.
(PSS 22.) As Plaintiff notes, the Elevator was only one of the ten elevators
that had this feature enabled.
 
Again, these arguments were all made and
rejected by this Court on its ruling on Otis’ motion for summary judgment. (11/21/2023
Minute Order, pp. 10-13.) Plaintiff provides no new evidence (and in fact
relies on the same deficient Stabler declaration) and arguments.
 
As previously discussed by this
Court, there is no evidence that this feature in fact creates a dangerous
condition. Plaintiff merely notes that this feature was enabled, but provides
no evidence that this feature violated any regulations or safety protocols.
While it is true that the evidence shows that elevators constructed after 1998
were prohibited from having this pre-opening feature, pre-1998 elevators were
allowed to continue operating with this feature. (PAF 59.) Thus, the mere
existence of this feature being enabled – as it was lawfully allowed to be –
without more is insufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact
regarding a breach of a duty of care. (MCI Communications, Inc. v.
Maverick Cutting and Breaking LLC (D. Minn. 2019) 374 F.Supp.3d
789, 808 [explaining that industry best practices are not industry
standards of care in affirming a trial court’s granting a defendant’s motion
for summary judgment].)
 
Moreover, there is no evidence that this
feature was even the cause of the alleged “mis-leveling” of the Elevator.
Plaintiff’s expert did not even inspect the Elevator and there were no past
complaints regarding mis-leveling from this Elevator for years, despite this
feature being enabled. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has
failed to raise a triable issue of material fact in dispute. The motion for
summary adjudication of this cause of action is granted.
 
Third Cause of Action for Negligence:
 
            “Premises
liability is a form of negligence.” (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management
Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.) “The elements of a negligence
claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach
of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior
Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.) 
 
            As
already determined, there are no triable issue of material facts in dispute
with respect to a breach of Defendant’s duty of care; thus, the negligence
claim also fails. Accordingly, the motion for summary adjudication to the
negligence cause of action is also granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted. The motion for summary adjudication is moot.  
 
 


