 Case Number:  23CHCV03777    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 01-22-25
Case # 23CHCV03777, Mann v. Ani Tsaghikyan
Trial Date: None set.
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE
DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ani Tsaghikyan
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Michelle Mann
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Order setting aside the Default entered on
September 13, 2024, and the default judgment entered on November 18, 2024, and
leave to file an answer to the complaint.
 
RULING: Motion
is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On December 16, 2021, plaintiff Michelle Mann
(Plaintiff), defendant Ani A. Tsaghikyan (Defendant), and several other
individuals were involved in a multi-vehicle collision which resulted in
Plaintiff suffering injuries and damages. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s auto insurance company, State Farm,
accepted liability but has been unable to settle the case outside of
court.  Plaintiff filed this action on
December 12, 2023 alleging causes of action for general negligence and motor
vehicle, and personally served Defendant on April 14, 2024.  On April 15, 2024, Defendant took the
complaint to her insurance carrier, State Farm, who advised Defendant that
State Farm would retain an attorney to handle the complaint.  Based on this, Defendant did not take further
action.
 
After receiving no response from Defendant, default
was entered against Defendant on May 20, 2024, and the Court granted default
judgment against Defendant on November 18, 2024.
 
On November 26, 2024, Defendant filed this motion
to set aside and vacate the default and default judgment.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on January 9,
2025.  Defendant filed a reply on January
14, 2025.
 
SUMMARY OF ARGUMENTS
Defendant argues that her failure to appear
in this action is due to mistake and excusable neglect, based on the
representations of her insurance carrier. 
Defendant did not file a responsive pleading because she was under the
impression that her insurance company would respond to Plaintiff’s complaint.  The day after Defendant was served with the
complaint, Defendant took the complaint to her insurance carrier, State Farm,
who advised her that State Farm would retain an attorney to handle the
complaint.  Based on this, Defendant believed
she did not need to take further action. 
After learning about the entry of default on September 16, 2024,
Defendant retained counsel.  That same
day defense counsel reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel to seek a stipulation to
set aside the default, but Plaintiff refused. 
Defense counsel sent several follow-up emails to Plaintiff’s
counsel.  On November 20, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel advised that a request for entry of default judgment was filed and a
stipulation could not be reached unless Defendant and State Farm admitted to
liability.
 
Plaintiff opposes arguing that ignorance of
legal procedures or reliance on third parties, such as an insurance carrier,
does not amount to mistake or inadvertence. 
Defendant had ample opportunities over the five months from service of
the complaint to entry of default judgment to verify the status of this case.  Plaintiff will be prejudiced if the Court grants
this motion because Plaintiff has expended significant time and resources
prosecuting this case and related cases, obtaining default judgment, and
attempting to enforce the judgment. 
Plaintiff has also experienced delayed justice, constant badgering from
medical creditors inquiring about the outcome of this case, and continued
emotional distress from non-stop delays. 
Further, Defendant failed to comply with section 473, subdivision (b)’s
procedural requirements because Defendant did not include a proposed answer or
responsive pleading with her motion.  
 
Defendant replies that beginning September
16, 2024, Defendant’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s
counsel to set aside the dismissal.  Plaintiff
agreed to set aside if Defendant and State Farm would admit to their liability
and agree to settle.  Defendant sent
Plaintiff proposed stipulations, and Plaintiff provided revisions on October 1,
2024.  Then Plaintiff filed for default
judgment.  Plaintiff’s counsel admitted
in emails that he had been in settlement negotiations with State Farm and was
aware of their existence as Defendant’s insurance company when filing the
complaint.  The proposed answer was
inadvertently not attached to the moving papers, but Defendant attached it to
the reply brief.  
 
ANALYSIS
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party . . . from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  The law favors hearings on the merits, so any
doubts as to the application of section 473 should be resolved in favor of the
party seeking relief from default.  (See Shapiro
v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)  Defendant has six months after judgment is
entered to file a motion to set aside the judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
As an initial matter, Defendant failed to
attach her proposed responsive pleading to her motion but did attach it to her
reply.
 
When a default results from an attorney’s
inexcusable neglect, such as failing to timely respond to the complaint, the
attorney’s conduct is not imputed to the client unless the court finds that the
attorney is simply covering for the client. 
(See Rogalski v. Nabers Cadillac (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 816, 821
[applying this concept to insurance carriers.)
 
However, “a defendant seeking to vacate a
default, either under section 473 or by appeal to the court’s
equitable powers, who alleges reasonable reliance on an insurance carrier must .
. . establish justification for the inaction of the carrier.”  (Don v. Cruz (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d
695, 702; see also Scognamillo v. Herrick (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 1139,
1149-1150 [“ There is no indication that the Legislature intended that
insureds who reasonably rely on their insurance carriers should not be charged
with the inexcusable negligence of their carriers.”].)  To establish the justification for inaction,
the moving party must present evidence such as declarations from the insurance
carrier explaining why the carrier failed to take action despite knowing about
the pending lawsuit.  (But see Rogalski,
supra, 11 Cal.App.4th at p. 821 [noting insurance carrier repeatedly led
defendant to believe it would response to the complaint before abandoning
plaintiff].)  
 
Defendant presents no evidence from State Farm explaining
why State Farm failed to respond to the complaint.  Defendant states that she took the complaint
to State Farm the day after Plaintiff served her.  Defendant did not file any responsive
pleadings because State Farm told her it would handle responding to the
complaint, and Defendant believed that State Farm and Plaintiff were in settlement
negotiations.  Further, Defendant
mentions no other attempts by her to communicate with State Farm about the
complaint prior to the entry of default or that State Farm “repeatedly” told
her that it would respond to the complaint. 
 
Defendant argues that once she learned about entry of
default, she was diligent in securing counsel and attempting to seek relief
from the default.  Plaintiff argues
Defendant did not diligently seek relief from default after learning of the
entry of default because Defendant unnecessarily delayed filing this
motion.  “[W]here the aggrieved party
makes a strong showing of diligence in seeking relief after discovery of the
facts, and the other party is unable to show prejudice from the delay, the
original negligence in allowing the default to be taken will be excused on a
weak showing.”  (Aldrich v. San
Fernando Valley Lumber Co. (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 725, 740.)
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant has an independent duty
to defend and monitor the process of the case, including not simply passing
legal documents along to an insurance carrier to absolve them of
responsibility.[1]  Aldrich discusses positive misconduct—an
attorney’s failure to represent his client—and whether a client can be held
responsible for his attorney’s inexcusable neglect.  (Aldrich, supra, 170 Cal.App.3d
at p. 739.)  In Aldrich, the Court
of Appeal held that although a client is not responsible for his attorney’s
inexcusable neglect in representation, once the client discovers facts of the
attorney’s misconduct the client must subsequently demonstrate sufficient
diligence in seeking relief from the misconduct’s fruits including an entry of
default or default judgment.  (Aldrich,
supra, 170 Cal.App.3d at p. 740.) 
Once the Aldrich defendant learned his case had been dismissed
due to his attorney’s misconduct, he secured a new attorney who filed a motion
to set aside the dismissal 21 days later. 
(Ibid.)  And although the
plaintiff argued it suffered prejudice due to the delay, the Court found that
plaintiff’s single declaration did not set forth substantial evidence of prejudice
such as “missing witnesses [and] evidence destroyed.”  (Ibid.)  The Court of Appeal ultimately affirmed the
trial court’s order setting plaintiff’s dismissal of the case aside.
 
Defendant promptly secured counsel upon learning of the
default and began a meet and confer process with Plaintiff’s counsel.  However, Defendant delayed filing this motion
to vacate because the parties were in the process of negotiating a stipulation.  Plaintiff’s counsel ceased communications
with defense counsel after September 25, 2024, and Defense counsel sent two
follow-up emails on October 1 and 22, 2024 asking for Plaintiff’s confirmation
on the stipulation.  Plaintiff’s counsel
did not communicate again until informing defense counsel of her request for
entry of default judgment on November 20, 2024.  Unlike the Don v. Cruz and Rogalski defendants
who filed their motions to vacate while attempting to seek stipulations, Defendant
waited until Plaintiff informed her of the entry of default judgment.
 
Plaintiff claims that she will be prejudiced if her
default and default judgment is set aside because she has expended significant
time and resources prosecuting this case and obtaining and enforcing this
judgment.  She has two other cases
against the other individuals involved in the vehicle collision, and the delay
in this cause has resulted in constant badgering from medical creditors
inquiring about the outcome of this case and continued emotional distress from
non-stop delays.  Plaintiff’s health care
providers continue to grow impatient over the delay in Plaintiff’s payment of
her healthcare debts.
 
The Court finds that Defendant fails to make sufficient
showings of State Farm’s justification for not responding and diligence and
that Plaintiff establishes how she will suffer prejudice in her finances and
other cases if the default and default judgment is set aside.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to set aside
and vacate entry of default and default judgment is denied. 
 
Defendant to give notice.


