 Case Number:  22STCV30299    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JONATHAN
  POWERS, et al.,
  
         vs.
 
EQUITY WAVE
  LENDING, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV30299
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 7, 2024



 
Defendants Jack
J. Suddarth’s, Equity Wave Lending, Inc.’s, Gregory A. Moore’s, and Edith A.
Moore’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Jonathan S. Powers, individually and as
attorney-in-fact for Phyllis A. Powers and Jonathan S. Powers Roth IRA’s and
Henry Kreuter’s fourth amended complaint is sustained without leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and
4th causes of action.
Defendants Jack
J. Suddarth’s, Equity Wave Lending, Inc.’s, Gregory A. Moore’s, and Edith A.
Moore’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages is denied as
to Equity Wave Lending, Inc. 
 
Defendants Jack J. Suddarth (“Suddarth”), Equity Wave
Lending, Inc. (“EWL”), Gregory A. Moore (“Gregory”), and Edith A. Moore (“Edith”)
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”) demur to the to the fourth amended
complaint (“4AC”) of Plaintiffs Jonathan S. Powers (“Jon”), individually and as
attorney-in-fact for Phyllis A. Powers (“Phyllis”) and Jonathan S. Powers Roth
IRA, and Henry Kreuter (“Kreuter”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2.) 
 
           Request
for Judicial Notice
           Moving
Defendants’ 5/8/24 request for judicial notice of (1) Deed of Trust duly
recorded in the Official Records, Recorder’s Office, Los Angeles County,
California, as Document Number: 20180427661, in which the Borrower is Brian
Hedger, and the Lenders are the Plaintiffs (D-RJN, Exh. 1);
(2) Redacted Uniform Residential Loan Application in which it is disclosed that
the subject vacant land was acquired in 2015 for $75,000.00 and stated the
borrower’s income (D-RJN, Exh. 2); (3) Deed of Trust duly recorded in the
Official Records, Recorder’s Office, Los Angeles County, California, as
Document Number: 20190264346, in which the Borrower is Brian Hedger, and the
Lender is Equity Wave Lending, Inc. (D-RJN, Exh. 3); (4) Assignment of Deed of
Trust which assigns the Deed of Trust from Equity Wave Lending, Inc. to the
Plaintiffs, which was duly recorded in the Official Records, Recorder’s Office,
Los Angeles County, California, as Document Number: 20190517709 (D-RJN, Exh.
4); (5) Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale duly recorded in the Official Records,
Recorder’s Office, Los Angeles County, California, as Document Number:
20210949907, in which the Plaintiffs became the owners of the subject vacant
land pursuant to a “full credit bid” (D-RJN, Exh. 5); (6) Appraisal for the
real property located at 3420 Dorothy Road, Calabasas, California, prepared by
Sandra K. Gramlich (California Certification No. AR037129) of AAMC Orange Co.,
Inc., as of November 14, 2017 (D-RJN, Exh. 6); and (7) Appraisal for the real
property located at 3420 Dorothy Road, Calabasas, California, prepared by Brett
Varon (California Certification No. AR039506) of Next Day Appraisals, as of January
11, 2019 (D-RJN, Exh. 7) is granted.
           Moving
Defendants’ 5/8/24 request for judicial notice of this Court’s 8/18/23 Minute
Order is denied because this Court does not need to take judicial notice of
filings on the instant docket.
 
1.   
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)
(3) The demurring party shall file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which
the demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving
the objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that on May 8, 2024, he
met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel telephonically to discuss the
instant demurrer and motion to strike, and the parties were unable to resolve
the issues raised in the motions.  (Decl.
of Newhide ¶4.)  Moving Defendants’
counsel’s declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Therefore, the Court will consider Moving
Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
           Plaintiffs
filed their initial complaint on September 15, 2022.  Plaintiffs filed their first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on October 6, 2022. 
Plaintiffs filed their second amended complaint (“SAC”) on September 8,
2023.  Plaintiffs filed their third
amended complaint (“TAC”) on February 21, 2024. 
Plaintiffs filed the operative 4AC against Moving Defendants and
Non-moving Defendants Hightechlending, Inc. (“Hightechlending”), Brian Hedger
(“Hedger”), Next Day Appraisals, LLC (“Next Day”), Brett A. Varon (“Varon”),
AAMC Orange County, Inc. (“AAMC”), and Sandra K. Gramlich (“Gramlich”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), alleging five causes of action: (1) breach of fiduciary duty [against
EWL and Suddarth]; (2) negligence [against all Defendants]; (3)
constructive fraud [against EWL and Suddarth]; (4)
misrepresentation [against all Defendants]; and (5) fraudulent
misrepresentation and concealment [against Hedger].  
Moving Defendants filed the instant demurrer and
accompanying motion to strike on May 8, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on May 24,
2024.  Moving Defendants filed their reply
on May 31, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege in March 2018, Jon and Phyllis were
presented with an investment opportunity and loan servicing arrangement by
their broker and agent Suddarth and EWL. 
(See 4AC ¶17.)  Plaintiffs
allege the real property in this dispute are two vacant lots located at 3420
Dorothy Road, City of Calabasas, County of Los Angeles, California (“Calabasas
Property”) with Assessor’s Parcel Numbers 2080-015-033 and 2080-015-034 and a
legal description of: Lots 61 and 62 of Tract. No. 7094, as per map recorded in
book 92, pages 64 and 65 of maps, in the office of the county recorder of Los
Angeles County.  (4AC ¶3.)  
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending were the
agents for their principal, Hedger.  (4AC
¶17.)  Plaintiffs allege Hedger, by and
through his agents Greg, Edith and Hightechlending falsely misrepresented
Hedger’s status as a creditworthy borrower (with sufficient security in the
form of real property) to Plaintiffs, by and through its agents EWL and
Suddarth.  (4AC ¶17.)  
Plaintiffs allege in March 2018, Suddarth, the President
and authorized agent of EWL, advised and represented to Jon that he had
personally viewed the property and that the appraisal valuation was reasonably
accurate.  (4AC ¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege that however, the appraisal
valuation was not accurate and Suddarth’s representation was false.  (4AC ¶18.) 
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth advised, assured, and represented to Jon that
the security provided sufficient protection, that the loan was over-secured,
and that if the security were foreclosed, there would be sufficient sale
proceeds to pay off the secured loan, interest, and all other fees and costs
related to the loan and foreclosure.  (4AC ¶18.) 
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth’s representation was false.  (4AC ¶18.) 
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth assured and falsely represented to Jon that
the secured real property would easily sell for more than the loan amount.  (4AC ¶18.)
Plaintiffs allege the investment opportunity presented by
Suddarth and EWL to Jon and Phyllis provided that Jon and Phyllis would provide
money for a secured loan to Hedger, and act as servicer of the loan secured by
the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶19.)   Plaintiffs allege in reliance on the
representations made by EWL, Suddarth, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending, and
Hedger, Jon and Phyllis invested $168,000 for the lending arrangement.  (4AC ¶19.) 
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending, agents for Hedger,
falsely misrepresented Hedger’s income and value of the real property security
to Plaintiffs by and through their agents. 
(4AC ¶19.)  Plaintiffs allege they
reasonably relied on the false misrepresentations by EWL, Suddarth, Greg,
Edith, Hightechlending, and Hedger.  (4AC
¶19.)  
           Plaintiffs
allege on January 22, 2019, EWL, by and through its authorized agent Suzie
Peach, contacted Plaintiffs, its principals, seeking additional funding to
refinance Hedger’s secured loan, as requested by Hedger’s agents, Edith, Greg,
and Hightechlending.  (4AC ¶20.)  Plaintiffs allege Jon rejected the refinance
demand.  (4AC ¶20.)  
Plaintiffs allege on March 8, 2019, EWL, by and through its
authorized agents Suzie Peach and Debbi Suddarth (Senior Vice President of
EWL), again contacted Plaintiffs regarding Hedger and his agents’ refinance
demand.  (4AC ¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege EWL made false
representations regarding the appraised value of the secured real property,
that Hedger was seeking to develop the Calabasas Property, and that Hedger
possessed a construction timeline.  (4AC
¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege EWL and its
agents failed to advise Plaintiffs that Hedger was at risk for default due to
his missed payments on the initial loan and that the refinanced loan opportunity
presented a greater risk than the initial loan due to the increased amount of
the loan and the fact that Hedger had missed payments.  (4AC ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs allege EWL, by and through its agents, knew that Plaintiffs had
rejected the initial refinance demand, and that additional false
misrepresentations, deception, and omissions were necessary to convince
Plaintiffs to agree to the refinance demand.  (4AC ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs allege a prudent fiduciary agent would have advised their
principal not to invest in this particular cash-out refinance loan due to the
increased risk of default and exposure to Plaintiffs as the opportunity was not
in the best interests of Plaintiffs.  (4AC
¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege they reasonably
relied on the false representations, deception, and omissions of EWL and its
agents, including but not limited to Suzie Peach and Debbi Suddarth.  (4AC ¶21.) 

Plaintiffs allege they proceeded to invest an additional
$274,000.00, as part of a refinance loan arrangement presented by its agent,
EWL.  (4AC ¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending,
agents for their principal Hedger, misrepresented the creditworthiness and
income of Hedger, including the value of the real property security and the
fact that Hedger missed payments for the existing secured loan.  (4AC ¶21.) 

           Plaintiffs
allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending, and Hedger misrepresented
the loan investment to Plaintiffs as an over-secured investment based on their
purported careful and diligent review and research of the borrower and secured
real property.  (4AC ¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith,
Hightechlending, and Hedger misrepresented that the loan to value ratio was
forty percent of the appraised value of $420,000 for the Calabasas Property and
that Hedger’s gross salary was $8,500 per month.  (4AC ¶22.) 
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending owed Plaintiffs a
duty of care because they clearly knew or should have known that Plaintiffs and
Plaintiffs’ agents would rely on the inaccurate and misrepresented borrower
information Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending negligently prepared in making and
funding the loans.  (4AC ¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending
owed a legal duty of care to Plaintiffs. 
(4AC ¶22.)  
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending,
and Hedger failed to disclose and advise Plaintiffs that the property was
purchased for $75,000 in 2015, development of the Calabasas Property was not
permitted, that the development of the vacant lot had not been initiated, that
the permitting of the Calabasas Property could take two years or more, that the
lots did not have a sewer system and relied on a septic system thereby
materially impacting the value of the Calabasas Property, that Hedger had
missed payments on the original loan, and that Hedger was not properly and
thoroughly vetted, investigated, and evaluated for financial trustworthiness,
viability, credibility, and suitability. 
(4AC ¶23.)
Plaintiffs allege Edith, who was an employer of Hightechlending
and spouse of Greg, knew Hedger was dealing with financial hardship and likely
lacked an ability to repay the loan as she had a friendship with Hedger.  (4AC ¶23.) 
Plaintiffs allege Edith failed to disclose Hedger’s financial hardship
when presenting and arranging the second loan with Plaintiffs’ agents EWL and Suddarth.
 (4AC ¶23.)  Plaintiffs allege the failure of Hightechlending’s
employee, Edith, to disclose the material information concerning Hedger’s
financial hardship and likely inability to repay the loan constituted a
material concealment and misrepresentation exposing Plaintiffs to undisclosed
risk known by Hightechlending, Edith, and Greg which was a substantial factor
and cause of the foreseeable harm suffered by Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶23.)
Plaintiffs allege EWL, as agents for Plaintiffs, hired two
licensed California real estate appraisers, Gramlich and AAMC in 2017 and Varon
and Next Day in 2019, who failed to carefully and diligently view and
investigate the Calabasas Property and provide accurate reports indicating that
Calabasas Property would utilize an above ground septic system and was not
connected to a sewer system.  (4AC
¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege Gramlich, AAMC,
Varon, and Next Day owed a duty of care to EWL and Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege the false and erroneous valuation of the Calabasas
Property by Gramlich, AAMC, Varon, and Next Day materially impacted the
appraised valuation of the Calabasas Property causing an erroneous valuation of
$420,000 by Gramlich and AAMC and then $450,000 by Varon and Next Day when in
fact the appraised value should have been $100,000 market value of the lots
that provided security for the money loaned by Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that Gramlich, AAMC, Varon,
and Next Day failed to view the property in person, were not familiar with the
specific location of the property and utilized pictures from a different
property.  (4AC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege but for the failure of
Suddarth, EWL, Varon, Gramlich, Next Day, AAMC, Greg, Edith, and
Hightechlending to utilize due care and diligence regarding the valuation of
the Calabasas Property, an accurate and non-deceptive investment opportunity
would have been presented to Plaintiffs. 
(4AC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege but
for Gramlich’s and Varon’s failure to perform a careful and diligent
investigation and appraisal of the Calabasas Property, Plaintiffs would have
been aware of the actual market value of the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, EWL, Gramlich, AAMC, Next Day, and Varon
knew Plaintiffs would reasonably rely on the false information provided by
Suddarth, EWL, Varon, Gramlich, Next Day, and AAMC regarding the valuation of
the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶25.)  
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendants demur to the
1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action in the 4AC on the basis the causes of
action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against Moving
Defendants, and each is uncertain. 
(Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (1st COA)
This Court previously overruled Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the 1st cause of action.  (8/18/23
Minute Order, pgs. 6-8 of 12.)  This
Court determined the demurrer was improper to determine the truth of dispute
facts and inferences.  (CrossTalk
Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 635.) 
Accordingly,
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the 1st cause of action is overruled.
 
Negligence (2nd COA)
A cause of action for negligence
requires the following elements: (1) defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty;
(2) breached the duty; and (3) the breach caused (4) damages.  (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)  A complaint which lacks allegations of fact to
show that a legal duty of care was owed is fatally defective.  (See Jones v. Grewe (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 950.)  The existence of a legal duty of care is
properly challenged by demurrer and is a question of law for the court.  (Hegyes v. Unjian Enterprises, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1103,
1111.)
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, Next
Day, Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich failed to exercise due care in the investigation,
viewing, and opining regarding the market value of the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶37.)  Plaintiffs allege Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and
Gramlich created and distributed an inaccurate and erroneous appraisal report.  (4AC ¶37.) 
Plaintiffs allege it was reasonably foreseeable that the appraisal
report would be reviewed and reasonably relied on by persons and/or entities,
such as Plaintiffs, with interest in the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶37.) 

Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith,
and Hightechlending owed Plaintiffs and Plaintiff’s agents EWL and Suddarth a
legal duty of care pursuant to California Financing Law, as well as
other statutes and common law, because they clearly knew or should have known that Plaintiffs would reasonably
rely on the inaccurate, unverified, and misrepresented information that they
presented regarding their principal, Hedger. 
(4AC ¶40.)  Plaintiffs allege
Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending knew with substantial certainty that Plaintiffs
would rely to their detriment on the inaccurate, unverified, and misrepresented
financial information and documentation that Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending
prepared and disseminated.  (4AC ¶40.)
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and
Hightechlending owed a duty of care to Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ agents, EWL
and Suddarth, and is therefore liable for breaching the duty of care because
they knew the transaction would affect Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ agents, and
they knew that the harm to Plaintiffs was foreseeably connected to the
production of inaccurate, unverified, and misrepresented financial information
and documentation.  (4AC ¶40.)
Plaintiffs allege EWL, Suddarth,
Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending failed to exercise due care and diligence in
the vetting and investigation of Hedger regarding his suitability as a borrower
and risk as a borrower for investment purposes.  (4AC ¶41.) 
Plaintiffs allege they reasonably relied on the information provided by EWL
and Suddarth regarding the lending and investment opportunities.  (4AC ¶41.) 

Plaintiffs allege they were
harmed by the negligence of EWL, Suddarth, Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and
Gramlich.  (4AC ¶42.)  Plaintiffs allege the negligence of EWL,
Suddarth, Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiffs’ harm.  (4AC ¶43.)
This Court previously overruled
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the 2nd cause of action as to EWL, and thereby
overrules the demurrer as to EWL.
Plaintiffs fail to allege Greg
and Edith owed a cognizable duty to Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs merely allege Greg and Edith owe a duty under California
Financing Law and common law duties.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is sustained without leave to amend as to Greg and
Edith and overruled as to EWL.
 
Constructive Fraud, Negligent Misrepresentation, & Intentional
Misrepresentation (3rd, 4th, & 5th COAs)
The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action
for intentional misrepresentation, are: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; an (e) resulting damage.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  Fraud must be pleaded with
specificity: “general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.”  (Small v. Fritz Companies,
Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184, quoting Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at pg.
638.)
“Negligent misrepresentation
requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and the tortfeasor’s
lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be true. It also
requires the tortfeasor’s intent to induce reliance, justifiable reliance by
the person to whom the false assertion of fact was made, and damages to that
person. An implied assertion of fact is ‘not enough’ to support liability.”  (SI 59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154,
internal citation omitted.)
Constructive fraud “is a unique species of fraud applicable
only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.”  (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131, quoting Michel v. Moore &
Associates, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 756, 763.)  “Constructive fraud ‘arises on a breach of
duty by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another which
induces justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice.’ [Citation.]
Actual reliance and causation of injury must be shown. [Citation.]”  (Prakashpalan, 223 Cal.App.4th at pg.
1131, quoting Tyler v. Children’s Home Society (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th
511, 548; see also Younan v. Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 516
n.14 [elements of constructive fraud cause of action are “(1) a fiduciary or
confidential relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3)
intent to deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation)”].)
Plaintiffs’
allegations in 4AC ¶¶20-21 sufficiently allege misrepresentations by EWL’s
agent on EWL’s behalf.  However,
Plaintiffs fail to allege misrepresentations by Suddarth, Greg, and Edith with
the requisite specificity.  (See
4AC ¶¶22-23.)  The
specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the
case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the
persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar,
12 Cal.4th at pg. 645.)  Plaintiffs’
allegations in 4AC ¶¶22-23 are not sufficient to allege these causes of action
against Suddarth, Greg, and Edith.
Accordingly,
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action
are overruled as to EWL and sustained without leave to amend as to
Suddarth, Greg, and Edith.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 4AC is overruled as to the 1st cause of action; overruled as to the
2nd cause of action as to EWL and sustained without leave to amend as to Greg and Edith; overruled as
to the 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action as to EWL and sustained without
leave to amend as to Suddarth, Greg, and Edith.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.   
Motion to Strike
Summary of Motion
           Moving
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages.  (Notice of MTS, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§435, 436.)
 
           Punitive Damages 
Punitive damages may be
recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.  (Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to
cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
 “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights.  (Id.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury.  (Id.)  Conclusory allegations, devoid
of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that
parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege
causes of action for fraud against EWL. 
As such, Plaintiffs are entitled to their request for punitive damages
against EWL.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
motion to strike punitive damages against EWL is denied.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ motion to
strike punitive damages against EWL is denied and granted as to Greg, Edith,
and Suddarth.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  