 Case Number:  22STCV22258    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
July 11, 2022, Plaintiff Ebony Tay (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Neiman Marcus Group LLC, Doe 1, and Does
2-100 for premises liability, negligence, and negligent hiring, supervision,
and retention. 
On
August 8, 2022, Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as
Neiman Marcus Group LLC) (“Neiman”) filed an answer. 
On
December 29, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants The
Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc. as Doe 2 and The Neiman Marcus Group, LLC as Doe 3. 
On
January 25, 2024, Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group LLC f/k/a The Neiman Marcus
Group, Inc., improperly named as The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (Doe 2) and
Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group LLC f/k/a The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.,
improperly named as The Neiman Marcus Group, LLC (Doe 3) filed answers. 
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Lidija
Lilija as Doe 1. 
On
May 17, 2024, the Court appointed a discovery referee based on the parties’
stipulation. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 3, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On October
23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for terminating and/or evidentiary sanctions
and for monetary sanctions.  The motion was
set for hearing on December 17, 2024.  On December 4, 2024, Neiman filed an
opposition.  On December 10, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to impose terminating and/or evidentiary sanctions and monetary
sanctions on Neiman. 
Neiman
asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering
that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance
with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery
process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an
order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
“(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030.) 
B.   Production of expert for deposition 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.460 provides: 
“(a)  The
service of a proper deposition notice accompanied by the tender of the expert
witness fee described in Section 2034.430 is effective to require the party
employing or retaining the expert to produce the expert for the deposition. 
“(b) If the party noticing the deposition fails to
tender the expert’s fee under Section 2034.430, the expert shall not be deposed
at that time unless the parties stipulate otherwise.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.460.) 
C.   Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with
discovery orders 
A
violation of a discovery order may support the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (See Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (“Mileikowsky”).)  
DISCUSSION 
The
parties scheduled Dr. Prager’s deposition for February 6, 2024.  Plaintiff’s
counsel canceled the deposition based on Neiman’s counsel’s allegedly
unprofessional behavior during a January 29, 2024 deposition. 
On April
8, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to compel Dr. Prager’s deposition,
reasoning that Plaintiff’s counsel canceled Prager’s deposition and Plaintiff
had not presented any evidence showing that Plaintiff had attempted to
reschedule it.  The Court also appointed a
discovery referee under Code of Civil Procedure section 639, subdivision
(a)(5), to monitor all future depositions and make recommendations (including
sanctions recommendations) to the Court, with each party to pay a pro rata
share of the referee’s fee. 
On
May 17, 2024, based on the parties’ stipulation, the Court appointed Natasha
Roit, Esq., to serve as a discovery referee “for all discovery purposes.” 
On
July 22, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Dr. Prager’s deposition for September 10,
2024.  On September 3, 2024, Neiman
served objections to the deposition notice. On September 10, 2024, Neiman’s counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that
Dr. Prager would not appear at the deposition because Plaintiff had not tendered
Dr. Prager’s expert witness fee.  (See exh.
19.) 
Plaintiff
argues that she was not required to tender Dr. Prager’s expert witness fee
before the deposition.  Neiman does not
address this argument in its opposition. 
Instead, Neiman contends Dr. Prager was not required to attend the deposition because Neiman had not yet designated Dr. Prager as an expert, requiring Plaintiff to personally serve a deposition subpoena on Dr. Prager rather than the deposition notice which Plaintiff served on
Neiman. Yet Neiman did not cite the failure to personally serve a deposition subpoena on Dr. Prager in its
objections to the deposition notice. 
Moreover, Neiman did not raise this issue when it informed Plaintiff’s counsel on the day of the
deposition that Dr. Prager would not attend.   Instead,
Neiman’s counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Dr. Prager would not appear
for the deposition because he had not received expert witness fees.  But if (as Neiman now argues) Neiman had not
yet designated Dr. Prager as an expert witness, Dr. Prager was not entitled to
payment of expert witness fees.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.430, subd. (a) [witnesses designated as experts and
treating health care practitioners are entitled to expert witness fees].) 
The
Court finds that Neiman has engaged in a misuse of the discovery process by
asserting one reason for failing to produce Dr. Prager for a deposition on September
10, 2024 and asserting a different, and inconsistent, reason in its opposition
to Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions. 
The
Court concludes that this misuse of the discovery process entitles Plaintiff to
monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff requests $5,421.50
based $2,050.00 incurred for the court reporter and costs associated with the
attendance of the discovery referee at the deposition of Dr. Prager scheduled
for September 10, 2024, $60.00 in filing fees, 6.2 hours for counsel to engage
in meet and confer correspondence at a rate of $395.00, 1.5 hours for counsel
to prepare the moving papers at a rate of $970.00 per hour, and 4.7 hours for
counsel to prepare the moving papers at a rate of $395.00 per hour. 
The
Court awards Plaintiff $2,860.00 in sanctions based on the costs for the court
reporter and discovery referee, the filing fee, and three hours of attorney time at
a reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour.  In all other respects, the Court denies Plaintiff's motion. The Court denies Neiman's request for monetary sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion for terminating and/or
evidentiary sanctions and monetary sanctions. 
The Court orders Defendant The
Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as Neiman Marcus Group LLC) to pay
Plaintiff Ebony Tay $2,860.00  in monetary sanctions by January 16,
2025.  In all other respects, the Court
DENIES the motion.  The Court DENIES Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as Neiman Marcus Group LLC)'s request for monetary sanctions.
 Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.