 Case Number:  23STCV28522    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff Elly-Joy Shalome Kaushansky (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Alon West Hills, LLC, Alon Investment, Inc.,
Iris Shapiro, Doron Shauly, and Does 1-50 for breach of contract, breach of
implied warranty of habitability/tenantability, collection of rent on
substandard dwelling, breach of implied warranty of quiet enjoyment, negligence
(habitability), private nuisance, retaliatory acts, constructive eviction,
assault, battery, negligence (personal injury), intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
On
January 26, 2024, Defendants Alon West Hills, LLC, and Doron Shauly filed
answers. On February 9, 2024, Defendants Iris Shapiro and Alon Investment LLC
(erroneously sued as Alon Investment, Inc.) filed an answer. 
On October
30, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Steven Morris, Esq., filed a motion to be
relieved as counsel. The motion was set for hearing on December 17, 2024. On December
10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a declaration opposing the motion.  On December 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
filed a reply.  On December 16, 2024, Defendants
Iris Shapiro and Alon Investment LLC (erroneously sued as Alon Investment,
Inc.) (“Objecting Defendants”) filed an objection to Plaintiff’s declaration. 
Trial
is currently set for May 20, 2025. 
REQUESTS 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Steven Morris, Esq. asks to be relieved as counsel. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
Objecting
Defendants object to Plaintiff’s declaration, which Plaintiff did not serve on
them. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 284 provides: 
“The attorney in an action or special proceeding may
be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as
follows: 
1.             
“Upon the consent
of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 
2.             
“Upon the order
of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice
from one to the other.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 284.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service,
electronic service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
          “A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical
point and thereby prejudicing the client's case.”  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
904, 915.)  “We are, however, aware of no
authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when withdrawal
can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client's interests.”  (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel
has filed and served the required paperwork and provided the necessary
information to support the motion to be relieved as counsel. 
Plaintiff
states that her counsel’s withdrawal would impair her ability to seek justice.  However, Plaintiff also criticizes her counsel’s handling
of the case. 
The
Court finds that allowing Plaintiff’s counsel to withdraw will not unduly
prejudice Plaintiff’s interests because the trial is not scheduled to take
place until May 20, 2025. 
  The Court grants the motion.  The Court also cautions Plaintiff that the Court will not consider Plaintiff's future filings unless Plaintiff (1) properly serves the filing on the other parties who have appeared in the case and (2) files a proof of service. 
CONCLUSION
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s counsel Steven Morris, Esq.’s motion to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff Elly-Joy Shalome Kaushansky.  Plaintiff’s counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on Plaintiff Elly-Joy Shalome Kaushansky of the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council
form MC-053). 
Plaintiff’s
counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.