 Case Number:  19VECV01611    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  W almas &
son, llc v. nai capital, inc.
 
DEMURRER with
motion to strike the first amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        November
16, 2023              Trial
Date:       March
4, 2023 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        19VECV01611
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Patrick
Ortiz
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Almas & Son, LLC  
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Zampiello Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Almas & Son, LLC alleges
it entered into an agreement with Defendants Nai Capital, Inc. and Patrick
Ortiz where Defendants were to find Plaintiff a suitable tenant for their
commercial building. Plaintiff alleges Defendants represented to Plaintiff they
found a tenant who would run a legal smoke shop and ran a background check on
the tenant; however, these representations were false. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
did not run a background check and the tenant operated a cannabis shop in
violation of the agreement and as prohibited by the Department of Cannabis
Regulation. 
 
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint alleging: 1) Breach of Contract; 2) Fraud and Deceit;
3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4) Violation of Business and Professions Code
17200; and 5) Negligence.  
 
On February 7, 2020, Defendant NAI
Capital, Inc. filed Notice of Bankruptcy and Automatic Stay with the court. Matter
is only stayed as to Defendant NAI Capital, Inc. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Patrick Ortiz’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED, in part with leave to amend. Defendant Ortiz’s Motion to Strike is
GRANTED, with leave to amend. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant
Patrick Ortiz requests the court take judicial notice of Notice of Filing of Petition
for Relief Under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 USC Section
101, et seq., and Imposition of Automatic Stay filed on February 7. 2020 (Exh.
B) and Notice of Bar Date for Filing Proofs of Claim in Chapter 11 Case, filed
in United States Bankruptcy Case No. 1 :20-bk-l 0256 on June 20, 2020 (Exh. C).

 
The court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Patrick Ortiz demurs to the
First Amended Complaint and to each and every cause of action therein on the
grounds Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Defendant. 
 
Stay
 
Defendant Ortiz first argues Plaintiff’s
FAC was filed in violation of the bankruptcy automatic stay and is therefore,
subject to demurrer. 
 
The court disagrees. Plaintiff was
ordered to amend their complaint as to Defendant Ortiz and did such. Although
the action is stayed as to Defendant NAI, Plaintiff does not have to remove
their allegations containing NAI at this time. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendant Ortiz demurs to the first
cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds Plaintiff's failure to
attach a signed contract dooms the pleading. Instead, Plaintiff attaches an
unsigned letter, which fails to meet the elements of an enforceable contract. 
 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded by its
terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to
the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) “In order to
plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must allege the substance of
its relevant terms.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges on August 15, 2018,
Defendant Ortiz transmitted to Plaintiff a letter agreement whereby Defendants undertook
to act as Plaintiff’s agent and broker with respect to the listing of
Plaintiff’s commercial real property for lease. (FAC ¶9.) Pursuant to said
agreement, Defendants undertook to act as Plaintiff’s real estate agent and
broker respecting the listing. (FAC ¶9.) Moreover, implied in the agreement was
to act in the highest faith to their client. (FAC ¶10.) Plaintiff further
alleges they asked whether Defendant Ortiz had done a background check on
Bugarin, to which Defendant Ortiz responded, both orally and in writing, that
he followed the standard protocol and rules in entering into the lease with
Bugarin. (FAC ¶12.) Defendants breached the written agreement by committing
acts which are alleged in paragraph. (FAC ¶23.) 
 
Plaintiff does not address this
argument. Moreover, although the complaint references an attached agreement,
there is no agreement attached to the complaint on file with the court. It is
still unclear how Defendant breached the agreement, when no terms of the
agreement are alleged and the agreement is not attached to the complaint. Plaintiff
is given one more opportunity to attempt to allege a breach of contract against
Ortiz. If Plaintiff is attempting to allege Defendant breached the agreement
that they would do a background check, Plaintiff must allege so. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Ortiz’s demurrer
to the first cause of action for breach of contract is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Causation/Damages
 
Next, Defendant Ortiz argues Plaintiffs
allegations of causation and damages relied on in each of its causes of action
fail to meet the standards to state claims for relief or to establish that it
has suffered any cognizable damages. Defendant Ortiz further argues Plaintiff
has not even sought to name the tenant, Mr. Bugarin, as a defendant in this
matter. 
 
The court previously found the
allegations failed to include how Plaintiff has been damaged by the purported
misrepresentations or breach of fiduciary duty. Plaintiff amended their
complaint to now allege Almas & Sons, LLC’s owner, Mr. Dayani, was
subsequently convicted of the above criminal code section as a result of the
Defendants misconduct. (FAC ¶16.) Plaintiff further alleges as a result of
Defendant Ortiz’s conduct, they have suffered in lost income and rent as well
as expenses relating to unlawful detainer and criminal proceedings.
 
Mr. Dayani is not a named Plaintiff in
this matter and Plaintiff does not allege Almas & Sons, LLC was also
subject to fines. However, the court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
damages by alleging as a result of Defendant Ortiz’s fraudulent statements,
negligence, breach of fiduciary duty and violation of Business and Profession
Code 17200, Plaintiff incurred expenses relating to the tenancy, lost income
and rentals. 
 
The court OVERRULES the demurrer on
these grounds. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant seeks to strike Paragraphs
33, 38 and Plaintiff’s Prayer, Second and Third Causes of Action Paragraph 1 on
the grounds Plaintiffs Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages against Defendant.
 
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” “‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id. §
3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ.
Code § 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to defendant with the intention on the
part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged facts supporting a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff
has not alleged Ortiz sought to intentionally deprive Plaintiff of their legal
rights or otherwise injure Plaintiff and moreover, has not alleged Ortiz acted
with the intent to vex, injure, or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the Plaintiff's
rights.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 