 Case Number:  23VECV02839    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  W TRACEY PETERSON V. MASIS KHACHADOURIAN
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR A DISCOVERY PROTECTIVE ORDER AND
FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $750.00
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 16, 2023                          Trial
Date:       None
set 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV02839
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Masis Khachadourian and
Forgiato, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Tracey Peterson 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises out of a motor vehicle collision. Plaintiff Tracey Peterson
alleges Defendant Masis Khachadourian negligently drove his vehicle,
accelerating through a red light causing their vehicles to collide. On June 29,
2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendants’ Motion for a Discovery Protective Order
and Monetary Sanctions in the amount of $750 is DENIED. 
 
discusion
 
Defendants Masis Khachadourian and Forgiato, Inc. move
this court for a protective order against Plaintiff’s Request for Documents
1-58 (Set One) and Notice of Deposition of Masis Khachadourian with Request for
Documents 1-51 propounded against Defendant Khachadourian as well as Plaintiff’s
Request for Documents 1-58 (Set One) and Notice of Remote Deposition of
Forgiato’s PMK propounded against Defendant Forgiato, Inc. Furthermore, Defendants
request that the depositions of both Defendants Masis Khachadourian and Forgiato,
Inc. PMK be continued until after the hearing on the instant motion for
protective order scheduled for November 16, 2023. Defendants contend the discovery
propounded by Plaintiff’s counsel is unduly burdensome and harassing, seeking
duplicative and cumulative questions in excess of the allowable number that could
have been sought in discovery as provided by Code.
 
A court may make any order that justice requires to
protect a party from “unwanted annoyance, embarrassment or oppression or undue
burden and expense.”  (CCP §2030.090(b).)  The burden of proof
is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for the order
he or she seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  A motion for a protective order “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP
§2030.090.)  “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall
state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (CCP
§2016.040.)   
 
Meet and Confer
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants’ attempt
to meet and confer falls woefully short of a good faith attempt at an informal
resolution as required by the Code and should therefore be denied. Defendants
sent two letters demanding to limit the requests for production to 35, none of
which is a requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010.
 
Defendants contend the meet and confer letter was
not a demand in the form of an ultimatum, but rather, an invitation to
Plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer to discuss the relief requested, i.e.,
to pare down Plaintiff’s requests to the relevant requests for gaining the
information that it reasonably needs for a simple and minor motor vehicle
accident. 
 
Whether or not the parties properly attempted an
informal resolution to the matter, the court finds the parties cannot come to
an agreement on the issues at hand. Accordingly, the court does not deny the
motion on these grounds.   
 
Discussion
 
Defendants argue this is a simple motor vehicle
accident. As such, there is no reason to require Defendants to respond to the
39 special interrogatories, 51/58 requests for documents and 32 requests for
admissions when in fact the majority of the 39 special interrogatories and
51/58 requests for documents were duplicative.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues they propounded
proper document requests on each named Defendant regarding the subject
accident. Plaintiff’s discovery is specific and tailored to address the
elements Plaintiff needs to prove for liability. 
 
Plaintiff further argues Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.010 imposes no restriction as to the number of requests which may
be propounded. Further, Defendants’ claim that “220 demands” have been made
encompasses two named Defendants, by means of discovery requests and document
requests in a notice for deposition. Technically, only 58 document requests
were propounded on each party.
 
First, the court notes Plaintiff may request the
same documents in the request for production of documents as the notice of
deposition as they are different modes of discovery. (See Carter v. Superior
Court (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 994, 997.) Second, the court finds Defendant
has not presented good cause for limiting the discovery requests to 35 or less.
While this may be a “minor injury accident” as Defendants claim, the court
finds the 51/58 demands for production along with the 39 interrogatories and 32
requests for admissions not so overly burdensome. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for protective order
is DENIED. The court denies Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions. 