  Case Number:  22STCV15366    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







BRENT EVANS, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
SOPHIA JIN, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV15366




Hearing Date:


January 4, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER
  RE: 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES TO
  FIRST SET OF SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (re: BRENT EVANS); 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES TO
  FIRST SET OF SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (re: STYLE SQUARED, LLC)



 
Background
Plaintiffs
Brent Evans (“Evans”) and Style Squared, LLC (“Style Squared”) (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action on May 9, 2022 against Defendants Sophia Jin
and Colorish, LLC dba Indigo Rose. 
Plaintiffs
filed the operative First Amended Complaint on April 3, 2023, alleging causes
of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of contract, and (4) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
On
June 2, 2023, Colorish, LLC (“Colorish”) served Special Interrogatories, Set One,
on Evans and Style Squared. (Bell Decls., ¶ 2, Exs. 1-2.) Colorish states that
the due date for the responses was July 5, 2023. (Bell Decls., ¶ 3.) As of the
filing of Colorish’s counsel’s declarations in support of instant motions,
Colorish’s counsel had not received any responses to the Special
Interrogatories, Set One served on Evans and Style Squared. (Bell Decls., ¶ 5.)

Colorish’s
counsel notes that on November 8, 2023, Colorish filed an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) Statement in advance of a November 15, 2023 IDC.
(Bell Decls., ¶ 11, Exs. 6.) Colorish’s November 8, 2023 IDC Statement states, inter
alia, that “Defendants served…1st special interrogatories (2
sets) on June 2, 2023. Plaintiffs failed to respond at all, requested no
extension…” (Ibid.) On November 15, 2023, an IDC was held in this
matter. (Bell Decls., ¶ 12.) The Court’s November 15, 2023 minute order
provides, inter alia, “[i]n open court, the Informal Discovery
Conference is held. The discovery issues were not resolved.” 
Colorish
now moves for an order compelling Evans to respond to Colorish’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, served on him on June 2, 2023, without
objection. Colorish also moves for an order compelling Style Squared to respond
to Colorish’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, served on it on June 2,
2023, without objection. Colorish seeks monetary sanctions in connection with
each of the motions. The motions are unopposed.[1] 
Discussion
Pursuant
to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (b), “[i]f a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply:…(b) The
party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response
to the interrogatories.” In addition, “[i]f a party to whom interrogatories are directed
fails to serve a timely response…(a) The party to whom
the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to
produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as
any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on
the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).)  
The Court
finds that the evidence demonstrates that Evans and Style Squared did not timely
serve responses to the subject
Special Interrogatories, Set One served on them. As set forth above, the instant motions are unopposed.
Thus, Evans and Style Squared have not provided any evidence demonstrating that
they responded to the subject Special Interrogatories, Set One. Therefore, the
Court finds that Colorish is entitled to an order compelling responses, without objections, to Colorish’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One served on Evans. In addition, the Court finds that Colorish is
entitled to an order compelling responses, without objections, to
Colorish’s Special Interrogatories, Set One served on Style Squared. 
Lastly, Colorish
requests monetary sanctions against Evans and his counsel, jointly and
severally, in connection with the motion pertaining to Evans. In addition, Colorish
requests monetary sanctions against Style Squared and its counsel, jointly and
severally, in connection with the motion pertaining to Style Squared. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction…against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Emphasis added.) Because
the instant motions are unopposed, the Court denies Colorish’s requests for
sanctions in connection with the motions. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Colorish’s
motions are granted. 
The Court orders Evans to
serve complete verified responses, without objections, to Colorish’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One within 30 days of notice of this order. 
The Court orders Style
Squared to serve complete verified responses, without objections, to Colorish’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One within 30 days of notice of this order. 
Colorish’s requests for
monetary sanctions are denied. 
///
///
Colorish is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  January 4, 2024                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


