 Case Number:  23STCV14805    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



BRYAN DIAZ,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RINGLOGIX, LLC d/b/a RINGLOGIX.COM, 
 
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


23STCV14805




Hearing Date:


January 4, 2024




Hearing Time:


 10:00
  a.m.




 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT
  RINGLOGIX, LLC’S MOTION TO QUASH FOR LACK OF JURISDICTION



 
Background
Plaintiff Bryan Diaz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 26, 2023
against Defendant Ringlogix, LLC dba Ringlogix.Com. The original Complaint
alleged causes of action for (1) “California Unauthorized Access to Computer
Data Act,” (2) “California Invasion of Privacy Act,” (3) “California Invasion
of Privacy,” (4) “intrusion upon seclusion,” and (5) “publication of private
information.”
Ringlogix, LLC
(“Ringlogix”), specially appearing, previously moved “to quash the summons for
lack of personal jurisdiction.” On October 17, 2023, the Court issued a minute
order providing, inter alia, that “the Court will continue the
hearing on the instant motion to allow Plaintiff to conduct discovery on
jurisdictional issues.” (October 17, 2023 Minute Order
at p. 9.) The Court’s October 17, 2023 minute order further indicates that
“the Court continues the hearing on Ringlogix’s motion to quash to January 18,
2024 at 10:00 a.m. Plaintiff may conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues
only. Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition to the instant motion and
Ringlogix may file a supplemental reply.” 
(Ibid.) 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). 
The
FAC alleges one cause of action for “California Invasion of Privacy Act.” In
the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]o learn the identity of Visitors to its
website at www.ringlogix.com (the ‘Website’) and monetize its knowledge of
those visitors’ activities, Defendant has secretly deployed spyware that
accesses visitor devices, installs tracking software, and tracks visitor
browsing habits. Plaintiff visited Defendant’s website in 2023. Without
Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent, Defendant secretly accessed Plaintiff’s
device and installed ‘pen register’ and ‘trap and trace’ tracking software in
violation of California law.” (FAC, p. 2:2-7.) 
Ringlogix, specially
appearing, now moves “to quash the summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.” Ringlogix asserts that “[t]he
Court should quash the summons and First Amended Complaint for lack of personal
jurisdiction because Plaintiff has not, and cannot, establish that Ringlogix
has sufficient minimum contacts with California or that his claims arise from
Ringlogix’s contacts with the state.” (Mot. at p. 16:18-21.) Plaintiff
opposes.  
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice. 
Discussion
Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter,
Ringlogix asserts that Plaintiff’s opposition was served two days late and
should be disregarded. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), “[a]ll papers opposing
a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each
party at least nine court days, and all reply papers at least five court days
before the hearing.” Nine court days prior to the January 4, 2024 hearing date
is December 20, 2023. Plaintiff’s opposition was filed on December 20, 2023, and
the proof of service attached the opposition indicates that it was served by
electronic service on December 20, 2023. However, under ¿Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(B)¿,
“[a]ny¿period of notice, or any right or duty to
do any act or make any response within any period or on a date certain after
the service of the document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute
or rule of court, shall be extended after service by electronic means by two
court days.” (Emphasis added.) As noted by Ringlogix, eleven court days before January
4, 2024 is December 18, 2023. Because Ringlogix has submitted a
substantive reply brief that address the arguments made in Plaintiff’s
opposition, the Court elects to exercise its discretion to consider
the untimely opposition.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1300, subd. (d).)
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10 provides in part: “A defendant, on
or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that
the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion … (1)
To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).) 
“California
courts may exercise jurisdiction on any basis that is not inconsistent with the
state and federal Constitutions. Thus, the inquiry in California is whether the
assertion of personal jurisdiction comports with the limits imposed by federal
due process.” ((Young v. Daimler AG (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 855, 865 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) Due process
permits courts to exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have
“minimum contact” with the forum state such that the exercise of jurisdiction
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Int’l Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” ((Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) “A
defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the
forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning
jurisdiction on any cause of action.” ((HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) 
A nonresident may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong
test is met. “First, the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the
state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of
the defendant’s contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s
contacts with the state and other factors, California’s exercise of
jurisdiction over the defendant must comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” ((Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1568 [internal
citations and emphasis omitted].) “When a defendant moves to quash
service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of
jurisdiction. Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are
established, however, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” ((Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449 [internal citations omitted].)
General Jurisdiction 
Ringlogix asserts
that it is not subject to general jurisdiction in California. In support of the
motion, Ringlogix submits
the Declaration of Alberto Diaz,
Ringlogix’s Chief Executive Officer. (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Diaz states
that “Ringlogix is Florida limited liability company with its principal
place of business in Miami Lakes, Florida, and its sole member is Ringlogix,
Inc. Ringlogix, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware, and its principal place of
business is in Miami Lakes, Florida.”
(Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 2.) “Ringlogix is a business to business Voice
over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service provider whose platform allows a range of
corporate customers to sell, provision, bill, and support their own branded
VoIP services to their customers.” (Alberto
Diaz Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Diaz states that “Ringlogix has never physically
operated in California and has no offices or property in California,” and that
“[n]one of Ringlogix’s employees reside in California.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Mr. Diaz also states that “[a]pproximately
10% of Ringlogix’s total revenue is generated from California. No revenue is
generated from Ringlogix’s website, as it is not possible to purchase products
or services via Ringlogix’s website.”
(Alberto Diaz Decl, ¶ 7.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff does not appear to dispute Ringlogix’s assertion that Ringlogix is
not subject to general jurisdiction in California. 
 
Specific Jurisdiction 
            As set forth above, a nonresident
may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. “First,
the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the state’s benefits.
Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s
contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the
state and other factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the
defendant must comport with fair play and substantial justice.” ((Gilmore
Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd.,
supra, at p. 1568 [internal citations and emphasis omitted].)
Ringlogix asserts that “Plaintiff
has made no plausible allegation that Ringlogix purposefully directed its
activities at or targeted California.”
(Mot. at p. 12:10-11.) “The
purposeful availment inquiry…focuses on the defendant’s intentionality. This prong is only satisfied when the
defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs his activities toward the forum
so that he should expect, by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be subject
to the court’s jurisdiction based on his contacts with the forum. Thus,
the purposeful availment requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled
into a jurisdiction solely as a result of random, fortuitous, or attenuated
contacts, or of the unilateral activity of another party or a third person.” 
((Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002)
29 Cal.4th 262, 269 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
The Pavlovich Court found that “[n]ot
surprisingly, the so-called Internet revolution has spawned a host of new legal
issues as courts have struggled to apply traditional legal frameworks to this
new communication medium. Today, we join this struggle and consider the
impact of the Internet on the determination of personal jurisdiction. In this
case, a California court exercised personal jurisdiction over a defendant based
on a posting on an Internet Web site. Under the particular facts of this case,
we conclude the court’s exercise of jurisdiction was improper.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 266.) The Pavlovich Court further noted that “[a]lthough we have never
considered the scope of personal jurisdiction based solely on Internet
use, other courts have considered this issue, and most have adopted a sliding
scale analysis. At one end of the spectrum are situations where a defendant
clearly does business over the Internet. If the defendant enters into contracts
with residents of a foreign jurisdiction that involve the knowing and repeated
transmission of computer files over the Internet, personal jurisdiction is
proper. At the opposite end are situations where a defendant has simply posted
information on an Internet Web site which is accessible to users in foreign
jurisdictions. A passive Web site that does little more than make information
available to those who are interested in it is not grounds for the exercise
[of] personal jurisdiction. The middle ground is occupied by interactive Web sites where a
user can exchange information with the host computer. In these cases, the
exercise of jurisdiction is determined by examining the level of interactivity
and commercial nature of the exchange of information that occurs on the Web
site.” (Id. at p. 274 [internal quotations and
references to [Citation.]
omitted.) 
Ringlogix asserts that “Plaintiff
cannot establish personal jurisdiction based on his access of the Website
because he alleges nothing about its interactivity.” (Mot. at p. 13:11-12.) Ringlogix contends that “[b]esides
declaring in his unverified FAC that the Website can operate as a ‘gateway’ to
sales” FAC ¶ 2)—which is not true—the FAC includes no facts showing that the
Website does anything more than ‘make information available to those who are
interested in’ Ringlogix’s services.” (Mot. at p. 13:12-14.) Paragraph 2 of Plaintiff’s FAC
alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff believes that Defendant
generates a minimum of eight percent of revenues from its website based upon
interactions with Californians (including instances in which the website
operates as a ‘gateway’ to sales), such that the website ‘is the equivalent of
a physical store in California.’” (FAC, ¶ 2.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that Ringlogix’s website “offers interactive features and is
highly commercial.” (Opp’n at p. 9:27.) In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[t]he website at https://www.ringlogix.com (the
‘Website’) offers a ‘STAY IN THE KNOW’ pop-up window when a user visits the
homepage of the Website, which invites the user to input the user’s email
address in order to subscribe to Defendant’s online blog.”  (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff’s
counsel further states that “[t]he Website’s homepage invites users to
‘Contact us for a Test Drive’ and ‘Request Demo’ by inviting users to input the
user’s full name, email address, company name, and phone number.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[t]he Website’s homepage has a ‘Request Demo’
button and hyperlink on the top right hand corner of the Website, which, if
clicked, takes the user to the landing page at:
https://www.ringlogix.com/request-a-demo-white-label-voip-platform, which invites
users to ‘Request Demo’ by inviting users to input the user’s full name, email
address, company name, and phone number.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) Lastly, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[t]he
Website’s homepage has a “Contact” hyperlink in the bottom footer, which, if
clicked, takes the user to a landing page at:
https://www.ringlogix.com/contact-us/, which invites users to input the user’s
name, email address, company name, and message.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4.) 
However, as noted by
Ringlogix, “none of the features that Plaintiff claims evidence the
Website’s interactivity are features that Plaintiff used…” (Reply at p.
7:22-23.) Rather, Plaintiff
states in his declaration in support of the opposition that “[i]n 2023,
I visited the website at https://www.ringlogix.com...and watched a certain
video.” (Bryan Diaz Decl., ¶ 2.)  
Ringlogix also cites to Jacqueline B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th
243, 254, where the “Defendants
did not purposefully direct any activities toward California residents. At
most, the law firm operated a website that could be accessed by California
residents, but the website did not target California residents specifically and
it was plaintiff who first contacted defendants.” The Jacqueline B. Court found
that “the fact that plaintiff herself had to reach out to the firm
directly confirms the minimal interactivity of the website.” (Id. at p. 255 [emphasis in original].) 
Plaintiff
also asserts in the opposition that “Defendant has admitted to engaging in
economic activity within California.” (Opp’n at p. 12:25-26.) Plaintiff cites to As You Sow v. Crawford
Labs. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1859, 1870, where the Court of Appeal noted
that “[a]n enterprise obtains the benefits and protection of our laws
if as a matter of commercial reality it
has engaged in economic activity within this state…” (Internal quotations
omitted.) The As You Sow Court found that “[a]lthough Crawford did
not send any employees to California to negotiate the contracts, it does not
deny contracting directly with private distributors located in California.
Thus, unlike its contracts with the G.S.A., Crawford purposefully consummated
business arrangements with California companies on 16 separate occasions so it
could profit from the products’ use in California. Such contact constituted
economic activity within California as a
matter of commercial actuality.” (Id. at p. 1871
[internal quotations omitted].) 
Plaintiff
notes that Alberto Diaz states in
his supporting declaration that “[a]pproximately 10% of Ringlogix’s
total revenue is generated from California.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 7.) Alberto
Diaz also states that “[a]pproximately 11% of Ringlogix’s customer base is
located in California.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff asserts that accordingly, “Defendant’s
evidence sufficiently shows that Defendant has solicited and transacted
business with Californians in such a substantial manner such that its marketing
efforts via its Website directed towards California consumers (or businesses)
should not be treated as ‘random, fortuitous, or attenuated’ contacts for
purposes of the purposeful direction analysis.” (Opp’n at p. 15:25-28.) But noted by Ringlogix in the motion,
Plaintiff does not claim that he purchased anything from Ringlogix’s website. As set forth above, Ringlogix
provides evidence that “[n]o revenue is generated from Ringlogix’s
website, as it is not possible to purchase products or services via Ringlogix’s
website.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 7.) As discussed, under the second prong of
the specific jurisdiction analysis, “the controversy must be related to or
arise out of the defendant’s contacts with the state.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568 [emphasis
in original].)  
In the
opposition, Plaintiff contends that his “claims arise out of Defendant’s forum
related activities” because “[i]f Defendant had not engaged in the
alleged wrongdoing at issue herein via its Website made available to California
residents, Plaintiff’s claims would not have arisen.” (Opp’n at p. 18:3; 18:4-6.) Plaintiff references Ringlogix’s “alleged
wrongdoing,” but the Court notes that “¿[o]n a challenge
to personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, the¿factual bases justifying the exercise of
jurisdiction. The plaintiff must come forward with affidavits and other
competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot
simply rely on allegations in an unverified complaint. If the plaintiff meets
this burden, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate
that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.¿” (¿ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 198, 209-210 [internal
quotations and citations omitted]¿.)
Plaintiff alternatively requests a continuance to conduct
jurisdictional discovery. “¿A trial court
has discretion to continue the hearing on a motion to quash service of summons
for lack of personal jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery
on jurisdictional issues.¿” (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 30¿; ¿see also Magnecomp Corp. v.
Athene Co. (1989) 209
Cal.App.3d 526, 533¿, “¿[When]
jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is
upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that minimum contacts exist between defendant
and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction. The
plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of
jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.”¿ [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
In his opposition to the
instant motion, Plaintiff argues that “[a]lthough Defendant contends that ‘it
is not possible to make a purchase on the Website,’ (Def.’s Mem. at 9:12-13),
it is beyond dispute that Defendant uses its Website as a significant marketing
channel to attract customers. Pavlovich makes it relevant to know
precisely how successful of a marketing channel the Website has become for
Defendant in marketing and potentially obtaining Californians as customers.
Plaintiff is entitled to conduct jurisdictional discovery as to the foregoing
topics especially because Defendant has confirmed that ‘[a]pproximately 11% of
Ringlogix’s customer base is located in California,’ (Diaz Decl. ¶ 8), and
‘[a]pproximately 10% of Ringlogix’s total revenue is generated from
California,’ (Diaz Decl. ¶ 7).” (Opp’n at p. 16:4-12.) 
In the reply, Ringlogix states,
inter alia, that Alberto Diaz, Ringlogix’s PMK, testified that Ringlogix
does not target its marketing to California or any other location. (Reply at p.
10:14-15, citing Diaz Tr. at 30:3-8.) The Court notes that Plaintiff has not
had the opportunity to address the evidence submitted by Ringlogix for the
first time in connection with the reply. 

As set forth above, the Court
issued a minute order on October 17, 2023 continuing the hearing on Ringlogix’s
previous motion to January 18, 2024 to allow Plaintiff to conduct
discovery on jurisdictional issues. As discussed in the Court’s October 17,
2023 minute order, “[a] plaintiff attempting to assert
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is entitled to an opportunity
to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain its
burden of proof.¿In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for
jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is
likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.¿” (¿In re Automobile Antitrust Cases
I & II (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 100, 127 [internal citation omitted, emphasis added]¿.) 
In
his supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Plaintiff
has sought to conduct jurisdictional discovery upon Defendant in this action
including the PMK deposition of Defendant’s corporate designee since October
18, 2023, which is when Plaintiff served Defendant with a PMK deposition notice
via email in this action.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel states
that “[o]n December 14, 2023, I conducted the PMK deposition of Defendant in
this action, but I adjourned such deposition because Defendant refused to
answer some of my critical questions with substantive responses because of
confidentiality concerns.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff’s counsel indicates
that the parties could not reach an agreement as to the terms of a protective
order. (Ferrell Decl., ¶¶ 9-12.) Plaintiff asserts that he “will likely need to
move to compel Defendant to provide full and straightforward responses in order
to obtain relevant information crucial to the issue of specific jurisdiction,”
and that “[t]he Court should defer ruling on the instant Motion until after the
foregoing discovery dispute is resolved.” (Opp’n at p. 17:9-12.) In the reply,
Ringlogix asserts, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s request for a further
continuance should be denied for the sole reason that Ringlogix agreed to
provide the specific revenue and customer count figures he requested subject to
a protective order with an attorneys-eyes only designation. Guyon Decl. ¶ 6.”
(Reply at p. 11:6-8.) As discussed, Plaintiff has not had the opportunity to
address the evidence submitted by Ringlogix for the first time in connection
with the reply.  
Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court is
inclined to permit a continuance of the hearing on the instant motion to allow Plaintiff to conduct discovery on
jurisdictional issues.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on Ringlogix’s instant motion to quash to ________________ at 10:00
a.m. Plaintiff may conduct discovery
on jurisdictional issues only. Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition to
the instant motion and Ringlogix may file a supplemental reply. Any
supplemental opposition and reply papers must be filed and served per ¿Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b)¿ based on the new hearing date. 
The Court also notes that in light of the fact that
Plaintiff filed the operative FAC, Ringlogix’s previous motion to quash filed
on August 11, 2023 appears to be moot. The Court notes that in its August 11,
2023 motion, Ringlogix
asserts, inter alia, that “[t]he Court should quash the
summons on Ringlogix for lack of jurisdiction and dismiss the Complaint without
leave to amend.” (August 11, 2023 Mot. at p. 7:9-10.) As discussed, the FAC is
the operative pleading in this action. The Court notes that “[a]n amendatory pleading
supersedes the original one, which ceases to perform any function as a
pleading. The amended complaint furnishes the sole basis for the cause of
action, and the original complaint ceases to have any effect either as a
pleading or as a basis for judgment…Because there is but one complaint in a
civil action…the filing of an amended complaint moots a motion directed to a
prior complaint.” ((JKC3H8 v. Colton (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 468, 477 [internal
quotations and citations omitted]) Thus,
the Court vacates the January 18, 2024 hearing on Ringlogix’s previous August
11, 2023 motion. 
Ringlogix is
ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  January 4, 2024                                                                              
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet 
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court