 Case Number:  21BBCV00861    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENTI.        INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs Julio Santos Mayorga; Heidy Santos Soto;
Elisama Santos Soto, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem, Julio Santos Mayorga;
and Ruth Santos Soto, by and through by Guardian Ad Litem, Julio Santos Mayorga
("Plaintiffs") filed suit against Defendant 7055 Coldwater Canyon
Avenue, LLC (Coldwater), alleging that Plaintiffs were tenants in the property
located at 7051 Coldwater Canyon Avenue, #8, North Hollywood, California, owned
by Coldwater. Plaintiffs allege that the property had numerous
habitability issues during their tenancy, includes leaks, flooding, mold, pest
infestations, faulty electrical fittings, lack of heat, and other issues.
Plaintiff’s complaint against Coldwater, filed September
23, 2021, alleged 5 causes of action: (1) Breach of Warranty of Habitability;
(2) Negligent Maintenance of Premises; (3) Nuisance; (4) Breach of Quiet
Enjoyment; and (5) IIED. In October 2021, Defendant Shind, LLC (Shind) purchased
the property from Coldwater. In April 2022, Plaintiffs filed their first
amended complaint, which added Shind as a Defendant and alleged four additional
causes of action: (6) Violations of Unruh Civil Rights Act; (7) Violations of
California Anti-Harassment Statute; (8) Retaliation; and (9) Unfair
Competition. Plaintiffs alleged that after the filing of this lawsuit, Shind initiated
eviction proceedings against Plaintiffs in retaliation.  Plaintiffs also allege that Shind harassed
and discriminated against Plaintiffs based, at least in part, on their Latinx
heritage. Several of these causes of action subject Shind to possible punitive
damages.  
On January 29, 2024, Plaintiffs and Coldwater
entered into a settlement agreement in which Coldwater agreed to pay Plaintiffs
$100,000 as follows: $47,500 to Julio
Santos Mayorga, $47,500 to Heidy Santos Soto, $2,500 to Elisama Santos Soto and
$2,500 to Ruth Santos Soto. Before the
Court is a motion to determine the good faith of this settlement. This
motion was filed by Plaintiffs on February 27, 2024. Shind filed an opposition
on April 17, 2024. Plaintiffs filed a reply on April 22, 2024. The motion was
continued on May 1, 2024, for further briefing. Plaintiffs submitted their
further brief on May 8, 2024. Defendant Coldwater’s counsel submitted a declaration
on May 20, 2024. Shind submitted their reply on May 21, 2024.
          II.      LEGAL STANDARD
          Plaintiffs move for an order finding that the settlement
between Plaintiffs and Coldwater was made in good faith pursuant to CCP §§ 877
and 877.6. Coldwater’s counsel has submitted a declaration in support of
Plaintiff’s position.  
"[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to
establish a statutory procedure for determining if a settlement by an alleged
joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith and to provide a bar to
claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial
or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown." IRM Corp. v. Carlson
(1986) 179 Cal. App. 3d 94, 104.
CCP
§ 877.6(a)(1) provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, "[a]ny
party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff … and
one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors …." "A determination
by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other
joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling
tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative
fault." CCP § 877.6(c). Although a determination that a settlement was in
good faith does not discharge any other party from liability, "it shall
reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated" by the
settlement. CCP § 877(a).
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499,
the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors
courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under
section 877.6: "a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and
the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a
settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable
after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions
and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants."
The
evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to
"be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement." Tech-Bilt, 38 Cal.3d at 499. "'[A] defendant's
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's
liability to be.' [Citation.]" Id. at 499.
"The
party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that
issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that
the settlement is so far 'out of the ballpark' in relation to these factors as
to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. Such a
demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
'settlement made in good faith' within the terms of section 877.6."
Tech-Bilt, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.
"Thus,
Tech-Bilt held that in determining whether a settlement was made in good faith
for purposes of section 877.6, a key factor a trial court should consider is
whether the amount paid in settlement bears a reasonable relationship to the
settlor's proportionate share of liability. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp.
499-500 ….) This is because one of the main goals of section 877.6 is
'allocating costs equitably among multiple tortfeasors.' (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38
Cal.3d at p. 502 ….)." TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 159, 166. "Accordingly, a court not only looks at
the alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also
consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to
be responsible for the same injury. Potential liability for indemnity to a
nonsettling defendant is an important consideration for the trial court in
determining whether to approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.
[Citation.]" Id. at 166.          
III.     ANALYSIS
The
first question this Court must address is whether Coldwater and Shind are “joint
tortfeasors” or “co-obligors” within the meaning of section 877.6(a)(1).  If one takes these terms to mean
co-defendants in the same action, then they likely are.  However, the law defines the term “joint tortfeasor”
more narrowly.  As stated by the court in
Commercial Standard Title Co. v. Superior Court (1979) 92 Cal. App. 3d 934: “By
definition, joint tortfeasors are jointly and severally liable for the entire
damage proximately resulting.”  (See also
Black’s Law Dictionary: “Joint tortfeasors are parties that either commit the
wrong together or, if done independently, their acts unite to cause one injury.”)
 “Co-obligor” has generally been defined
as “a party who is bound with one or more others to fulfill an obligation under
a contract.”
Coldwater
and Shind’s potential liability stem from different acts and different time periods.
The demarcation point is the October 2021 sale of the property, with Coldwater’s
potential liability preceding that event and Shind’s potential liability
following that event.  Plaintiffs’
Counsel argues that, under Civil Code section 823, Shind, as Coldwater’s
successor-in-interest, is also liable for Coldwater’s conduct before the sale
of the property. However, there are two problems with this argument. First, the
statute is permissive, not mandatory.  “Whatever
remedies the lessee of any real property may have against his immediate
lessor, for the breach of any agreement in the lease, he may have
against the assigns of the lessor….” (Emphasis added.)  Furthermore, this argument is not supported
factually. Whether Shind assumed Coldwater’s liability would likely depend upon
the language of the purchase agreement between the parties.[1]
While
causes of action 1 through 5 apply to both defendants, albeit for different
time periods, causes of action 6 through 9 appear to apply solely to Shind. A
compelling argument can be made that these defendants share no joint and
several liability whatsoever. Coldwater’s
liability begins either three or four years prior to the filing of this case,
depending on the particular cause of action’s limitations period. Coldwater’s potential
liability would appear to end on the date the property was sold. Shind’s potential
liability begins on the day it assumed ownership of the property. If so, then Coldwater and Shind are not “joint
tortfeasors” or “co-obligors” within the meaning of section 877.6(a)(1).  As such, the good faith settlement rules set
forth in section 877.6 simply do not apply.
As
noted above, one of the primary goals of section 877.6 is 'allocating costs
equitably among multiple tortfeasors.'  Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 502.  This is a
rule of basic fairness.  One tortfeasor
should not be allowed to get out a case cheaply while a joint tortfeasor stays
behind (possibly because of deeper pockets) to pick up the lion’s share of the tab.
However, this rationale disappears when the liability of the two co-defendants
is based on different causes of action and/or different time periods.  If these defendants are not joint tortfeasors
or co-obligors within the meaning of section 877.6, then the good faith
settlement rules do not apply.
However,
if the court assumes that Coldwater and Shind are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors, the next question that must be answered is whether Shind has met
its burden of proof. As noted above, "The party asserting the lack of good
faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)), should
be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far 'out of
the ballpark' in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of the statute….” Tech-Bilt, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500. A
review of 
Plaintiffs’
counsel and counsel for Coldwater argue that the $100,000 settlement was made
in good faith utilizing the services of a mediator. They further argue that the
Unruh Act cause of action against Shind subjects it to the possibility of a far
greater award of damages. The Court finds the declaration of Coldwater’s counsel,
Mr. Kerr, persuasive.  He declares: “As a
defense attorney who routinely handles landlord-tenant disputes, it is my
experience that retaliation claims are worth significantly more than
garden-variety habitability claims, and come with a much greater potential for
a punitive damages award from a jury. The potential exposure to Defendant SHIND
LLC is therefore significantly greater than the potential exposure to Defendant
7055 COLDWATER CANYON AVENUE, LLC.”
Mr.
Kerr further declares: “$100,000 is more than a proportional share of the
potential liability to Defendant 7055 COLDWATER CANYON AVENUE, LLC.” In support
of this, Mr. Kerr cites the findings of certified industrial hygienist Brian
Daly, who suggests that Plaintiffs’ habitability claims based on alleged mold
exposure lack merit.” This Court finds that the $100,000 settlement amount bears
a reasonable relationship to Coldwater’s proportionate share of liability.
Furthermore, the Court finds that, given the Unruh act claims, Shind’s
potential liability exceeds that of Coldwater. There is nothing in the record
to suggest that the settlement was entered into in bad faith or with an intent
to injure Shind’s interests.
In
response, Shind’s counsel argues that Shind began making repairs and
improvements to the property after it assumed ownership. He also argues that Shind
did not discriminate, harass or retaliate against Plaintiffs based on a brief
portion of Plaintiff Julio Santos Mayorga’s deposition testimony. The Court
finds Mr. Mayorga’s apparent testimony that the eviction notices were not sent
because of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation to be speculative and lacking
in foundation. These are ultimate questions for the finder of fact and not
something a witness can offer an opinion about. The Court finds that Shind has
failed to meet its burden of showing that the proposed settlement is “so far out
of the ballpark…as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the
statute.”
IV.     CONCLUSION
          The Court grants the motion for determination of good faith
settlement.  
Counsel for Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling.  
                   
Dated:  June 5, 2024                                    _______________________________
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT


