  Case Number:  19GDCV01347    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTI.        INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff J&J Freight
Solutions, LLC is a trucking company. It was started by Jie Mei Huang. Huang’s
husband, Qinyi Yu, formed Golden J Group, Inc., a sister company that provides
back up services to J&J in the form of assisting with port entry, trucking,
repairing, warehousing, and repackaging services. Defendants Jianhua Li and
Ninyan Tan are former employees. In this action, Plaintiffs allege that Li and
Tan misappropriated their trade secrets to start a competing business, CTU
Connection. In July 2020, a preliminary injunction was issued preventing
Defendants from using Plaintiffs’ trade secrets. In October 2021, Plaintiffs
added EMC Transportation, Inc. as a doe, alleging that it is a shell
corporation and conduit for CTU.  
Defendants
CTU Connection, Jianhua Li and Nenyin Tan filed their motion for summary
judgment on March 18, 2024. Plaintiffs filed an opposition on May 23, 2024. 
Before
the Court is Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or in the alternative,
summary adjudication. Defendants argue that there are no triable issues as to
the entire complaint, citing agency law and trade law.
The
motion is denied.
II.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiffs’
Objections  to Jianhua Li Declaration: (5)
The following objections are
overruled: 1, 2, 4, 5.
The following objections are
sustained: 3.
Plaintiffs’
Objections  to Nenyin Tan Declaration: (4)
The following objections are
overruled: 1, 3,4.
The following objections are
sustained: 2.
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
          Summary judgment is appropriately granted where it is shown
that an action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(a).) “A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action.”(CCP § 437p(1).) The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.¿ (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.)¿
          A motion for summary judgment shall be granted where all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue of material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (CCP § 437c(c).)
In so determining, the Court shall
consider all evidence in the papers and all inferences reasonably deducible
from that evidence. (Id.)
To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) The opposition papers “shall
include a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts
contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating if the opposing
party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.” (CCP § 437(b)(3).)
Summary adjudication may be granted where it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of
damages, or an issue of duty. (CCP § 437c(f).)
A plaintiff has met “his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately
pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) “[T]he burden [then] shifts
to the defendant . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
          Unopposed declarations must be accepted as true. (CCP §
437c(e).) However, affidavits must be liberally construed in favor of the
opposition and strictly construed against the moving party in determining the
existence of a "triable issue" of fact. (D'Amico v. Board of
Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)
IV.     ANALYSIS
          a. Undisputed Facts
          Defendant Jianhua
Li was an operations manager for Plaintiff companies. (UMFs 2-3.) Defendants Li
and Nenyin Tan do not have non-compete agreements with Plaintiffs. (UMF 5.)
Defendants Li and Tan were not officers of Plaintiff companies. (UMFs 15-16.)
          Defendant CTU Connection is a separate business entity
formed by Defendants. (UMFs 25, 28-31.)
          What is disputed is whether Defendants took Plaintiffs’
trade secrets, namely a customer list, among other information, and then used
that list to develop a competing business and poach customers.
b.
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets
A
trade secret is information that “(1) Derives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) Is
the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain
its secrecy.” (CC § 3426.1(d).) Misappropriation of a trade secret requires “(1)
the plaintiff owned a trade secret, (2) the defendant acquired, disclosed, or
used the plaintiff's trade secret through improper means, and (3) the
defendant's actions damaged the plaintiff.” (Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able
Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665, internal citations omitted.)
Defendants
urge that the customer list at issue is not a trade secret. In support,
Defendants cite Barney v. Burrow (2008) 558 F.Supp.2d 1066, where it was
found under California law that a customer list was not trade secret if the
former employees had substantially developed the list and the former employer
alleging misappropriation did not expend substantial efforts in creating the
list. (Id. at 1080-1081.) Defendants further cite case law and statute
for the proposition that California law disfavors retroactive non-competes and
trade restraints. (See Whyte v. Schlage Lock Co. (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1443,
1464; BPC § 16600.)
Defendants
offer the declaration of the two individual Defendants and of their attorney,
Fred Wong. Defendant Nenyin Tan declares that she was assistant to the
president of Plaintiffs. (Tan Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) She declares that she developed
CTU Connection’s customer lists and services 
through her own efforts. (Tan Decl. ¶ 6.) She declares that she did not
take Plaintiffs’ trade secrets nor owes Plaintiffs a duty to not compete. (Tan
Decl. ¶¶ 7, 9-11, 20.) Defendant Jianhua Li declares similarly. (Li Decl. ¶¶ 5-11,
20.)
In
opposition, Plaintiffs urge that there are triable issues of material facts as
to this cause of action, arguing that Defendants took more than the customer
list and customer lists can be trade secrets. Plaintiffs urge that Defendants
took customer lists, driver lists, financial information, and rate sheets.
(Plaintiffs Additional Undisputed Material Facts 35-40.) In support, Plaintiffs
provide the declaration of three of their customers/business contacts (Mee Mee
Liew Declaration, Mohamed Azwan Declaration, Wayne Wade Declaration), excerpts
from depositions and the declaration of Jamie Huang, president of Plaintiff
companies.
Of
note, Jamie Huang declares that he personally prepared and created the rate
sheet and the attached return policy. (Huang Decl. ¶ 2.) He declares that a
rate sheet for defendant CTU Connection contains the exact same typographical
errors and his return policy identically. (Huang Decl. ¶ 3.) Attached to the
declaration of Steven Stiglitz are excerpts of Defendant Tan’s deposition
testimony suggesting that CTU Connection modeled the rates it charged customers
on the rates Plaintiff charged. (Stiglitz Decl. Exhs. A and B.)
As Plaintiffs
have produced undisputed evidence that Defendants took more trade secret
information than just the customer list and Defendants only presented argument
as to the customer list, the motion for summary  judgment is denied. Summary adjudication is
denied as to this cause of action. 
          c. 2nd-6th Causes of Action
Defendants
urge that the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Civil Code Section 3426.1
et seq.) preempts the second through sixth causes of action for conversion,
breach of fiduciary duty, intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage, unfair competition, and invasion of privacy. As the same argument is
advanced as to each, the causes of action will be addressed at once. 
          Here, Defendants urge that these causes of action are preempted
by CUTSA as it concerns the same underlying conduct as the first cause of
action. Citing KC Multimedia v. Bank of America, Defendants urge that
the statute can function to preempt specific common law claims. (See K.C.
Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of Am. Tech. & Operations, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal. App. 4th 939, 957-959.) If the cause of action depends on a conclusion
that Defendants misappropriated Plaintiffs’ trade secrets, the cause of action
is preempted. (Id. at 959-960.) 
          In support, Defendants cite to the operative Second Amended
Complaint. (SAC.) The second cause of action alleges that Defendants converted
Plaintiffs’ property by stealing customer information. (SAC ¶¶ 76-77.) The
third cause of action alleges that Defendants breached their fiduciary duties
by taking this information. (SAC ¶¶ 83-84.) The fifth cause of action alleges
unfair competition based on misappropriation of trade secrets. (SAC ¶ 111.) The
fourth cause of action, however, alleges interference with business by
maligning and disparaging Plaintiffs. (SAC ¶ 98.) The sixth cause of action
alleges invasion of privacy based on stealing of a social security number and
subsequent disclosure of the number. (SAC ¶¶ 119-122.) The second, third and
fifth causes of action arguably depend on the conclusion that Defendants
misappropriated Plaintiffs’ trade secrets. 
          Additionally,
Defendants argue that the third cause of action fails because Defendants were
not officers of Plaintiff companies. Citing GAB Business Services, Inc. v.
Lindsey & Newsom Claim Services, Inc. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 409, 420,
Defendants urge that to owe fiduciary duties to a corporation, an employee must
exercise discretionary management power and be an officer in more than title
only. (Id.) Here, the individual Defendants were not officers of
Plaintiff companies. (UMFs 15-16.) As non-officer employees without
discretionary management control, they cannot be held to owe fiduciary duties
to the corporation. 
          In opposition, Plaintiffs cite the January 18, 2022, Order
on Demurrer that overrules this exact argument as to the second and fifth
causes of action. (See 1/18/22 Notice of Entry of Order Exh A: Tentative
Ruling.) In that ruling, the Court noted the presence of additional alleged misappropriation
of non-trade secret material. (Id.) In so finding, the Court ruled that
these causes of action were not preempted as other material was allegedly
stolen, such as log-in information, identification numbers and forms. 
          As to the third cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty, Plaintiffs urge that though Defendants were not officers of
Plaintiff-companies, they had access to confidential information and through
that access, owed fiduciary duties. (Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf,
Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150.)
Indeed, Defendants did have access to this confidential information. (PSUMFs
35, 36, 45-46.) Further, Plaintiffs urge that Defendants breached their
fiduciary duty by creating CTU Connection and soliciting their clients while
Defendants still worked for Plaintiffs. (See Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 401, 410-411, PSUMF 52.) 
          As Plaintiffs have produced responsive evidence demonstrating
triable issues of material fact that Defendants stole confidential information
and that Defendants breached their fiduciary duties, summary adjudication is
denied as to the remaining causes of action.
          d. Alter Ego Cannot Be Resolved on Summary Adjudication
          Summary adjudication is appropriate to resolve causes of
action, affirmative defenses, claims of damages or an issue of duty. (CCP
§437c(f)(1).) Alter ego, the theory that Defendant Tan and Li are alter egos of
their corporation, CTU Connection and thus can be held liable for the actions
of the corporation, does not fit into one of these categories.
          Summary adjudication on alter ego is not appropriate.
 
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is denied. Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is also denied.
Counsel
for Plaintiffs to provide notice. 
             
Dated:  June 5, 2024                                                                                                                                                                              _______________________________
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT