  Case Number:  22SMCV00098    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Miller v. Oto Development LLC, Case
no. 22SMCV00098
Hearing date November 1, 2024
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lusardi’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
Plaintiff
Abigail Miller, who is disabled and uses a wheelchair, alleges a door fell,
striking her and pinning her in a doorway in defendants’ hotel. She alleges the
hotel denied requests for reasonable accommodations, and the hotel and its
amenities were inaccessible and/or dangerous. Plaintiff sues defendants
Palmetto Hospitality of Santa Monica II, LLC Lessee, Interstate Management
Company and Lusardi Construction for negligence, premises liability, disability
discrimination and false imprisonment. Interstate Management cross-complains
against Lusardi for indemnity arising from Lusardi’s role as general
contractor. Lusardi sued JSI Doors, Inc. for indemnity and declaratory relief
arising from JSI’s installation of the door. 
Lusardi
moves for summary adjudication on its claim for declaratory relief against
cross-defendant JSI. Lusardi asserts its subcontract obligates JSI to defend
and indemnify it against claims arising from JSI’s work. 
JSI
opposes, arguing Lusardi fails to establish the essential elements of declaratory
relief, the indemnification provision is void and the claim for which Lusardi
seeks indemnification falls outside the scope of the indemnification provision.
Evidentiary Objections
JSI
evidentiary objections to Lusardi UMF. Objections 1-8 OVERRULED. 
JSI
evidentiary objection to declaration of Kurt Evans. Objection 1 OVERRULED. 
JSI
evidentiary objection to declaration of Katie Branch. Objection 1 OVERRULED.
Lusardi
evidentiary objections to declaration of John Henige. Objection 1 SUSTAINED
(parol evidence rule), objection 2 OVERRULED.
Request for Judicial Notice
Lusardi
requests judicial notice pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §452(d)(1) of the
following: (1) 1/20/22 complaint, (2) 9/19/22 FAC, (3) 2/7/23 SAC, (4) 8/2/23
operative TAC, (5) Lusardi 4/25/23 cross-complaint, (6) Palmetto Hospitality of
Santa Monica II, LLC’s 2/2/23 cross-complaint, (7) 2/28/23 Doe amendment to SAC
substituting Lusardi for Doe defendant No. 5, (8) 10/4/23 Doe amendment to TAC
substituting JSI for Doe defendant No. 4. GRANTED, as these are all court
records.
Cross-Complainant Lusardi
Construction’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
The
rules applicable to summary judgments apply equally to motions for summary
adjudication. Blue Shield of California Life & Health Ins: Co. v.
Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 727. The moving party bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850. Once a moving party meets their burden, the
burden shifts to respondents to show a triable issue of material fact. Id.

JSI
argues Lusardi has not met its initial burden because its moving papers did not
address the essential elements of the claim for declaratory relief. JSI asserts
Lusardi fails to meet its burden per Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67-68 (holding the moving party has the initial burden to define
the issues to be summarily adjudicated in its moving papers). 
Lusardi’s
cross-complaint alleges “cross-complainant has tendered its defense to
cross-defendants… but cross-defendants have not agreed to defend. Cross-complainant
seeks an order declaring cross-defendants… must immediately defend
cross-complainant.” Compl. 11:23-28, 12:2-5. Lusardi defined the issues within its
declaratory relief claim such that JSI is advised of the issues to be
addressed.
JSI
argues the subcontract’s indemnification provision is void and unenforceable. JSI
also asserts plaintiff’s claims do not fall within JSI’s scope of work, so the
indemnification provision is unenforceable under Civ. Code §2782.05(a). JSI argues
Miller’s operative TAC does not allege any claims against JSI or Doe 4, so JSI’s
scope of work is not implicated. The TAC alleges “defective installation of the
bathroom door.” TAC, para. 53. A general description of defects can implicate a
subcontractor’s work and trigger the duty to defend. UDC-Universal Dev.,
L.P. v. CH2M Hill (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 10. JSI does not provide material
facts that contradict plaintiff’s pleadings.
JSI
argues the indemnification provision states “subcontractor shall not be
required to indemnify contractor for contractor’s willful misconduct, sole
negligence or active negligence.” JSI argues Lusardi was the general contractor
and supervisor of JSI’s work, so any defects in JSI’s installation of the doors
makes Lusardi negligent in its supervision of JSI. Lusardi seeks to compel JSI’s
duty to defend. The two are distinct actions; indemnification requires a
finding of guilt, whereas the duty to defend arises in the course of
litigation. No triable issue of material fact exists.
JSI
argues Lusardi failed to properly tender its claim to JSI. The duty to defend
does not arise automatically, but upon a proper tender of defense. Civ. Code §
2782.05(e). JSI argues the tender correspondence from Lusardi does not provide
a statement regarding what portion of Lusardi’s fees and costs should be
reasonably allocated to JSI. JSI asserts the then-operative 2/7/23 SAC did not
contain allegations pertaining to JSI’s work at the hotel.
Lusardi
argues its tender to JSI complied with Civ. Code §2782.05(e). Lusardi’s tender
included defects alleged by plaintiff, including “the August 7, 2020, incident
was due to a ‘design flaw and/or defective installation of the bathroom door.’”
ASMF No. 55, FAC para. 53. Civ. Code §2782.05(e) requires a written statement
of fees and costs in addition to prescribing proper tender; the two
requirements are distinct and subsequent. No triable issue of material fact
exists.
JSI
raised numerous arguments regarding the scope of the indemnification provision,
the scope of plaintiff’s claims and the scope of Lusardi’s liability. These
contentions are not supported by material facts; the disputed facts identified
in the UMF, SSMF and ASMF address JSI’s subjective interpretation of the
subcontract or are identified by JSI as immaterial. Lusardi demonstrated that
no triable issue of material fact exists regarding the existence of the
subcontract, the indemnification clause in the subcontract, the scope of
plaintiff’s claims and the scope of JSI’s work. JSI fails to demonstrate a
triable issue of material facts. GRANTED.