 Case Number:  24SMCV02641    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Hand v. Hand Made Productions, LLC,
Case no. 24SMCV02641
Hearing date November 1, 2024
Defendant
Hand Made Productions & Kelly’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
Plaintiff
Laura Hand sues defendants Hand Made Productions, LLC and Christopher M. Kelly
for failure to pay wages, breach of contract, fraudulent conveyance and
accounting arising from plaintiff’s employment with defendants to create a
documentary film. Plaintiff controlled 35% of the LLC company and was its
managing member. Defendants move to compel arbitration. 
California
public policy strongly favors arbitration as an efficient alternative to
litigation. Code Civ. Proc. §1280 et seq., Madden v. Kaiser Found. Hosps.
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 706. The court “shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists.” Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2.
Plaintiff
and defendants signed a written agreement outlining the operations of defendant
Hand Made Productions which was to govern the parties’ rights and obligations
until a more extensive operating agreement could be established; this was never
done. Decl. Kelly ex. 1, paras. 2-3. 
Defendants
seek to enforce the binding arbitration clause within this agreement, which
plaintiff signed in July 2019. Decl. Kelly ex. 1, para. 2, 8. The agreement
states “the operation agreement shall provide that all disputes will be settled
by binding arbitration.” Decl. Hand ex. 1, para. 8; Decl. Kelly ex. 1, para. 8.
Plaintiff
asserts the arbitration provision is not a written agreement to arbitrate. Plaintiff
argues the parties entered into a written agreement to temporarily govern their
operations until a binding operating agreement could be executed. Plaintiff acknowledges
the full agreement would have contained an arbitration provision. The written
agreement by its own terms was intended to govern as an abbreviation of a contemplated
long-form document that would be more detailed but substantively similar. Decl.
Hand ex. 1, para. 1.a; Decl. Kelly ex. 1, para. 1.a.
Plaintiff
asserts the arbitration provision is not conspicuous, and she did not note the
arbitration provision. The written agreement is only four pages long, and parties
are responsible for reading and reviewing agreements to which they are
signatories. Failing to note a clause does not render that clause inherently
unenforceable. 
Plaintiff
also argues the arbitration provision is unconscionable. Unconscionability
includes elements of oppression and surprise. Plaintiff controlled 35% of the
limited liability company and was its managing member. Decl. Kelly ex. 1, para.
1.c; compl. para. 6. No evidence of oppression is offered, nor is this a
contract of adhesion or a situation of uneven bargaining power. 
Plaintiff
asserts the arbitration provision does not reference the relevant arbitration
rules, so is unconscionable by surprise. The agreement states “this agreement
will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws of the
State of California.” Decl. Hand ex. 1, para. 8; Decl. Kelly ex. 1, para. 8.
This is sufficient to give notice of the arbitration rules that would control. 
Plaintiff
also argues the presence of Hand Made Productions, LLC, a nonparty to the
arbitration provision, weighs against arbitration, per Code Civ. Proc.
§1281.2(c). Defendants argues Hand Made Productions, LLC was an intended
third-party beneficiary of the arbitration provision. An arbitration agreement
may be enforced by a third party beneficiary so long as the third party “shows
that he is a member of a class of persons for whose benefit it was made.” Ronay
Fam. Ltd. P’ship. v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal. App. 4th 830, 839; Cal. Civ.
Code §1559 (a contract made expressly for the benefit of a third party may be
enforced by that third-party). 
The
written agreement was made “in connection with” Hand Made Productions, LLC and specifies
the contributions and services to be provided to Hand Made Productions, LLC and
governs “all rights and obligations” of the parties in connection with Hand
Made Productions, LLC. Decl. Hand ex. 1; Decl. Kelly ex. 1. Hand Made
Productions, LLC was an intended third-party beneficiary of the agreement.
Plaintiff
next asserts her Labor Code §229 claims can be pursued in court, regardless of
a private arbitration provision. Labor Code §229 states: “Actions to enforce
the provisions of this article for the collection of due and unpaid wages
claimed by an individual may be maintained without regard to the existence of
any private agreement to arbitrate.” 
Defendants
assert FAA law supersedes Labor Code §229, as Hand Made Productions, LLC
engaged in interstate commerce via funding from Procter and Gamble in
Cincinnati, Ohio. Decl. Davine para. 5. Defendants assert Hand Made
Productions, LLC’s sole output was a documentary available via e-commerce
throughout the United States. In a claim for wages against an employer pursuant
to the Labor Code, sec. 229 controls unless the claimant engaged in interstate
commerce through the scope of their employment. Lane v. Francis Capital
Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 687.
Plaintiff
is alleged to have managed Hand Made Productions, LLC’s operations. Decl. Kelly
ex. 1, para. 1.c; compl. para. 6. Plaintiff is not alleged to have engaged in
interstate travel as part of that management. Labor Code §229 controls
plaintiff’s wage claims, and those claims can be pursued in court regardless of
a binding arbitration provision.
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED as to plaintiff’s breach of contract,
Bus. and Prof. Code §17200 et seq., fraudulent conveyance and accounting
causes of action and DENIED as to Labor Code section 229 claims. The court will
hear argument as to whether the Labor Code 229 claims should be stayed pending
arbitration of the remaining matters.