  Case Number:  23STCV21329    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Mealad K. Saadeh,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV21329




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Marriott Hotel Services, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February 7, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants Marriott Hotel Services,
LLC, Marriott International, Inc., Victor Lozano and Robyn Pabon
Responding Party: Plaintiff Mealad K. Saadeh
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff Mealad K. Saadeh filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants Marriott Hotel Services,
LLC, Marriott International, Inc., Victor Lozano and Robyn Pabon, asserting
causes of action for (1) discrimination in violation of FEHA; (2) harassment in
violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment and retaliation; (5) whistleblower retaliation; (6)
wrongful termination; (7) failure to pay wages; (8) failure to provide rest
periods; and (9) failure to provide wage statements. Plaintiff alleges he was
discriminated against based on his Middle Eastern descent. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of action for harassment in
violation of FEHA on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
showing severe and pervasive harassment.
 
The Fair Employment and Housing Act
prohibition on harassment states: “It is an unlawful employment practice. . .
.[f]or an employer, labor organization, employment agency, apprenticeship
training program or any training program leading to employment, any other
person, because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry,
physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual
orientation, or military veteran status, to harass an employee, an applicant,
an unpaid intern or volunteer, or person providing services pursuant to a
contract.” (Gov. Code § 12940(j)(1).) A hostile work environment is a
recognized form of harassment. To establish a hostile work environment,
harassment must be so severe or pervasive as to alter the conditions of the
victim’s employment and create an abusive working environment based on the
protected characteristic. (See Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1045,
1043.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants created hostile
work environment by treating Plaintiff, the only employee of Middle Eastern
descent, differently from other employees. Plaintiff alleges Defendants assigned
him tasks outside of his job duties, failed to provide sufficient support to
complete his duties, subjected him to overly harsh discipline, treated Middle
Eastern guests poorly, and terminated his employment for pretextual reasons. This
is sufficient at the pleading stage to establish racial harassment. 
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.