 Case Number:  24NNCP00161    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER ON PLAINTIFF’S PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARDThe hearing is continued to September
13, 2024, at 8:30 AM for Petitioner to effect proper notice of the time and
place of the rescheduled hearing.
 
I.        BACKGROUND
          On April 22, 2024, Petitioner Bill Me Later, Inc.
petitioned to confirm an arbitration award rendered in its favor against respondents
My Rx Pharmacy, Inc. d/b/a My RX Pharmacy and Tigran Silah on November 16,
2023. Respondent filed no opposition.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          “Any party to an arbitration in which
an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the
award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) If a party duly serves and files a petition
under section 1285, “the court shall confirm the award as made, whether
rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter
it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or
dismisses the proceeding.” (Id., § 1286.) Confirmation of the award is mandatory unless a response or petition to
correct or vacate the award has been timely filed. (See id.; Valsan
Partners Limited Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 809, 818.) 
 
          III. ANALYSIS
          1. Service
           “A copy
of the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing
thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served
in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such
petition and notice; but if the arbitration agreement does not provide the
manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon whom service is
to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously
been served, the Petition must be served within California in the manner
provided by law for the service of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4.)
          Here, the arbitration agreement provides for no method of
service. Petitioner filed proofs of service indicating that its initial notice
of motion and moving papers were served on Respondents in the manner of a
summons.
          However, Petitioner subsequently amended its notice of
motion to reflect a later hearing date. Section 1290.4 requires written notice
of the time and place of hearing to be given in the manner of a summons. When
Petitioner rescheduled its hearing, it was required to re-notice Respondent
personally. There is no proof of service reflecting it did so.
          The hearing must be continued for Petitioner to effect written
notice, in the manner of a summons, of the time and place of the rescheduled
hearing.
 
          2. Substance of Petition
          Petitioner’s petitioner is otherwise satisfactory. 
          The contents of a petition to confirm
an arbitration award shall set forth the substance of or have attached a copy
of the agreement to arbitrate, the names of the arbitrators, and shall set
forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the
arbitrators.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1285.4.)
          The petition complies with section 1285.4. Once it is
served correctly, the Court may grant judgment.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The hearing on the petition is CONTINUED to September 13,
2024 at 8:30 AM in this department.  The
OSC re proof of service set for August 6, 2024 is advanced and vacated and
reset for September 13, 2024.
          Petitioner is ordered to effect service of the instant
order in the manner of a summons on all parties.
          
Dated: July 29, 2024                                                                                                                 JARED D. MOSES                                                                         JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 