  Case Number:  23SMCV02642    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Michel
Nedjathaeim v. HOA Premier Management LLC, et al., Case No. 23SMCV02642
Hearing
date May 28, 2024
Defendants
HOA Premier Management, LLC, Durant Towers Owner’s Association, Inc., Benjamin
Hyles, and Carrie Field’s Motion to Strike
Plaintiff
Nedjathaeim sued defendants HOA Premier Management, LLC, Durant Towers Owner’s
Association, Hyles and Field, regarding failures to repair plaintiff’s
condominium. Defendants move to strike the prayer for punitive damages and
requests for attorneys’ fees. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435-437.
Punitive
Damages: A motion to strike is the procedure to attack unjustified punitive
damages. (Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 1547, 1561-1562.) A complaint including a request for punitive
damages must also include allegations showing that the plaintiff is entitled to
such an award. (Clauson v. Superior Court, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1255.) A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages. (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Specific factual allegations are
required to support a claim for punitive damages. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s complaint details a dispute over defendants’
alleged failure to repair. Plaintiff alleges he first listed the property for
sale in June 2021 (Compl., ¶ 10). Within several weeks, the HOA informed him a
plumbing leak originating in a common area damaged the property, limiting its
resale value (Id., ¶¶ 11-13). More substandard conditions were
discovered over ensuing months (Id., ¶¶ 18-31). The complaint alleges
the HOA consistently failed to cooperate as necessary to allow plaintiff to
perform repairs (Id.). Eventually he gave up and sold his property
as-is, allegedly resulting in lost profits (Id., ¶ 31). Plaintiff
alleges defendants’ promises to repair were intentionally false, but only by
legal conclusion, no supporting facts (Id., ¶¶45-46, 145, 148, 166-167).

The consistent, long-term refusal of the HOA to
cooperate with plaintiff’s reasonable efforts to repair his property could be
construed as a conscious disregard of his rights as a condominium owner and HOA
members. However, plaintiff fails to allege any specific facts, only alleging
legal conclusions unsupported by a factual basis. 
There is a single allegation at paragraph 34 that
Hyles – a named defendant and employee of the HOA – “threatened to prevent
Plaintiff from selling the Subject Property. On information and belief, Mr.
Hyles made this threat without the HOA Board’s consent.” (Id., ¶ 34,
emphasis added.) This allegation is not specific enough to support a claim for
punitives as is.
There are no allegations of oppression, fraud, or
malice sufficient to state a claim for punitive damages. Motion to strike is
GRANTED with leave to amend to allege facts establishing malice, fraud and/or
oppression, as is required to impose punitive damages. 
Attorney Fees: Per Civil Code section 1717, “[i]n any
action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's
fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded
either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is
determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the
party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a); see
also Silver Creek, LLC v. BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1533, 1538.) 
The parties’ Superseding and Restated Declaration
Establishing a Plan of Condominium Ownership, section 18.02 reads: “In any
proceeding arising because of any alleged breach or default under this
Declaration, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover the costs of the
proceeding and such reasonable attorneys’ fees and may be determined by the
court.” See Nedjathaeim Decl., Exh. A, p. 61. Attorney’s fees are contractually
allowable. Motion DENIED.