 Case Number:  24SMCV00604    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Elassi v. HMA Development, Inc., et al., Case No.
24SMCV00604
Hearing date May 28, 2024 
Defendants HMA Development, Inc., Aizenman &
Gellar’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Punitive Damages 
 
Plaintiff alleges that throughout his tenancy in an
apartment owned by defendants, his unit has been plagued with water leaks,
which caused mold infestations, resulting in illness. Plaintiff further alleges
that despite repeatedly informing defendants of repairs needed, defendants
failed to timely make such repairs. Plaintiff claims defendants initiated
eviction proceedings in retaliation for his complaints.
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress and move to strike punitive
damages.
  
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
“‘The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress were summarized in [citation], as
follows: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention
of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant’s outrageous conduct.”’ [Citation.]” Flynn v. Higham (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 677, 681. 
 
“Extreme and outrageous conduct is conduct that is ‘“so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community”’ [citation] and must be ‘“of a nature which is especially calculated
to cause, and does cause, mental distress.”’ [Citation.] ‘“‘[I]t is for the
court to determine, in the first instance, whether the defendant’s conduct may
reasonably be regarded as so extreme and outrageous as to permit
recovery.’”’ [Citation.]”  Chang v. Lederman (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 67, 86–87. 
 
Defendants
argue there are no facts alleged to show defendants intended to cause or
recklessly disregarded the probability of causing emotional distress, and
plaintiff has not alleged facts to he suffered severe emotional distress. 
 
The court
disagrees. Plaintiff sufficiently alleged water leaks and mold infestations, of
which he complained to defendants, and defendants failed and refused to fix
them. Complaint ¶¶ 16, 17, 29 and 51. In addition,
plaintiff alleges defendants initiated eviction proceedings against him in
retaliation for his complaints of mold. Id. ¶ 34.
These allegations, taken as true and viewed in the light most favorable to
plaintiff, provide an adequate basis upon which a fact finder could conclude
defendants’ conduct was in reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress. In addition, plaintiff alleges suffering severe emotional
distress, a sufficient factual allegation. Id. ¶ 53. OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
 
Under California law, a landlord’s
failure to repair can support a claim for punitive damages. Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920. In Stoiber, the Court held
the tenant pled sufficient facts to support her prayer for exemplary damages
because she alleged the landlord had actual knowledge of the defective
conditions, including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling,
leaking roof, broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions, and
the landlord failed to repair them. Id.
 
As discussed, the facts alleged in
the cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, detailed
above, provide a sufficient basis to allege punitive damages. DENIED.