  Case Number:  22STCV38301    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




forex express corp., d/b/a
   wirecash

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
inter & co. payments,
   inc., f/k/a pronto money transfer, inc., d/b/a pontual

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV38301




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   30, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to quash subpoenas for
  production of business records
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Inter & Co. Payments,
Inc., and Inter & Co., Inc. (joined by defendant Eliran Grushkowsky on
September 8, 2023)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash
Motion to Quash Subpoenas for Production of Business Records 
The court
considered the moving, joinder, opposition, and joint reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Inter & Co. Payments, Inc., and Inter & Co., Inc.
(“Inter Defendants”), joined by defendant Eliran Grushkowsky (“Grushkowsky”)
(collectively, “Defendants”), move the court for an order quashing the
Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records served by plaintiff
Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash (“Plaintiff”) on third parties Amazon Web
Services, Inc. (“Amazon”) and GitHub, Inc. (“GitHub”).  
The court denies Defendants’ motion because (1) Defendants did not
comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, and (2) even if Defendants
had complied with rule 3.1345, Defendants did not meet their burden to show
that the court should quash the subpoenas. 
As a threshold procedural matter, the court finds that Defendants have
not complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.  
“The motions that require a separate statement include a motion: [¶¶]
To compel or quash the production of documents or tangible things at a
deposition.”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1345, subd. (a)(5); Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:602.5 [“A motion to quash
production of documents at a deposition must be accompanied by a separate
statement setting forth the particular documents or demands at issue and the
factual and legal reasons why production should not be compelled”].) 
Because Defendants request that the court “quash the production of
documents or tangible things at a deposition[,]” Defendants were required to
file with the court a full and complete separate statement “that provides all
the information necessary to understand each discovery request” at issue in
their motion.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1345, subds. (a)(5), (c); Notice of Mot., p. 2:1-7.)  However, Defendants did not file a separate
statement as required.  The court notes
that a separate statement is especially necessary here, because Inter
Defendants’ moving papers (1) quote only request for production number 6 in the
deposition subpoenas to argue that the subpoenas’ document requests are
overbroad, but (2) also seem to argue that all of the requests are
overbroad.  (Mot., pp. 9:13-22 [stating
that the subpoenas “broadly demand, among other things” the documents
requested in request number 6 in each subpoena] [emphasis added], 10:26-28
[quoting portions of request number 6], 15:12-14 [“the requests are
overbroad, duplicative, and can be obtained by less burdensome means through
the Inter Defendants”] [emphasis added]; Park Decl., Exs. M, p. 90:21-23
[Deposition Subpoena to Amazon], N, p. 
99:22-24 [Deposition Subpoena to GitHub].)  It is therefore unclear to the court whether
Defendants contend that all or some of the document requests are overbroad. 
Thus, the court exercises its discretion to deny Defendants’ motion
for failing to file a separate statement as required by California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345.  (Mills v. U.S.
Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893 [trial court has discretion to deny
discovery motion that does not comply with separate statement requirement].) 
However, even if Defendants had filed a separate statement, the court
finds that Defendants have not met their burden to show that the deposition subpoenas
that Plaintiff served on Amazon and GitHub should be quashed. 
Defendants contend that the deposition subpoenas should be quashed
because (1) Plaintiff has not adequately identified its trade secrets with
reasonable particularity as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
2019.210, (2) the subpoenas are overbroad, and (3) the subpoenas seek duplicative
information from non-parties that Plaintiff has or should be sought from
Defendants.  The court disagrees. 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has adequately identified its
trade secrets as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.210.
“In any action alleging the misappropriation of a trade secret under
the Uniform Trade Secrets Act . . . , before commencing discovery relating to
the trade secret, the party alleging the misappropriation shall identify the
trade secret with reasonable particularity subject to any orders that may be
appropriate under Section 3426.5 of the Civil Code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2019.210.)  Under this statute, “[t]he
trade secret must be described ‘with sufficient particularity to separate it
from matters of general knowledge in the trade or of special knowledge of those
persons who are skilled in the trade, and to permit the defendant to ascertain
at least the boundaries within which the secret lies.’”  (Altavion,
Inc. v. Konica Minolta Systems Laboratory, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 26, 43-44.)
As noted by the parties in the opposition and reply papers, Plaintiff served
on Defendants its Second Amended Identification of Trade Secrets on January 19,
2024.  (Ferrier Decl., ¶ 3; Ferrier
Decl., Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff has also
submitted the declaration of its expert, Dr. Philip Greenspun, in which Dr.
Greenspun states that (1) Plaintiff’s Second Amended Identification “does
enable a person skilled in the field to understand the trade secrets being
claimed[,]” (2) he understands that Plaintiff is claiming that its trade
secrets are the source code that makes up its Risk Decision Engine, SQL
Database, and the eight key design concepts that the Risk Decision Engine and
Database enable, and (3) the Second Amended Identification “identifies each algorithm
that makes up the Risk Decision Engine” and the algorithms that are used by
Plaintiff’s design concepts, such that “a skilled programmer looking at [the
identification] would understand what [Plaintiff] is claiming are its trade
secrets.”  (Dr. Greenspun Decl., ¶¶ 4,
22, 24-25, 29.)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that its Second Amended
Identification[1]
describes its trade secrets “‘with sufficient particularity to separate it from
matters of general knowledge in the trade or of special knowledge of those
persons who are skilled in the trade, and to permit [Defendants] to ascertain
at least the boundaries within which the secret lies’” and therefore satisfies
section 2019.210.  (Altavion, Inc., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 43-44.) 
Second, the court finds that Defendants have not shown that request
for production number 6 (i.e., the only document request set forth in the
moving papers) in the subpoenas is impermissibly overbroad. 
Third, the court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to
show that there exists “a threatened intrusion” on the legally protected privacy
rights of third parties “that is serious.” 
(Williams
v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552; Mot., p. 13:24 [arguing that the documents demanded “may
well implicate third-party privacy rights”].)
“The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  Thereafter, the party seeking the
information may raise “legitimate and important countervailing interests”
served by the disclosure, “while the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy.”  (Ibid.)  “A court must
then balance these competing considerations.”  (Ibid.)  
Defendants have not submitted competent evidence establishing that request
for production number 6 will violate the right to privacy of third
parties.  The court finds that    (1) Inter Defendants’ counsel’s statement
that Inter Defendants “likely ha[ve] legal obligations to safeguard its source
code and customer information” does not adequately establish a serious,
threatened intrusion on privacy, and (2) Resolution CMN 4,893 of February 26,
2021 does not establish a serious, threatened intrusion on privacy, since
Defendants have not cited to any portion of the ten-page resolution
establishing such an intrusion on a legally protected privacy interest.  (Park Decl., ¶ 16; Feldman Decl., Ex. F [Res.
CMN 4,893]; Reply, p. 11:24-25 [generally citing Feldman Decl., Ex. F].)  The court also finds that Plaintiff’s
interest in obtaining this discovery outweighs the concerns that Defendants
have raised regarding the privacy interests of third parties.  Moreover, any privacy concerns that
Defendants have about third parties may be addressed by designating the
documents as confidential or highly confidential pursuant to the protective
order entered in this action on August 28, 2023. 
Fourth, the court finds that Defendants have not (1) met their burden
to show that request for production of documents number 6 seeks “unreasonably
cumulative or duplicative” discovery or discovery that “is obtainable from some
other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive[,]” or
(2) supported their request made under Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.030
with a meet and confer declaration that satisfies section 2016.040 since the
September 5, 2023 email to Plaintiff’s counsel does not show that Defendants
made a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the issues presented in
connection with their request under 2019.030. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2019.030, subds. (a)(1), (b), 2016.040; Park Decl.,
Exs. O-P.) 
ORDER
            The court denies defendants Inter
& Co. Payments, Inc., Inter & Co., Inc., and joining defendant Eliran
Grushkowsky’s motion to quash subpoenas for production of business records.
 
 
            The court orders plaintiff Forex
Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 30, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


