  Case Number:  23TRCV03758    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  P Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended ComplaintMoving Party: Defendant Torrance Medical CenterResponding Party: NoneRULINGHaving considered the moving papers, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn November 9, 2023, Plaintiff Drue Scott (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Cedars Sinai Health Ventures, Inc. (“Cedars”), Torrance Memorial Medical Center (“Defendant”), and DOES 1-10 alleging causes of action for (1) Medical Negligence and (2) Constructive Fraud.On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Cedars, Defendant, Kenneth Holliman, M.D. and DOES 1-10 alleging the same causes of action.On December 10, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. As of January 14, 2025, no opposition has been filed.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff alleges that on March 3, 2022, her infant son passed due to Defendants’ failure to render proper medical care. (FAC, Attch. 1, Exh. 1.)Defendants engaged in fraudulent conduct by failing to properly deliver Plaintiff’s son, inform her of possible birthing complications, and concealing medical errors which led to her son’s death, in breach of the parties’ medical provider-patient relationship. (FAC, Attch. 1.)LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentDefendant contends that the medical negligence cause of action is time-barred. Plaintiff’s second cause of action does not meet the heightened pleading standard for fraud and is a thinly veiled medical negligence action.Merits of the MotionA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)Defense counsel declares that Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to the meet and confer letter. Accordingly, the court finds that the parties have not satisfied the meet and confer requirements. However, the court will still address the merits of the motion.B. First Cause of Action for Medical Negligence“The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)Defendant demurs to this cause of action on the basis that it is barred by Code Civ. Proc. section 340.5, which states, “In an action for injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional negligence, the time for commencement of action shall be three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.”Defendant argues that the statute of limitations began to run on November 8, 2022, as that was the date she sent a letter stating her intent to sue. Plaintiff filed this action on November 9, 2022, and thus, it was untimely. However, the letter is not mentioned in the face of the complaint, nor is it attached to the complaint. Thus, it is extrinsic evidence which the court cannot consider when ruling on a demurrer.Alternatively, Defendant argues that the care at issue is Defendant’s alleged negligence during the delivery of the decedent on March 3, 2022. The decedent passed on the same day he was delivered, and thus, Plaintiff’s medical negligence action began to accrue on March 3, 2022.“’[O]nce a patient knows, or by reasonable diligence should have known, that he has been harmed through professional negligence, he has one year to bring his suit.’” (Citations.) (Carillo v. County of Santa Clara (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 227, 234-235.) The statute of limitations begins to run once the patient has “’notice or information of circumstances to put a reasonable person on inquiry, or has the opportunity to obtain knowledge from sources open to his investigation…’” (Citations.) (Id. at p. 235.)Here, Plaintiff alleges that the Defendant had a duty to use due care in facilitating and conducting her labor and delivery process. Defendant’s failure to do so caused the death of her son. From these allegations, it appears that Plaintiff would have been on inquiry notice, as a reasonable person would suspect that negligence in the delivery process contributed to the death of their newborn son.Thus, Plaintiff’s complaint should have been filed on or before March 3, 2023. As the complaint was filed months after, it is untimely.Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.C. Second Cause of Action for Constructive FraudA claim for constructive fraud requires a fiduciary, confidential, or special relationship, followed by a breach such as a nondisclosure, with the intent to deceive, resulting in reliance by the other party, causing harm or damages. (Younan v. Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 516, 517.)The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)Defendant demurs to this cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has not pleaded fraud with particularity, and Plaintiff’s allegations sound in medical negligence, not constructive fraud.The court agrees that Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to state a cause of action for fraud against Defendant, a corporate entity. Plaintiff alleges that all Defendants “engaged in fraudulent conduct” by failing to obtain her informed consent. However, to allege fraud against a corporation, a plaintiff must plead the name of the person making the false representation and their authority to speak on the corporation’s behalf. As Plaintiff fails to do so, she has not stated a cause of action for constructive fraud against Defendant.Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the second cause of action.D. Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden is on the complainant to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Plaintiff alleges some facts which show that the discovery rule may have tolled the statute of limitations for her medical negligence cause of action. Namely, she alleges that her medical providers hid complications during the birthing process from her and failed to warn her that such complications could occur. Thus, she may not have suspected that negligence was the cause of her injury until after March 3, 2022.The court finds that there is a possibility that Plaintiff can successfully amend the complaint to show that it is not time-barred. The court GRANTS leave to amend.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.