 Case Number:  22STCV23460    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  73 5/29/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ERIC KAUFMAN v. LOCKTON COMPANIES, LLC, et al. (22STCV23460) 
 
Counsel for Plaintiff:
Steven
Brennan (St. John, Wallace, Brennan & Folan LLP); Debra Fischer (Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants:  Russell Falconer, James Tsouvalas (Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP) 
 
(1)  
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION (filed 12/29/2023) 
(2)  
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO CONDITIONALLY SEAL DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED IN PLAINTIFF’S OPPOSITION TO
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE AND RELATED DATES (filed 2/27/2024) 
(3)  
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO conditionally SEAL EXCERPTS OF PAUL MOORE DEPOSITION TRANSCRIPT AND
REPLY IN SUPPORT OF DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE AND RELATED DATES
(filed 3/01/2024) 
(4)   DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO SEAL: (1) PLAINTIFF’S
OPPOSITION TO MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE AND RELATED DATES; (2) EXHIBIT 1 TO
GERBER DECL. IN SUPPORT OF PLAINTIFF’S OPPOSITION; AND (3) EXHIBIT 2 TO GERBER
DECL. IN SUPPORT OF PLAINTIFF’S OPPOSITION (filed 3/08/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendants’ Motion for Reconsideration
is DENIED and in the alternative, the Court STAYS the proceedings. 
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Conditionally Seal Excerpts of Paul Moore
Deposition Transcript and Reply in Support of Lockton’s Motion to Continue
Trial Date and Related Dates. The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Seal: (1)
Kaufman’s Opposition to Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates; (2)
Exhibit 1 to Gerber Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition; and (3)
Exhibit 2 to Gerber Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Eric Kaufman brings this action for declaratory relief against Defendants
Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC ("LIA"), Lockton Investment
Securities, LLC, f/k/a Lockton Financial Advisors, LLC ("LIS"), and
Lockton Companies, LLC - Pacific Series ("Pacific Series",
collectively "Lockton").
 
LIA provides investment advisory and
related services, LIS buys and sells securities as a registered broker dealer,
and Pacific Series provides insurance and risk management services. (FAC, ¶
10.) Kaufman became a producer member of LIA in approximately July 2007 and a
producer member in LIS and Pacific Series in approximately July 2008. (FAC, ¶
23.) To become a producer member of LIA, LIS, and Pacific Services, Kaufman
paid a $200 capital contribution for a single "Producer Unit" in each
entity. (FAC, ¶ 23.) As of May 1, 2016, Plaintiff entered into an “Amended and
Restated Member Agreement" with Pacific Series and with LIS and, as of May
1, 2016, a "Second Amended and Restated Member Agreement” with LIA
(collectively the "Member Agreements"). (FAC, ¶ 16.)
 
The Member
Agreements include nonsolicitation covenants. (FAC, ¶ 20.) The
Member Agreements include Missouri choice of law and Missouri forum selection
clauses. The Member Agreements require Kaufman to adjudicate disputes in the
federal court in Kansas City, Missouri or in the Circuit Court of Jackson
County, Missouri. (FAC, ¶ 18.) he Member Agreements for LIA, LIS, and Pacific
Series require Plaintiff to provide thirty days written notice of termination.
(FAC, ¶ 22.)
 
Kaufman
withdrew from and terminated his membership in LIA, LIS, and Pacific Series on
July 18, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 27.) Kaufman subsequently accepted employment with
Alliant, a California-based competitor of Lockton. (FAC, ¶ 28.) At Alliant,
Kaufman will provide products and services that are directly competitive with
the products or services of Lockton. (Ibid.) 
In the first amended complaint, Kaufman asserts a single cause of
action for declaratory relief, seeking a judicial declaration that the
nonsolicitation covenants, Missouri choice of law and forum selection clauses,
and notice requirements are void and unenforceable as a violation of Business
and Professions Code Sections 16600 and California public policy. Kaufman
alleges: Plaintiff desires a judicial declaration that the enforcement of the
Missouri Choice of Law and Missouri Forum Section Provisions would violate
California's fundamental public policy in favor of workplace mobility and
competition. Plaintiff also desires a judicial declaration that the Notice
Provision, Member Agreements Non-Competition Covenants and the December 2021
Non-Competition Covenants are facially void under Business and Professions Code
Section 16600 and California public policy in favor of workplace mobility and
open competition are thereby unenforceable as to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 40.) 
 
Lockton
moved to dismiss Kaufman's complaint and/or stay this action on grounds that
the Missouri forum selection clause is mandatory. On December 13, 2023, the Court denied
Lockton’s motion to dismiss.
 
A.     Lockton’s
Motion for Reconsideration
 
On
December 29, 2023, Lockton filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration, arguing:
·      
On December 18, in an action in federal court in Missouri
involving the same parties, the court entered a final judgment that the same
forum-selection clause the Court declined to enforce in its order “requir[es]
that any dispute between Lockton and Kaufman be litigated in Missouri”
(11.14.2023 Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1 at p. 4) and is “valid and
enforceable” as a matter of federal law (12.28.23 Request for Judicial Notice,
Ex. 1 at p. 5). The final judgment in Missouri warrants
reconsideration of the Court’s order denying Defendants’ motion to dismiss and
dismissal of this action. (Superior Motels, Inc. v. Rinn Motor Hotels, Inc.
(1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 1032, 1057 [“Full faith and credit must be given to a
final order or judgment of a federal court.”].)
·      
In the alternative, Lockton requests the Court revoke the order
and a stay this action. On December 13, the California Supreme Court granted
Lockton’s petition for review in the writ proceedings stemming from Lockton
Companies v. Giblin, L.A. Superior Court Case No. 22STCV39876, which
involves the same forum-selection clause and contracts as this case, as well as
the same counsel and virtually all of the same arguments for and against
dismissal on grounds of forum non conveniens. (12.28.23 Request for Judicial
Notice, Ex. 2.) It would conserve judicial and party resources to await the
Supreme Court’s decision in Giblin, as the upshot of that decision may be that
this case doesn’t belong in California in the first place.
 
In
opposition, Kaufman argues:
·      
Lockton’s
motion is not ripe
o   The Court
should not grant Lockton’s motion—or at least delay ruling on it. This Court
should not rule on Lockton’s instant motion until the Supreme Court acts on the
order Lockton seeks to negate by its instant motion.
·      
The Court should exercise its discretion not to dismiss or stay
this action even if the Missouri Ruling has preclusive effect.
 
Lockton filed
a reply, arguing:
·      
The Missouri federal court’s final judgment conclusively
establishes, as matter of federal law, that the forum-selection clause Eric
Kaufman agreed to is mandatory, exclusive, valid, and enforceable. The Court
does not have discretion to refuse full faith and credit. 
·      
Federal law determines the preclusive effect of the Missouri
federal court’s final judgment.
o  
All of Kaufman’s arguments in opposition rest on this Court
applying California’s res judicata standard (rather than the federal one) to
give the Missouri federal court’s judgment less faith and credit than the
judgment would receive in Missouri federal court. (Opp. 5-15.) Kaufman is wrong
because federal law, not California law, applies here.
 
 
B.     The Parties
Motions to Seal
 
On
February 27, 2024, Kaufman filed a Motion to Conditionally Seal Documents
Submitted in his Opposition to Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates.
No opposition was filed.
 
On
March 1, 2024, Lockton filed a Motion to Conditionally Seal Excerpts of Paul
Moore Deposition Transcript and Reply in Support of Lockton’s Motion to
Continue Trial Date and Related Dates. No opposition was filed.
 
On
March 8, 2024, Lockton filed a Motion to Seal: (1) Kaufman’s Opposition to
Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates; (2) Exhibit 1 to Gerber
Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition; and (3) Exhibit 2 to Gerber
Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition. On April 18, 2024, Kaufman
filed a notice of Non-Opposition to Lockton’s Motion. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Lockton’s Motion for Reconsideration
 
a.     Review by a
Different Judge
 
As an initial matter, the Court addresses whether a judge who
did not make the initial ruling can consider this motion.
 
Generally, a motion for reconsideration must be made to the
same judge.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a); Marriage of Oliverez
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1248.)  “However, there are narrow exceptions
to this general rule.”  (Marriage of Oliverez, supra, 238
Cal.App.4th at 1248.)  “‘[W]here the judge who made the initial
ruling is unavailable to reconsider the motion, a different judge may entertain
the reconsideration motion.’”  (Id. (quoting Ziller Electronics
Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232) (alteration in
original).)  “Another exception is when the facts have changed or when the
judge has considered further evidence and law.”  (Id.) 
“Additionally, a second judge may reverse a prior ruling of another judge if
the record shows that it was based on inadvertence, mistake, or fraud.”  (Id.
at 1248-49.)  “Mere disagreement . . . with the prior trial judge’s
ruling, however, is not enough to overturn that ruling.”  (Id. at
1249.)   
 
Here, Lockton’s motion moves for reconsideration of the December
13, 2024 order made in this Department, Department 73, by Judge Timothy Dillon.
However, Judge Dillon is unavailable to hear the instant Motion due to his
temporary reassignment to another Department. Therefore, the Court finds that
the assigned judge to Department 73, Judge Rolf Treu, may consider this motion.

 
b.     Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
Lockton requests judicial notice of the following:
1.    
The December 18, 2023 order (ECF No. 178) granting plaintiff’s
motion for certification of partial summary judgment under Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 54(b) in Lockton Companies, LLC – Pacific Series, et al. v.
Kaufman, No. 4:22-cv-00462- SRB in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Missouri.
2.    
The December 13, 2023 order granting Lockton’s petition for review
in Lockton Companies, LLC, et al. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, No.
S282136 in the Supreme Court of California.
3.    
The First Amended Complaint filed on October 27, 2023 in Lockton
Companies, LLC – Pacific Series et al. v. Alliant Ins. Servs., Barnes, Canales,
Racunas, and Roderick, Case No. 4:23-cv-00705-SRB, filed in the Western
District of Missouri.
4.    
Lockton’s May 3, 2023 Petition for Peremptory Writ of Mandate,
Prohibition, or Other Extraordinary Relief in Lockton Companies, LLC, et al. v.
Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles; Sallie
Giblin, No. B328408 filed in the Court of Appeal of California, Second
Appellate District.
5.    
Lockton’s October 5, 2023 Petition for Review filed in Lockton
Companies, LLC, et al. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, No. S282136 in
the Supreme Court of California.
 
The
court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants all of Lockton’s requests. 
 
c.      Motion for
Reconsideration
 
The moving party must present new facts, circumstances or law
in order to grant a motion for reconsideration.  (See CCP § 1008(a); see
also Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)  The
party seeking reconsideration of an order shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, what order or decisions were made, and what new or
different facts or circumstances are claimed to be shown.  (CCP §
1008(a).)  Further, “…the party seeking reconsideration must provide not
only new evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to
produce that evidence at an earlier time.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457 [emphasis added].)  The legislative intent was to
restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the
court some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason
for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) 
 
Lockton moves for reconsideration of the Court’s December 13,
2023, order denying its motion to dismiss because of subsequent legal
developments in California and Missouri that occurred after the Court issued
its order. 
 
On the same day that this Court issued its order denying Lockton’s
motion to dismiss, the California Supreme Court issued an order granting
Lockton’s petition for review in Lockton Companies v. Superior Court (Sallie
Giblin). In Giblin, the California Supreme Court is reviewing the
enforceability of the same forum-selection clause in a case involving the same
counsel, the same operative Lockton LLC Member Agreements and contractual
provisions, and virtually all of the same arguments for and against dismissal
on grounds of forum non conveniens. (12.28.23 Request for Judicial Notice, Exs.
2, 4-5.)
 
Further, on December 18, 2023, the federal court in Missouri
entered a final judgment that the same forum-selection clause at issue here is
“valid and enforceable” as a matter of federal law. (12.28.23 Request for
Judicial Notice, Ex 1 at p. 5.) Lockton asserts that the final judgment in
Missouri warrants this Court to grant the motion to reconsider and dismiss
Kaufman’s complaint on the ground of forum non conveniens. “Full faith and
credit must be accorded a judgment of the federal court. . . . Such a judgment
has the same effect in the courts of this state as it would in a federal
court.” (Smith v. Walter E. Heller & Co. (1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 259
271-272.)
 
While the parties dispute as to whether the Missouri federal
court’s final ruling preclude Kaufman from continuing to litigate this action,
the Court declines to grant Lockton’s motion for reconsideration and to enter
an order granting Lockton’s motion to dismiss this case. Instead, the Court stays
the proceedings in this case pending resolution of the writ proceedings in Giblin, since
the California Supreme Court will decide the enforceability of the exact same
forum-selection clause at issue in Lockton’s motion to dismiss in this case. As
Lockton asserts in its motion, this would be in the interests of the parties
and the Court which would both be spared the time and resources required to
adjudicate issues that the California Supreme Court has already agreed to
resolve. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds a stay in the proceedings in this case is warranted
pending the resolution of the writ proceedings in Lockton Companies v.
Superior Court (Sallie Giblin).
 
B.    
Motions to Conditionally Seal
 
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(c).) However, a party may move to seal records
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rules 2.550-2.551. “A party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an
order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) To grant an order pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rules 2.550 and 2.551, the Court must expressly find
facts that establish:  
 
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record; 
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
On
February 27, 2024, Kaufman filed a Motion to Conditionally Seal Documents
Submitted in his Opposition to Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates.
 
On
March 1, 2024, Lockton filed a Motion to Conditionally Seal Excerpts of Paul
Moore Deposition Transcript and Reply in Support of Lockton’s Motion to
Continue Trial Date and Related Dates. 
 
On
March 8, 2024, Lockton filed a Motion to Seal: (1) Kaufman’s Opposition to
Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates; (2) Exhibit 1 to Gerber
Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition; and (3) Exhibit 2 to Gerber
Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition. Kaufman filed a notice of
Non-Opposition to Lockton’s Motion. 
 
The
parties request the Court seal these documents pursuant to
the April 19, 2023 Protective Order entered by the court in Lockton Cos.,
LLC, et al. v. Kaufman, Case No. 4:22- cv-00461-SRB (W.D. Mo.). (Supplemental
Declaration of Russell H. Falconer, Ex. A). The April 19, 2023 Protective Order
provides that “[a] Party seeking to make a Confidential Filing must comply with
the provisions of . . . the presiding California Court[] in filing a document
under seal.” (Supp. Falconer Decl., Ex. A ¶ 14.) Under Rule 2.551(b)(3), a
“party that files or intends to file with the court, for the purposes of
adjudication or to use at trial, records produced in discovery that are subject
to a confidentiality agreement or protective order, and does not intend to
request to have the records sealed, must: 
 
(i) Lodge the
unredacted records subject to the confidentiality agreement or protective order
and any pleadings, memorandums, declarations, and other documents that disclose
the contents of the records, in the manner stated in (d) [below]; 
(ii) File
copies of the documents in (i) that are redacted so that they do not disclose
the contents of the records that are subject to the confidentiality agreement
or protective order; and 
(iii) Give
written notice to the party that produced the records that the records and the
other documents lodged under (i) will be placed in the public court file unless
that party files a timely motion or application to seal the records under this
rule.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(3).)
 
Subdivision
(d) of Rule 2.551 provides in pertinent part that a record that may be filed
under seal “must be put in an envelope or other appropriate container, sealed
in the envelope or container,” marked “CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL” and lodged
with the Court. (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.551(d).) Further, the party
submitting the lodged record must affix to the envelope or container a cover
sheet that contains “all the information required on a caption page under rule
2.111;” and “[s]tates that the enclosed record is subject to a motion or an
application to file the record under seal.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Lockton
requests the Court conditionally file excerpts of the of
Paul Moore Deposition Transcript and Lockton’s Reply in Support of Lockton’s
Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates, under seal until Plaintiff has
had the opportunity to move to seal these materials. The operative
Protective Order states that a producing party “may designate any Discovery
Material as ‘Highly Confidential-AEO’ … if such Producing Party in good faith
and reasonably believes that disclosure of the Discovery Material … is
substantially likely to cause injury to the Producing Party.” (Supp. Falconer
Decl., Ex. A ¶ 1.) Lockton asserts the Deposition Transcript of Paul Moore
(taken February 8, 2024) qualifies as a “Discovery Material” and was designated
AEO. (Supp. Falconer Decl., Ex. G, 302:7-14). Defendants’ Reply in Support of Defendants’
Motion to Continue the Trial Date (at p. 10) references excerpts from Mr.
Moore’s February 8, 2024 Deposition Transcript. 
 
Lockton also moves the Court to Seal:
(1) Kaufman’s Opposition to Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates;
(2) Exhibit 1 to Gerber Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition; and
(3) Exhibit 2 to Gerber Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition.
Lockton asserts the documents should be sealed because they do not involve
records to be used at trial or as a basis of adjudication of substantive issues
in this case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332.) Thus, the Court may seal
these records without analyzing the sealing factors under the Rules of Court.
Lockton argues that further, the documents should be sealed because they
include highly confidential and confidential Lockton information, including
client names, client retention rates, profit information, and Lockton’s
business processes and strategy upon a producer’s departure from Lockton, the
disclosure of which would cause substantial competitive harm to Lockton and no
less restrictive means exist to prevent this harm. (Skinner Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) On
February 27, 2024, Kaufman filed an application to conditionally seal the same
documents. 
 
The
parties do not dispute that the documents should be sealed. Based on the
foregoing, the Court grants the parties request.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Defendants’ Motion for
Reconsideration is DENIED and in the alternative,
the Court STAYS the proceedings. 
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Conditionally Seal Excerpts of Paul Moore
Deposition Transcript and Reply in Support of Lockton’s Motion to Continue
Trial Date and Related Dates. The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Seal: (1)
Kaufman’s Opposition to Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related Dates; (2)
Exhibit 1 to Gerber Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition; and (3)
Exhibit 2 to Gerber Declaration in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition. 