 Case Number:  23STCV07569    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  73 5/29/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SMITH, et al. v. GENERAL MOTORS, LLC (23STCV07569)
 
Counsel for Plaintiffs/moving
party:  David Barry (The Barry Law Firm)
Counsel for
Defendant/ opposing party: Mary McBride (Erskine Law Group, PC)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
ANSWERS TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (filed on 04/02/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatory
Nos. 14 and 42 is GRANTED. Defendant shall serve supplemental responses within 30
days of the Court’s order.
 
The Court
DENIES Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions. 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Greg Smith and Lorraine Smith brought
this action against Defendant General Motors, LLC. On August 23, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Second Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting 4 causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability under The Song-Beverly Act; (2) Breach
of Express Warranty under The Song-Beverly Act; (3) Breach of Express Warranty
under California Commercial Code§ 2-313; and (4) Violation of The Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act.
 
This action stems from Plaintiffs’ purchase of a 2018 Chevrolet
Camaro LT, VIN 1G1FB3DSXJ0116379 (“Subject Vehicle” or Vehicle”). The Vehicle
was manufactured and warranted by Defendant. Plaintiffs allege that after persistent
manufacturing defects, Plaintiffs brought the vehicle in for repairs to
Defendant’s authorized dealership(s) who were unable to repair the defects and
Defendant refused to buy back the vehicle. Plaintiffs’ lawsuit alleges breach
of express and implied warranties under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act,
and request that the subject vehicle be repurchased, that Plaintiffs be awarded
appropriate damages and attorneys’ fees as allowed by statute. Plaintiffs also
seek a statutory civil penalty for Defendant GM’s bad faith failure to
repurchase Plaintiffs’ vehicle as required by the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act.
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion to Compel
Further Answers to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14 and 42, arguing: 
·      
On
February 9, 2024, this Court ordered Defendant to provide code-compliant
responses to Special Interrogatories 14 and 42. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant
still has not provided code-compliant responses to these interrogatories. 
·      
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s response to Special Interrogatory 14 is not fully compliant
because Defendant does not provide the names of all the service technicians  
·      
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s response to Special Interrogatory 42 is evasive and nonresponsive. No information particularized to
the investigation of the Subject Vehicle has been provided in Defendant’s
response.
·      
Plaintiffs request that the court impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of $6,022.50
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs did not meet and confer in
good faith
·      
Defendant provided code compliant
responses 
·      
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions should
be denied
 
Plaintiffs filed a reply arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs made several attempts to meet
and confer
·      
Defendant must provide further responses
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Meet and Confer
 
“The
Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the
moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an
informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.) “A meet and confer declaration in support of
a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2016.040.) 
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs
did not meet and confer in good faith because they “never made an attempt to substantively understand and address [Defendant’s]
concerns in this case.” (Oppos., p. 3.)
 
However, the
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met. Plaintiffs’
counsel, Brian Kim (“Kim”), sets forth meet and confer efforts prior to filing
the instant motion. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 7-11; Ex. 4-5.) Kim states he sent Defendant’s
counsel a meet and confer letter highlighting deficiencies within Defendant’s
discovery responses. (Ibid.) The parties then conferred telephonically on
March 8, 2024 and March 14, 2024. (Ibid.) However, Kim states the
parties arrived at an impasse and could not come to an agreement regarding the
supplementation of Defendant’s responses. (Ibid.) Kim sent Defendant’s
another meet and confer email and attempted to telephonically confer again, but
did not receive a response. (Ibid.) The Court finds Plaintiffs’ meet and
confer attempts are sufficient.
 
B.     Legal
Standard 
 
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action
written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”¿ CCP § 2030.010(a).¿
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court
has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding
party the court has extended the time for response.”¿ CCP § 2030.260(a).¿ 
¿ 
“The party to
whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath separately
to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An answer containing the
information sought to be discovered. (2) An exercise of the party's option to
produce writings. (3) An objection to the particular interrogatory.”¿ CCP §
2030.210(a).¿ “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but
shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by
inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information
is equally available to the propounding party.”¿ CCP § 2030.220(c).¿ 
¿ 
“On receipt
of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ 
¿ 
“Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(c).¿“[T]he time limitations set forth
in section 2030 and section 2034, subdivision (a) [are] mandatory and [when]
not met, the trial court's order is in excess of its jurisdiction.”¿(Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
 
a.     Special Interrogatory
No. 14
 
Plaintiffs argue
that a further response to Special Interrogatory No. 14, must be compelled. Special
Interrogatory No. 14 requests the following:  
 
“IDENTIFY all PERSONS who performed warranty repairs upon the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
In response, Defendant provided the names and employee ID numbers
of Service Advisors and Technicians with M. K. Smith Chevrolet. Defendant also
provided the names and employee ID numbers of Service Advisors with Reynolds
Buick GMC. However, Defendant did not provide the names of the Technicians.
Defendant only provided the employee ID numbers of the Technicians with
Reynolds Buick GMC. Defendant contends it does not have knowledge of
third-party information for dealerships and any call centers that are not its
agents.
 
Plaintiffs assert that Defendant’s response is not complete. The
Court agrees. Defendant provided the requested information as it pertains to M.
K. Smith Chevrolet, but provided an incomplete response as to Reynolds Buick
GMC. Code Civil of Procedure section 2030.220(c) provides: “[i]f the responding
party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.” Given Defendant’s relationship with its authorized repair
facilities, Defendant has not demonstrated that the subject information is
“equally available” to Plaintiffs and Defendant has not shown that it could not
have obtained the names of the technicians. Further, the technicians are
percipient witnesses since they are likely to have information regarding
Plaintiffs’ vehicle and the nature and extent of repairs in varying detail.
Plaintiffs have a right to know who they are in order to determine if they
should be deposed. The Court finds that Plaintiffs have shown good cause to
compel further responses.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatory No. 14 is GRANTED.
 
a.     Special
Interrogatory No. 42
 
Plaintiffs argue
that a further response to Special Interrogatory No. 42, must be compelled. Special
Interrogatory No. 42 requests the following:  
 
“Explain with particularity all aspects of YOUR investigation into
whether the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified or was eligible for repurchase or
replacement pursuant to The Song-Beverly Warranty Act.”
 
Defendant responded by stating “How the individuals who determine
whether a vehicle qualifies for a repurchase or replacement under Song-Beverly
depends upon information provided by the customer. For customers who contact GM
and request a repurchase, the vehicle-specific information in GM’s possession
will be analyzed, including the vehicle’s Global Warranty History Report and
any Service Request Activity Report(s). Additionally, it may include documents
from the customer, including a copy of the vehicle purchase contract and repair
orders. Based upon the vehicle specific information in GM’s possession, plus
documents that the customer provides, if any, GM will assess whether the
vehicle qualifies for a repurchase or replacement under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act.”
 
Defendant contends its response is sufficient because it provided
Plaintiffs with the process undertaken in every investigation into whether a
vehicle qualifies for a repurchase or replacement. 
 
However, the Court does not find Defendant’s response is code
compliant. Defendant did not provide any information as to what was done to
investigate Plaintiff’s particular Subject Vehicle and whether it qualified or
was eligible for a replacement or repurchase. The information is discoverable
because it goes directly to an issue in the case and Defendant's affirmative
defense that its denial to repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle was in good faith.
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatory No. 42 is GRANTED.
 
C.    
Sanctions
 
The court may impose sanctions against any party for engaging in conduct
constituting a “misuse of the discovery process.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030
(a).)¿Misuse of the discovery process includes “failing to respond or submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 (d).) 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs’ request for monetary
sanctions against Defendant’s counsel is defective. A request for sanction
shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. (Sole
Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207.) Here, the notice of
motion does not specifically identify against whom the sanctions are sought.
(Notice of Motion, p. 2.) Plaintiff merely requests “for monetary sanctions for Defendant’s failure to abide by the
requirements of the discovery act to date.” (Ibid.) Thus, the Court
will not impose sanctions. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatory
Nos. 14 and 42 is GRANTED. Defendant
shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s order.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ request
for sanctions. 