  Case Number:  21STCV17794    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  73 5/26/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
DAVIDOFF v. OROJENILAK, et al. (21STCV17794) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Armen Shaghzo (Shaghzo and Shaghzo Law Firm, LP) 
Counsel for Defendant
Ryan Orojenilak: Mason Yost, Esq.
 
(1)  
REQUEST FOR
ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT AGAINST DEFENDANT RYAN OROJENILAK (filed 3/05/2024) 
(2)   APPLICATION TO SERVE METCO GROUP, INC. THROUGH
SECRETARY OF STATE (filed
5/10/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s request for entry
of default judgment against Defendant Ryan Orojenilak is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s application
to serve Defendant Metco Group, Inc. through the Secretary of State is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to serve the summons on the Secretary of State for
Defendant Metco Group, Inc. 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 12,
2021, Plaintiff Claidin Davidoff the instant action against Defendants Ryan
Orojenilak and Metco Group, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action:
1.      Breach
of Partnership Agreement
2.      Abuse
of Legal Process
3.      Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
4.      Fraud
5.      Unjust
Enrichment
6.      Promissory
Estoppel
 
The FAC alleges that in or around April 2019, Plaintiff and
Defendants, entered into an oral agreement to start a partnership or in the
alternative a joint venture in which the Parties would obtain and perform
construction work together and share the profits. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Both parties agreed that the profit from each
construction work would be divided equally amongst themselves. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants did not
perform according to the Partnership Agreement and Plaintiff did not receive
any profit from any of the four projects that he completed with Defendants.
(FAC, ¶ 19.) The FAC further alleges that after
multiple attempts by Plaintiff to recover his share of the profits from
Defendants, Defendants informed Plaintiff that he may take Defendants' tools
stored in a storage unit, as a form of payment towards Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 21.) However, Defendants contacted the police and
made a false report that Plaintiff was stealing the tools from Defendants and
Plaintiff was arrested and charged. (FAC, ¶¶ 25-28.)
Plaintiff alleges Metco Group, Inc., is a California Corporation,
registered to Orojenilak, who is its sole owner. (FAC, ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
On
March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for entry of default judgment against
Defendant Orojenilak. Plaintiff
seeks judgment in the total amount of $73,933.53, consisting of the amount
demanded in the complaint of $51,030.53, $22,288.00 in interest, and $615.00 in
costs. 
 
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an application
and order to serve Metco Group, Inc. through the Secretary of State. 
 
II.DISCUSSION
 
A.      Request for
Entry of Default Judgment 
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
CCP § 585 permits entry of a judgment after a Defendant has
failed to timely answer after being properly served.  A party seeking
judgment on the default by the Court must file a Request for Court Judgment,
and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible
evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as
necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of
judgment; (6) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought;
(7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an
application for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of
grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for
attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties. 
(CRC Rule 3.1800.) 
 
b.     
Application
 
SUBMITTED: CRC
3.1800 
 
1.      Use of JC Form CIV-100                                                                          Yes 
2.      Dismissal or judgment of non-parties
to the judgment                  Yes 
3.      Declaration of non-military status for each defendant                          Yes 
4.      Summary of the case                                                                              Yes 
5.      585(d) declarations/admissible evidence in support                                Yes 
6.      Exhibits (as
necessary)                                                                           Yes 
7.      Interest
computation (as necessary)                                                 Yes 
8.      Cost memorandum                                                                                 Yes
 
 
Damages Summary: 
 



Damages 


$ 51,030.53 




Punitive Damages  


 N/A




Interest 


$ 22, 288.30   




Attorneys’ fees 


 N/A      




Costs 


$  615.00         




TOTAL 


$  73,933.53     




Other relief requested 


 N/A



 
Here,
Plaintiff has complied with all requirements for a default judgment. Plaintiff
submitted a declaration by Plaintiff and his attorney, Armen Shaghzo, in
support of the requested costs. Since Plaintiff has complied with the
requirements, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for default judgment.
 
B.      Application
and Order to Serve Metco Group, Inc. through the Secretary of State
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
California Corporations Code §
1702(a) provides: 
 
(a) If an
agent for the purpose of service of process has resigned and has not been
replaced or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable diligence be found
at the address designated for personally delivering the process, or if no agent
has been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court that process against a domestic corporation cannot be served with
reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in the manner provided
in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of
Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the corporation in the
manner provided in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) of Section 416.10 or
subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may
make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by
hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of
State's office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of the process
for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order authorizing
such service. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.
 
b.     
Application
 
Plaintiff
asserts that despite his diligent
efforts, he has been unable to effectuate service on Defendant Metco Group, Inc.
Plaintiff could not serve Defendant Metco Group, Inc. at the address for
service of process listed on the latest Secretary of State Records page.
Plaintiff made multiple attempts to serve Defendant at the address, but the
property appeared vacant and unoccupied. (Khalatian
Decl., ¶¶ 1-4.) Plaintiff’s process server states he
spoke with the owner of the business in the neighboring suite who
indicated that Metco Group, Inc. had moved from the address two or three years
prior. (Khalatian Suppl. Decl., ¶ 4.) Because
Plaintiff has been unable to personally serve Defendant Metco Group,
Inc., Plaintiff is requesting that the Court enter an
order directing service of Plaintiff’s summons to be delivered by process on
the Secretary of State. The Court finds that this is reasonable given the
diligent efforts that Plaintiff has made in attempting to serve Defendant
Metco Group, Inc.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s application for order to serve summons to the Secretary of the
State for Defendant Metco Group, Inc. is granted. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
entry of default judgment against Defendant Ryan Orojenilak is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s application
to serve Defendant Metco Group, Inc. through the Secretary of State is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to serve the summons on the Secretary of State for
Defendant Metco Group, Inc. 