  Case Number:  19STCV22929    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SANDRA SALVADOR, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV22929  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 28, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Sandra Salvador (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel the deposition of Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (“Defendant”) employee Michael Marquise Williams (“Williams”), who was the bus operator at the time of the incident. Defendant opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.    II. Compel Deposition CCP § 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410. Here, Plaintiff’s counsel deposed Williams on January 27, 2023. However, before Plaintiff’s counsel could finish the deposition, the deposition ended after two hours because Williams had to go to work. Plaintiff’s counsel avers they need additional time to depose Williams on the facts of the incident, relevant policies and procedures, and the video footage of the interior of the bus capturing the incident. Plaintiff’s counsel further contends that defense counsel stipulated to produce Williams for Volume II of his deposition, but defense counsel has not produced Williams and has not provided new dates. Plaintiff unilaterally noticed William’s second deposition, and defense counsel objected on the grounds of unilateral notice. Plaintiff’s counsel declares they sent meet and confer emails requesting dates, and defense counsel has not provided dates when trial is impending. Trial is currently set for October 26, 2023. In opposition, defense counsel avers they did cooperate to reschedule Williams’ deposition, but that defense counsel had difficulty reaching Williams in February 2023, which they informed Plaintiff’s counsel of by telephone on March 13, 2023. Furthermore, defense counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel, offering April 4, 2023 for Volume II of William’s deposition. Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to April 4, 2023, but also indicated that Plaintiff would not move forward with Williams’ deposition without the video incident from the exterior cameras of the bus. Defense counsel responded that there were no exterior views of the DVR bus video of the incident. Defendant avers it previously produced the entire preserved DVR bus videos, consisting of 7 cameras, to Plaintiff’s counsel on September 28, 2020, and that Plaintiff’s counsel is aware that the one external camera was not operable. Furthermore, Defendant argues its expert, Thomas Fugger, who has already been deposed, opined that the inoperable camera was a curbside directed camera, and would not have caught the incident nor any aspect of it. Defense counsel contends that after Plaintiff’s counsel stated on March 24, 2023 that he would not resume Williams’ deposition until the exterior camera was produced, Plaintiff’s counsel has not made any efforts to reschedule or resume the deposition.  In reply, Plaintiff contends Defendant is engaging in gamesmanship, and that Plaintiff had to file the motion to compel due to the deadline. The prior handling attorney at the time of Williams’ deposition is no longer with Plaintiff’s counsel’s firm. Plaintiff counsel argues defense counsel should have followed-up with current Plaintiff’s counsel after defense counsel stipulated to continue Williams’ deposition with the previous handling attorney for Plaintiff.  Plaintiff does not directly address Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff did not inquire as to the deposition of Williams after refusing to move forward with the agreed upon April 4, 2023 date, based upon the request for a video from an inoperable external camera. Instead, Plaintiff shifts the burden onto defense counsel to follow-up with the next handling attorney for Plaintiff. As the party seeking to depose Williams, the burden is on Plaintiff to move forward in pressing for Williams’ deposition. The evidence provided by the parties demonstrates the last discussion about Williams’ deposition was on March 24, 2023, when Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to April 4, 2023 at 2:00 p.m. for the deposition date. It appears to the Court that defense counsel was willing and was able to produce Williams at the time the April 4, 2023 date was offered, but neither counsel continued the discussion thereafter. There is no evidence that Plaintiff noticed Williams’ second deposition at any point after the last discussion.  Accordingly, the motion to compel Williams’ second deposition is DENIED.    III. Sanctions CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. Because the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion, no sanctions are awarded.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 27th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    