 Case Number:  20STCV37091    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ALICIA CEJA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  P & I TRANSPORTATION, INC.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV37091  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  September 28, 2023  Plaintiff Alicia Ceja, deceased, by and through her personal/legal representative, Roberto Ceja (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Justina Ramon, Esq. of Ellis Law Corporation (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because Plaintiff refuses to listen to advice from Counsel and is non-cooperative.   Counsel declares they served the moving papers on Plaintiff via mail at the client’s last known address, which was confirmed through a Westlaw search. Counsel also declares they have been unable to confirm the address or locate a more current address after making the efforts of mailing the papers to the last known address, calling Plaintiff’s last known telephone number, calling Plaintiff’s emergency contact number, and attempting to arrange with the client to personally deliver the motion papers. Counsel filed proof of service on Plaintiff, Defendant, and the Clerk of the Court.  The motion is unopposed and granted; the ruling is effective upon filing proof of service of the final order. The Court notes no trial date has been set for this matter. Therefore, there is sufficient time for Plaintiff to seek other counsel or otherwise prepare prior to trial.  Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 27th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    