  Case Number:  23STCV02516    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Element436 Condominium Association,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV02516




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Helen Pae and Moon B. Pae, Trustees
  of the 2021 Pae Family Trust dated February 15, 2021, 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October
17, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions for
Attorney’s Fees
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff
Element436 Condominium Association filed a complaint against Defendants Helen
Pae and Moon B. Pae, Trustees of the 2021 Pae Family Trust dated February 15,
2021, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of the CC&Rs; (2)
declaratory relief; and (3) nuisance. Plaintiff alleges Defendants refused to
allow access to their condominium unit for Plaintiff to repair water damage.
 
On March 9, 2023, the parties entered
into a stipulated settlement. On June 27, 2024, the Court dismissed the action
and retained jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the contract
specifically provides for attorney’s fees.  (Civ. Code § 1717(a).) Civ. Code, § 5975 provides for attorney’s fees
to the prevailing party in an action to enforce CC&Rs.
 
Both Plaintiff and Defendants
move for attorney’s fees, each claiming that they are the prevailing party. CCP
§ 1032(a)(4) provides that a “ ‘Prevailing Party’ includes the party with a net
monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant. If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in
situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as
determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its
discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs between
the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under
Section 1034.”
 
Here, neither party has
recovered monetary relief, and no adverse judgment has been entered against
either party. Plaintiff argues it is the prevailing party because Defendants
would not have allowed access to the unit if Plaintiff had not filed suit.
Defendants dispute this characterization and represent that they were not
obstructing the repair. Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s attempts at repair
were not sufficient or effective and that this suit was unnecessary.
 
The Court declines to award
fees to either party. The parties voluntarily settled this action. Neither
party is the prevailing party under the scenarios set forth in CCP § 1032, and
the facts regarding fault are disputed. Neither Plaintiff nor Defendants have
established they are the prevailing party. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for
attorney’s fees is DENIED. Defendants’ motion for attorney’s fees is DENIED.


 