 Case Number:  24STCV15521    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Curtis Randolph,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV15521




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Palmetto Solar, LLC, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 17, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant Palmetto Solar, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Curtis Randolph
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff sued
Defendants Palmetto Solar, LLC, Lightreach, Energy Service Partners Inc.,
Serenity Builders & Developers Inc., and the State of California, asserting
causes of action for negligence, fraud, breach of contract and UCL violations. Plaintiff,
who co-owns real property with non-party Gordon Randolph, alleges Defendants
wrongfully coerced Gordon Randolph into signing a 25-year lease for solar
panels. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy,
the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….”  (CCP § 1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration provision in the Solar Lease Agreement executed by Gordon
Randolph on March 8, 2024. (Exh. A.) The agreement provides, “ARBITRATION REPLACES THE RIGHT TO GO TO COURT, INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO A
JURY TRIAL...You and we agree that any dispute, claim or disagreement between
you and us (a ‘Dispute’) shall be resolved exclusively by arbitration except as
specifically provided below. Disputes covered by this agreement include but are
not limited to: claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement; claims
arising out of or relating to our relationship; claims that arose before this
or any prior Agreement (including, but not limited to, claims relating to
advertising); consumer protection claims; and claims under any federal or state
statute.” (Id., Exh. 2.) 
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Non-Signatory
 
Plaintiff Curtis Randolph asserts that
he cannot be compelled to arbitration because he is a non-signatory to the
agreement. In reply, Defendant asserts Plaintiff may be compelled to arbitrate
under the doctrines of equitable estoppel and third-party beneficiary. 
 
“When a plaintiff brings a claim which relies on contract terms against
a defendant, the plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1239.) “When that plaintiff is
suing on a contract— on the basis that, even though the plaintiff was not a party
to the contract, the plaintiff is nonetheless entitled to recover for its
breach, the plaintiff should be equitably estopped from repudiating the
contract's arbitration clause.” (Id. at 1239–1240.)
 
Plaintiff’s allegations arise from the formation, execution, and claimed
breach of the Solar Lease Agreement. Plaintiff is estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause. Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The
action is STAYED.
 