 Case Number:  24NWCV01598    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  C VILLALOBOS V. ROSARIO PASILLAS
CASE NO.:
24NWCV01598   
HEARING: 01/22/2025 @10:30 a.m.
 
#11
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Rosario Pasillas’ demurrer to the first amended
complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Defendant Rosario Pasillas demurs to Plaintiff Jose
Villalobos’s first amended complaint.
 
Background
 
This is an unlawful detainer action. On May 22, 2024, Jose
Villalobos, Trustee of the Villalobos Mercado Living Trust, (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Rosario Pasillas (Defendant) for unlawful detainer. On June
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) reclassifying the
action as a limited unlawful detainer action. Plaintiff alleges that since
2005, Defendant was a tenant-at-will at 3509 Greenglade Ave., Pico Rivera, CA
90660 (Subject Premises) pursuant to an oral agreement with Plaintiff’s
predecessor in interest. The oral agreement terminated when Plaintiff’s father
and former trustee Ismael Villalobos passed away on October 22, 2022. Defendant
was then served with a 60-day notice to quit on January 12, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) In assessing a demurrer, the court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether
the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a
cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, at p. 747.) A complaint
will be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
549-50.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10(f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain.
Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a
pleading is so incomprehensible a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J.
Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695;
Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
“Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.) A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” (Ibid.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 subd. (a).)
 
Here, the parties have not met and conferred. Defendant does
not provide any declaration regarding a meet and confer prior to bringing this
demurrer. Plaintiff’s counsel states that Defendant’s counsel did not meet and
confer prior to filing this demurrer. (Coleman Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant learned
about this demurrer from the Court’s Clerk during a separate conversation about
a potential default.  (Coleman Decl., ¶
2.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the FAC on the grounds that the
pleadings do not state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action because
they are inherently uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. 
 
As a preliminary matter, Defendant’s demurrer is
procedurally defective. As Plaintiff argues in opposition, Defendant’s demurrer
combines the grounds for demurrer as provided under Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10 subd. (c) and (f) by stating that the FAC fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action because it is uncertain. While the
demurrer’s arguments focus on FAC’s uncertainty, Defendant does not list Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10 subd. (f) as a basis for the demurrer.
Further, the demurrer also prays for the complaint to be stricken. However,
Defendant demurs to the FAC without a motion to strike. The Court will rule on
the merits of this demurrer because the matter was previously called for
hearing, and pursuant to oral stipulation, reset for hearing on this date.  However, because this matter is not a limited
unlawful detainer action, any future motions should be filed in Department
SE-W, the unlawful detainer hub court.  
 
Defendant argues that the spelling of Plaintiff’s name on
different filings in this case render the FAC uncertain. Defendant argues that
on some portions, Plaintiff’s name is spelled with “double LLs once” and on
other portions with “double LLs twice.” (Demurrer, ¶¶ IV-VIII.) In opposition,
Plaintiff argues his last name, “Villalobos” is spelled correctly in the
attorney identification page of the caption of the FAC and the 60-day notice to
quit. Plaintiff admits to spelling the name incorrectly in the caption of the
FAC due to inadvertence of Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
Here, the Court finds that the spelling inconsistencies in
Plaintiff’s last name do not render the FAC uncertain. The error does not cause
the FAC to fail to provide notice to Defendant that Plaintiff is bringing this
action. This is exemplified by Plaintiff’s name being correctly identified in
Defendant’s notice of demurrer.
 
Next, Defendant argues that the FAC is uncertain as to
whether Defendant brings this action as an individual, or in his capacity as
trustee. Defendant’s argument relies on Form CP10.5, attached the FAC, which names
Plaintiff as “Jose Villallobos.” The Court finds that this error on the CP10.5
does not render the FAC uncertain because the FAC, on Form UD-100, names
Plaintiff as “Jose Villallobos, Trustee of the Ismael Villalobos Mercado Living
Trust.” Defects in demurrers must be apparent on the face of the pleading. (See
Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) Here,
the pleading is certain as to Plaintiff’s capacity as trustee. Therefore, the
error in the attachment does not render the FAC uncertain because the FAC
properly provided notice to Defendant that Plaintiff was bringing this action
in his capacity as trustee.
 
Third, Defendant argues that the FAC is uncertain regarding
the period of the 60-day notice to quit. Specifically, Defendant asserts that ¶
9.b.(1) of the FAC improperly states that the 60-day notice to quit expired at
the end of the day on January 10, 2024. Defendant argues this is improper
because ¶ 10.a of the FAC states that the notice to quit was served on January
12, 2024.  It appears to the Court that
the language used in ¶ 9.b.(1) of the form complaint could be clearer.  Plaintiff inserted “January 10, 2024” in that
paragraph because that was the date written on the 60-day notice to quit.
(Complaint, Ex. 2.)  However, ¶ 9.b.(2) states, “Defendants failed to
comply with the requirements of the notice by that date” (italics
added).  This suggests that Plaintiff
should have inserted the date when the 60-day period expired.  In any event, ¶ 10.a.(3) clearly indicates
that the notice was served “By posting a copy on the premises on January 12,
2024.”  It follows that Defendant had 60
days from January 12, 2024 to comply with the requirements of the notice.  
 
Lastly, Defendant argues that the FAC is uncertain because a
proof of service was not filed for the 60-day notice, Plaintiff failed to
attach an optional “attachment 17,” and a UD-101 form was not attached with the
FAC. These issues do not make the FAC uncertain because they do not render the
FAC unintelligible to the point of which Defendant cannot reasonablly respond. Plaintiff
does not cite, and the Court does not find, legal authority requiring a proof
of service to be filed with a notice to quit. Moreover, Plaintiff filed a form
UD-101 with the initial complaint. 
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff improperly seeks
attorney’s fees. This argument is not properly raised on demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is
OVERRULED.