  Case Number:  21STCV29691    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  C HERNANDEZ v.
SIMPLIFIED LABOR STAFFING SOLUTIONS, INC., ET AL.
CASE NO.: 21STCV29691 

HEARING: 01/22/2025 @ 10:30 a.m.
 
#7
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff Eduardo Hernandez’s motion for relief to file a
late opposition pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473 is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff Eduardo Hernandez (Plaintiff) moves for an order
to file a late opposition to Defendant Econo Door Repair Services’ motion to
dismiss for lack of prosecution pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473.
 
Background
 
On August 11, 2021, Plaintiff filed this personal injury
action against Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc., MAERSK, SG, MAERSK,
Inc., MAERSK Line Limited, and MAERSK Agency, Inc. Plaintiff alleged three
causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) negligence per se, and (3) premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges that he sustained injuries when a metal ramp
guided by a home-made jerry rigged device crashed on to a metal dock where
Plaintiff stood. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-13.) On April 10, 2024, after receiving
Defendant Damco Distribution Services, Inc.’s discovery responses, Plaintiff
discovered Econo Door Repair Services’s (Econo) involvement and amended the
complaint to add Econo as Defendant.
 
On September 23, 2024, Specially Appearing Defendant Econo
moved to dismiss with prejudice all causes of action against Econo for lack of
prosecution.
 
On December 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for relief to
file a late opposition pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473.
 
Legal Standard
 
Discretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties
or legal representatives from “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473 subd. (b).) “[T]he court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any…resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her
client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact
caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473 subd. (b) due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel did not calendar the correct
deadline to file an opposition for Econo’s motion to dismiss. An opposition for
a motion to dismiss for delay in prosecution is due within 15 days after
service of the notice of motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1242(b).)
Plaintiff’s counsel mistakenly calendared the deadline based on other statutory
deadlines pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005. (McElfish Decl., ¶
8.) Plaintiff additionally argues that Econo will not be prejudiced by a late-filed
opposition because the hearing on the motion to dismiss is set to be heard on
February 19, 2025. 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s counsel has demonstrated
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect within the meaning of Code of Civil
Procedure section 473. Plaintiff additionally filed its opposition to Econo’s
motion to dismiss soon after realization of the error on December 10, 2024.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s unopposed motion for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 to file a late opposition to Econo’s motion to dismiss
for lack of prosecution is GRANTED.
 