 Case Number:  23NWCV01214    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  C PONCE, ET AL. v. VINTAGE INDUSTRIES LLC, ET AL.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV01214
HEARING: 01-22-2025 @ 9:30 a.m.
 
#2
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
National Unity Insurance Co.’s unopposed motion for leave
to file an answer in intervention is GRANTED.  National Unity Insurance Co. is ORDERED to
file its answer in intervention within 20 days.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Proposed Intervenor National Unity Insurance Co. (Proposed
Intervenor) moves the Court for an order granting leave to file an answer in
intervention on behalf of Defendant Vintage Industries LLC.
 
No opposition filed as of January 18, 2025.
 
Background
 
On April 20, 2023, Leslie Ponce and Leticia Delgafo Fuentes
(Plaintiffs) filed this personal injury action against Defendants Vintage
Industries LLC and Felix Renteria Rosas alleging general negligence.  Plaintiffs allege that on May 17, 2021, Defendants
were travelling in a vehicle at or near Ardine Steet and Quartz Avenue in South
Gate when the vehicle collided into Plaintiffs’ vehicle while making a left
turn. (Complaint, p. 4.) Defendant Rosas was driving a vehicle owned by
Defendant Vintage Industries LLC. (Motion, p. 1:24-26.)  
 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiffs requested entry of default as
to Defendant Vintage Industries LLC. Defendant Vintage Industries LLC has been
suspended as a corporation for almost four years, including at the time of the
accident. (Steward Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
Defendant Vintage Industries LLC had a commercial liability
policy in effect with Potential Intervenor on the date of the motor vehicle
collision. (Steward Decl., ¶ 11.) Potential Intervenor now moves for leave to
intervene on behalf of its insured, Defendant Vintage Cultures LLC.
 
Legal Standard
 
An intervention takes place when a nonparty becomes a party
to an action by “uniting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a
plaintiff.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 387 subd. (b)(2).) A nonparty petitioning for
leave to intervene must include a copy of the proposed complaint or answer in
intervention and state the grounds for the intervention. (Code Civ. Proc. § 387
subd. (c).)
 
The Court shall permit an intervention if “[a] provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene” or “[t]he person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so
situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that
person's ability to protect that interest, unless that person's interest is
adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 387 subd. (d)(1).)
 
Alternatively, the Court may “permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has
an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 387 subd. (d)(2).)
 
Discussion
 
Proposed Intervenor moves the Court for an order granting
leave to file an answer in intervention on behalf of its insured, Defendant
Vintage Industries LLC. Proposed Intervenor argues it has a direct interest in
this matter as it relates to both Defendants Vintage Industries LLC and Rosas. No
opposition has been filed.
 
It is well-settled under California law that “to be
enforceable against an insurer, a ‘judgment need not be based on a contested or
adversarial trial, but may rest upon a default hearing held following a
settlement or an uncontested trial where the insured settled with the claimant
and thereafter presented no defense.’” (Executive Risk Indemnity, Inc. v.
Jones (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 319, 330-31.) Therefore, “an insurer should be
allowed to intervene in an action against its insured when the insurer may be required
to satisfy any judgment entered against the insured and when the insurer's
intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case.” (Id. at n. 11, see
also Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th
383, 386–387, [insurer allowed to intervene when insured barred from defending
because corporate status suspended.) Additionally, “where the insurer may be
subject to a direct action under Insurance Code section 11580 by a judgment
creditor who has or will obtain a default judgment in a third party action
against the insured, intervention is appropriate.” (Reliance Ins. Co., supra,
84 Cal.App.4th at 386.)
 
Here, Proposed Intervenor asserts that Defendant Vintage
Industries LLC did not file an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint because Defendant
Vintage Industries LLC did not receive notice of this action and it has not
been in good standing since 2020. (Steward Decl., ¶ 8.) Proposed Intervenor
argues that because Defendant Vintage Industries LLC cannot defend its own interests,
Proposed Intervenor will be held financially responsible for a default judgment.
Proposed Intervenor additionally asserts it is already litigating this action
through the defense of Defendant Rosas. 
 
The Court finds that Proposed Intervenor has a sufficient
interest to intervene in this case. Additionally, Proposed Intervenor is
already litigating this case through its defense of Defendant Rosas and has not
enlarged the issues originally raised by the parties. 
 
Accordingly, Proposed Intervenor National Unity Insurance
Co.’s motion for leave to file an answer in intervention is GRANTED. National
Unity Insurance Co. is ORDERED to file its answer in intervention within 20
Court days.
 
 
 
 
 