 Case Number:  24NWCV00250    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  C RIVAS, ET AL. v. CAZARES
CASE NO.: 24NWCV00250 
HEARING: 01/22/2025 @ 9:30 a.m.
 
#5
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
I.               
Defendant Sergio Cazares’s unopposed demurrer
to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action are
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
II.             
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause
of action is OVERRULED. 
 
III.           
Defendant’s motion to strike is taken OFF
CALENDAR.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Defendant Sergio Cazares demurs to Plaintiffs Angelica Rivas
and Daniel Rodriguez’s entire complaint. 
 
No opposition filed as of January 18, 2025.
 
Background
 
This is a wrongful eviction case. On January 24, 2024, Angelica
Rivas and Daniel Rodriguez (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against their
landlord Sergio Cazares (Defendant) concerning the residential unit located at 2960
1/2 Clarendon Avenue, Huntington Park, California 90255 (Subject Premises). Plaintiffs
allege that on September 27, 2023, Defendant served a Notice of Sales and Entry
terminating Plaintiffs’ tenancy at the Subject Premises in retaliation for
Plaintiffs’ request for repairs. (Complaint, p. 2.) Plaintiffs also state that
Defendant, owners, and agents of the Subject Premises have entered the Subject
Premises without proper notice. (Complaint, p. 3.) 
 
The complaint asserts seven causes of action: (1) wrongful
eviction, (2) trespass, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) violation
of Business & Profession Code § 17200, (5) intentional misrepresentation,
(6) intentional interference with use of premises, and (7) breach of contract
& the covenant of good faith & fair dealing.
 
Legal Standard
 
Demurrer Standard 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) In assessing a demurrer, the court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether
the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a
cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, at p. 747.) A complaint
will be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
549-50.) 
 
“Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.) 
 
Motion to Strike Standard 
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or objections to
pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer
for damages, etc.). (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435-437.) A motion to strike lies only
where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleadings or by way of
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
The parties have adequately met and conferred. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to all seven causes of action in
Plaintiffs’ complaint on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute causes of action. Defendant’s demurrer is unopposed.
 
          First
Cause of Action – Wrongful Eviction
 
Defendant makes two arguments against the first cause of
action. First, that there is no independent cause of action for wrongful
eviction, and second, that the complaint does not allege an eviction.
 
“California recognizes the tort
of wrongful eviction. ‘The same basic policy against forcible or
other wrongful ouster that gives the tenant the summary remedy to
obtain restoration of possession gives the tenant a tort action for damages
for wrongful eviction.’ ‘An essential element of
a wrongful eviction claim is that the tenant has vacated the
premises.’” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 293 [internal citations omitted].)
 
Here, to Defendant’s first argument, California does
recognize a tort of wrongful eviction. However, it is not clear whether Plaintiffs
are asserting a cause of action for a tort of wrongful eviction. The complaint alleges
that Defendant violated Civil Code section 1941.1, relating to untenantable
dwellings, by serving an unlawful eviction notice. (Complaint, p. 5.) The
complaint recites this statute but does not provide facts establishing how the Subject
Premises was untenantable. Additionally, as Defendant argues, Plaintiffs do not
allege facts that they were evicted. The compliant states that they “currently
reside” in the guest house that they rented out on a month-to-month basis.
(Complaint, p. 3.) Plaintiffs also state that Defendant was terminating
Plaintiff’s tenancy in retaliation for requesting repairs. (Complaint, p. 2.)
However, the complaint goes on to state “plaintiffs will now be forced to leave
their rented guest house, and re-locate to another dwelling place, because of
the many repairs needed on the premises, without adequate notice.” (Complaint,
p. 3.) Plaintiffs state that they are unable to reside in the Subject Premises
while it is being repaired due to their health conditions, and have not been
provided temporary housing. (Complaint, p. 3.) Thus, the complaint lacks facts
alleging that Plaintiffs have left the premises.  The complaint is also unclear about whether Plaintiffs
were evicted in retaliation for requesting repairs, or whether they are unable
to stay in the Subject Premises while it is being repaired. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
          Second
Cause of Action – Trespass
 
“The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership
or control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or
negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts
in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the harm.” (Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs plead facts sufficient to meet the elements
of trespass. First, Plaintiffs state they were entitled to possession based on
a month-to-month lease entered into on January 1, 2019. (Complaint, p. 7.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants made an unauthorized entry “on many occasions” into
the Subject Premises to conduct repairs and to show the property to prospective
buyers. (Complaint, p. 7.) Plaintiffs state that the entry was made without
Plaintiffs permission, without notice, and during non-work hours. (Complaint,
p. 7.) Plaintiffs allege this constituted unwarranted intrusions into the peace
and quiet of their unit resulting in Plaintiffs suffering monetary damages.
(Complaint, p. 7.)  
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to identify with
sufficient particularity the date or time of the alleged trespass.  However, these are facts which may be
obtained through discovery.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
          Third
Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson
v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants acted in an
outrageous manner when they tried to evict the plaintiffs by posting a Notice
of Sale. (Complaint, p. 7.) Defendant argues that posting a “Notice of Sale”
does not constitute outrageous conduct.  The
Court agrees.  Further, as explained
earlier, it is not clear that Defendant evicted Plaintiffs. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Fourth
Cause of Action - Violation of Business & Profession Code § 17200
 
To set forth a claim for a violation
of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (UCL), Plaintiff must establish
Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain
specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair
competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) “What constitutes 'unfair competition’
or 'unfair or fraudulent business practice' under any given set of
circumstances is a question of fact, the essential test being whether the
public is likely to be deceived.” (People v. Toomey (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 1, 16.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that they entered into a “business
relationship” with Defendant on January 1, 2019 when Defendants agreed to rent
out the Subject Premises to Plaintiffs. (Complaint, p. 8.) They allege that
Defendant engaged in an unfair business act by evicting Plaintiffs. (Complaint,
p. 8.) However, as Defendants argue, the allegations here do not reflect a
business practice which is likely to deceive the public. Moreover, given
Plaintiffs’ causes of action alleging breach of contract, this cause of action
is improperly asserted under the UCL. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Fifth
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“The elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its
falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every
element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Here, the complaint states “Defendants… made false
representations to plaintiffs, that the dwelling unit located at [Subject
Premises] would be rented out to them on a month-to-month basis, and that
defendants will ensure habitability. They also represented to the plaintiffs
that the unit was up to code with the County of Los Angeles when such was not
the case.” (Complaint, p. 9.)
 
Plaintiffs have not stated facts sufficient to constitute
intentional misrepresentation. Plaintiffs do not allege that Defendant made a
misrepresentation separate from the terms of the rental agreement. Plaintiffs’
allegations are not pled with particularity, which is required when alleging
fraud. Moreover, Plaintiffs do not state how the property was defective.   
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Sixth
Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with Use of Residential Premises
 
The elements of a claim for breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2)
absence of language contrary to the implied covenant that tenant shall have
quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) act or omission of the landlord, or anyone
claiming under the landlord, which “substantially interfere[s] with a
tenant[’]s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by
the tenancy”; and (4) an applicable remedy. (See Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578,
588-591.)
 
It is unclear what cause of action Plaintiffs allege here.
To the extent Plaintiffs allege a breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment,
Plaintiffs fail to plead facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Plaintiffs
state that Defendant interfered with Plaintiffs’ quiet enjoyment by illegally
evicting the Plaintiffs without a notice to quit. However, as discussed above,
Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts relating to an eviction. 
 
          Seventh
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract and the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff’s
must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiffs.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of
contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms
must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)
 
“A breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the
contractual duty itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair
dealing rather than mistaken judgment.” (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere
contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same
damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of
action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is
actually stated … [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id. at pp. 1394-1395.) 
 
As a preliminary matter, by claiming
breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing in the same cause of action, the Court assumes that Plaintiffs are not
claiming that there is a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing beyond the contract.
 
For Plaintiffs seventh cause of
action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant breached the contract and covenant by
evicting Plaintiffs without a notice to quit. (Complaint, p. 10.) While
Plaintiffs meet the first element of a breach of contract claim by attaching
the Rental Agreement, Plaintiffs plead contradictory facts regarding the
alleged eviction. The complaint alleges both that Plaintiffs were served with a
Notice of Sale terminating the tenancy and that Plaintiffs currently reside at
the Subject Premises and require temporary housing during its repairs.
(Complaint, p. 2-3.) Therefore, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently pled facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer
to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant’s court reservation states that Defendant reserved
a demurrer with a motion to strike. However, Defendant has not filed a motion
to strike. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is taken OFF CALENDAR.