  Case Number:  22SMCV02485    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  London Calling Entertainment,
INC v. NKSFB, LLC, et al. 



Case No.:


22SMCV02485


Complaint Filed:


11-30-22         




Hearing Date:


   11-22-24


Discovery C/O:


8-19-24




Calendar No.:


`` 10


Discovery Motion C/O:


9-2-24




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


9-16-24



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants NKSFB, LLC and
KSFB Management, LLC
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs London
Calling Entertainment, INC 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
            Defendants NKSFB,
LLC and KSFB Management, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judment on  Plaintiffs London Calling Entertainment, Inc’s
Complaint is GRANTED. Defendants meets their initial burden to provide undisputed
material facts to show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's first and
second causes of action cannot be met. Plaintiff does not meet its burden to show
there are triable issues material fact regarding its claims for breach of contract
and breach of confidence. 
 
            Plaintiff
London Calling Entertainment, INC Objections No.1 and 2 to the Segal
Declaration are SUSTAINED.  Objection No.
1 to the Roses Declaration is SUSTAINED. 
 
            Ruling on Defendants
NKSFB, LLC and KSFB Management, LLC evidentiary objections:
1.    
Leader Declaration ¶ 5 is SUSTAINED as to the word
“novel” only – legal conclusion. 
2.    
Leader Declaration ¶ 6 is SUSTAINED – hearsay, foundation.
3.    
Leader Declaration ¶ 12 is SUSTAINED – foundation, speculation.
4.    
Leader Declaration ¶ 15 is SUSTAINED as to Multiple
partners of NKSFB, including Mr. Oppenheim, assisted with the SVOG applications
for the loan-out companies of their touring musician clients — foundation.
5.    
Leader Declaration ¶ 15 is SUSTAINED as to “I became
aware of NKSFB’s chicanery only because “ — foundation.
6.    
Leader Declaration ¶ 17 is OVERRULED— party admission.
7.
 Leader Declaration ¶ 19 is SUSTAINED—speculative,
lacks foundation.
8.
 Leader Declaration ¶ 20 is SUSTAINED—argumentative,
leg, not appropriate for declarations.
9. 
Leader Declaration ¶ 21 is SUSTAINED as to “I also understand NKSFB
asserts that its and KSFB Partner Melissa Earnhart’s significant other
submitted a SVOG application for her client Right Angle Entertainment, LP
(“Right Angle”).” — speculative, lacks foundation. 
10. 
Leader Declaration ¶ 21 is SUSTAINED as to “Accordingly, Right Angle’s
application is also irrelevant”—argumentative, not appropriate for declarations
11.  Piesen-Love Declaration ¶ 5 is SUSTAINED – foundation,
speculation as to whether Kaplan understood that the inquiry was made in confidence
with respect to Mr. Leader’s interpretation of Meleco’s eligibility. 
 
 
 
 
REASONING
 
I.  Defendants have
shown that one or more elements of Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach
of implied-in-fact contract cannot be established. 
 

            In its first amended complaint, Plaintiff London Calling
Entertainment, INC (“Plaintiff”) alleges a implied contract was formed with
Defendants when Plaintiff disclosed his idea that loan-out companies of touring
music artists and bands qualified for awards under the Shuttered Venue Operator
Grants (“SVOG”) program by using the “live performing arts organization
operators” eligibility category.  Plaintiff
alleges its disclosure of this novel idea to Defendants was done “in confidence
and with the understanding Plaintiff would be paid a 15% commission on monies received
by [Defendant’s] clients.” (Amended Complaint, p. 7.) 
 
            "[T]o prevail on a cause of action for breach of
implied-in-fact contract, plaintiffs must show (1) they clearly conditioned the
submission of their ideas on an obligation to pay for any use of their ideas;
(2) the defendants, knowing this condition before the plaintiffs disclosed the
ideas, voluntarily accepted the submission of the ideas; and (3) the defendants
found the ideas valuable and actually used them—that is, the defendants
based their work substantially on the plaintiffs' ideas, rather than on their
own ideas or ideas from other sources." (Spinner v. American
Broadcasting Companies, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 172, 184.) “When
plaintiffs do not have direct evidence of use, they may raise an inference of
use by showing the defendants had access to their ideas and the defendants'
work is substantially similar to the plaintiffs' ideas.” (Id., at pp. 184–185.)
 
            “An obligation to pay
could not be inferred from the mere fact of submission on a theory that
everyone knows that the idea man expects to be paid.” (Faris v. Enberg (1979) 97 Cal.App.3d 309, 319.) 
“The idea man who blurts out his idea without having first made his
bargain has no one but himself to blame for the loss of his bargaining power.
The law will not in any event, from demands stated subsequent to the
unconditioned disclosure of an abstract idea, imply a promise to pay for the
idea, for its use, or for its previous disclosure.” (Desny v. Wilder (1956) 46 Cal.2d 715, 739.) 
 
A.   
Defendant’s Burden
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish the first and second elements of the breach
if implied-in-fact contract cause of action because “the undisputed
evidence demonstrates that Lawrence Leader (“Leader”), the Chief Executive
Officer of Plaintiff, disclosed its idea to NKSFB unconditionally at least a
month before he claims he formed an implied contract with NKSFB.  The Court agrees.   
 
As observed in Desny, supra,
the “conveyance of an idea can constitute valuable consideration and can be
bargained for before it is disclosed to the proposed purchaser, but once
it is conveyed, i. e., disclosed to him and he has grasped it, it is henceforth
his own and he may work with it and use it as he sees fit.” (46 Cal.2d at pp. 737–738.)  
 
It is undisputed that no contract was formed between the parties prior to the July 22, 2021,
meeting between Leader and Oppenheim. (PSS 4.) What the evidence shows is that Mr
Leader unilaterally disclosed the idea to submit “SVOG” grant applications on
behalf of touring entities as ‘live performing arts organization operators’ to
NKSFB managers prior in the months preceding the July 22, 2021, admittedly without
any any agreement Defendant would pay Plaintiff a commission if Defendants used
that idea to submit SVOG grant applications for its clients. (SSUF, ¶¶ 4, 7, 9,
11, 14, 16, 19, 20; O’Donnell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 45 [Plaintiff’s Response to RFA Nos.
7, 8]; Wong Decl., ¶¶ 6–16, Ex. 8–11; Salzman Decl., ¶¶ 9–16, Ex. 1–3; Roses
Decl. ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. 6; Masuda Decl., ¶¶ 3–4, 8–11, Ex. 18–21; Segal Decl., ¶¶
7–11. Ex. 38–40; Neuman Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8–9,12–13.) 
 
Defendants have met their initial
burden to show Plaintiff cannot establish the first and second  elements of the breach of implied-in-fact
cause of action. The burden shifts to the Plaintiff to show there are triable
issues of fact as to these elements. 
 
B.   
Plaintiff’s Burden
 
Plaintiff argues in June, 2021when Plaintiff
disclosed his idea to NKSFB partners, managers, and clients Robert Salzman
(“Salzman”), Bessie Wong (“Wong”), Harley Neuman (“Neuman”), Jason Latimer
(“Latimer”), Paul Anka Productions (“PAP”), David Koz (“Kos”), and Masuda, each
party was informed that Plaintiff’s idea was confidential, the idea was being
disclosed in confidence, and the idea was accepted on this basis. (SSUF, ¶¶ 10,
12, 13, 17, 18, 21; Busch Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1 (Leader Deposition), at pp. 73:12-74:19,
86:5-90:15, 90:16-92:20, 105:8-107:8, 209:12-25, 210:18- 22, 214:2-215:12,
217:4-218:14, 221:7-223:21; Leader Decl., ¶ 9.) 
However, Plaintiff presents no
evidence that these disclosures were made only after Plaintiff clearly conditioned
that disclosure on NKSFB’s agreement to pay for its use, and NKSFB accepted that
condition. The obligation to be paid cannot be inferred from the fact that the
NKSFB parties should have expected Plaintiff to be paid from the idea. (See Faris, supra, 97 Cal.App.3d at p. 319.; Aliotti v. R.
Dakin & Co. (9th Cir. 1987) 831 F.2d 898, 902, citations
omitted, applying California law [“If disclosure occurs before it is known that
compensation is a condition of its use, ... no contract will be implied.”].) Plaintiff’s
argument the disclosures of his idea in June 2021, were made with the
understanding that the idea was confidential does not meet the elements of an
implied in fact contract to pay for the use of that idea as alleged in Plaintiff’s
first cause of action. (Amended Complaint, ¶ 29. (“Plaintiff’s implied in fact
contract was with NKSFB. NKSFB was thus the party responsible for payment to
Plaintiff. The idea was that Plaintiff’s novel idea would thus only be shared
by NKSFB with the clients with the understanding that NKSFB would be responsible
for payments to Plaintiff for the successful obtaining of grants by clients....
NKSFB was the one in contract with Plaintiff and the party responsible for
payment to Plaintiff.”)
 
The Court finds the undisputed
evidence shows that, before Mr. Oppenheim invited Mr. Leader to meet with
Defendant’s managers on July 29, 2022, Mr. Leader unilaterally disclosed his
idea to multiple NKSFB managers, including Rob Salzman, Bessy Wong, Greg Roses,
Harley Neuman, and Jason Latimer all without conditioning the submission of his
idea, before its disclosure, on an obligation by NKSFB to pay for its
use. (SSUF, ¶¶ 7, 9, 11, 16l Leader Decl. ¶ 9; Salzman Decl. ¶¶ 11, 15; Wong
Decl. ¶ 15; Roses Decl. ¶ 7; Neuman Decl. ¶ 8.) It is undisputed Mr. Leader first
told Mr. Oppenheimer at the July 22, 2022 meeting that that he was receiving a commission
from Bridgeway (one of Defendant’s clients), and that he “expected to be
compensated similarly by NKSFB if NKSFB or its clients used Mr. Leader’s
idea.” (PSS 162.)
 
No competent evidence shows Plaintiff
conditioned his disclosure of his idea to Defendants on Defendant’s agreement
to pay Plaintiff a commission based on some percentage of any grant award received
by Defendant’s clients. Instead, Plaintiff points to evidence that Defendants knew
Plaintiff had contracted with two of Defendant’s clients who had respectively agreed
to pay Plaintiff 10% or 15% of any SVOG grant award they received using
Plaintiff’s idea. [PSS 7, 13, 14.]  From that
knowledge, Plaintiff claims Defendant should have known Plaintiff expected to
be compensated directly by Defendant if Defendant used or disclosed Plaintiff’s
idea to Defendant’s clients who thereafter were awarded a SVOG grant. (See, Amended
Complaint,  ¶16, p. 8:7-8.)  There is no evidence showing Defendant had such
knowledge or should have known that Defendant, (as opposed to the grant
recipient) would be obligated to pay Plaintiff a percentage of any SVOG grant Defendant’s
clients might receive. The Court finds no reasonable jury could find or infer
from this evidence, that Plaintiff conditioned its disclosure of his idea on
Defendant’s agreement to pay Plaintiff a percentage of any SVOG grant awarded
to Defendant’s clients.
 
Plaintiff does not meet their
burden to show a triable issue of material fact as to the first and second element
of the 1st cause of action for breach of implied-in-fact contract. Because Plaintiff cannot establish the first and second
elements of its claim for breach of implied-in-fact contract, summary adjudication
on that claim in favor of Defendant is proper.
 

II.  Plaintiff cannot establish one or more elements
of its second cause of action for breach of confidence. 
 
“In order to recover on the theory
of breach of confidence, the plaintiff has the burden of establishing by a
preponderance of the evidence all of the facts necessary to prove each of the
following issues: [¶] (1) that plaintiff conveyed substantially secret
information to [defendant]; [¶] (2) that the confidential nature of such
information was made known to [defendant] before plaintiff's disclosure of it
to [defendant]; [¶] (3) that before disclosure by plaintiff, [defendant] had an
opportunity to reject receipt of the information on a confidential basis; [¶]
(4) that [defendant] voluntarily accepted said information with the
understanding and in agreement that it would keep the information confidential;
[¶] (5) that [defendant] disclosed such information in breach of confidence;
[¶] (6) that [a third-party or Defendant] used said information . . .; [¶] (7)
that such use was the proximate cause of damage to the plaintiff; and [¶] (8)
the nature and extent of such damages. [¶].” (Tele-Count Engineers, Inc. v.
Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 455, 461.)
 
“To prevail on a claim for breach
of confidence under California law, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) the
plaintiff conveyed “confidential and novel information” to the defendant; (2)
the defendant had knowledge that the information was being disclosed in
confidence; (3) there was an understanding between the defendant and the
plaintiff that the confidence be maintained; and (4) there was a disclosure or
use in violation of the understanding.” (Entertainment Research Group, Inc.
v. Genesis Creative Group, Inc. (9th Cir. 1997) 122 F.3d 1211, 1227, citing
Tele-Count Engineers, Inc., supra, 168 Cal.App.3d at pp. 462–466.)
 
A ”cause of action for breach of
confidence requires a finding that respondents actually used appellants'
confidential information to their benefit.” (Hollywood Screentest, supra,
151 Cal.App.4th at p. 651.)
 
In protecting property rights in
ideas, California has long recognized that an idea “must be something novel and
new” but that this “question of originality… is one of fact for the
determination of the jury.” (Yadkoe v. Fields (1944) 66 Cal.App.2d 150,
159.)
 
A.   
Defendant’s Burden
 
Preliminarily, the Court agrees
with NKSFB that Plaintiff forming an opinion from reading a Federal statue regarding
who could be eligible for a SVOG grant award is not a novel idea that can be
the subject of a claim for breach of confidence. Plaintiff does not claim he created
any unique method to compile an application for a SVOG grant.  But rather, he simply formed an opinion that some
of Defenant’s clients of performing artists who perform through a “loan out
company” or “touring entity” would be eligible for a SVOG grant under the SBA definition
of “performing arts organization operators.”
 
Moreover,  NKSFB shows Plaintiff’s SVOG grant idea was
not novel or unique, but rather is the same idea was being used separately and
independently by multiple third parties, including Rambo, Kaplan, Jamie
Humphres, MySVOG.com, Get My Funds, LLC, and NKSFB’s own Melissa Earnhart who read
the statute in the same way as Plaintiff and communicated this reading of the
statute to third persons, including NKSFB. (SSUF, ¶¶ 30, 34-36, 38-43, 47, 101–103;
Jaime Decl. ¶¶ 4-10, Ex. 32-33; Millsap Decl. ¶¶ 5-8, Ex. 26-28; Earnhart Decl.
¶¶ 3-8; Salzman Decl. ¶¶ 19-20; Parks Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. 37)  
 
Likewise, the Court agrees NKSFB has
shown Plaintiff cannot establish its idea was substantially secret because Mr. Leader
publicly disclosed the idea to the Federal government by submitting SVOG
applications on behalf two of its touring musician clients, without any
expectation of confidentiality. (See Plaintiff’s Additional Separate Statement
(“PASS”), ¶ 164; Busch Declaration, ¶ 2, Ex. 1 (Leader Deposition),
169:5-182:5; Leader Declaration, ¶ 13.) 
 
            Thus, NKSFB
has met their initial burden to show that Plaintiff cannot meet the novel and
substantially secret elements of a breach of confidence claim. 
 
B.   
Plaintiff’s Burden
 
Plaintiff argues that the trier of
fact may find that Plaintiff’s idea was novel from his claim to be the first person
to come up with the idea that loan out entities of touring music artists and
bands could successfully qualify for SVOG awards under the live performing arts
organization operators eligibility category. (SSUF, ¶¶ 54, 103.)  However, this evidence does show the Mr.
Leaders opinion regarding who could be eligible was actually novel.  
 
Nor does Mr. Leader’s opinion show no
one else had the same opinion or idea, 
Indeed, the undisputed evidence shows NKSFB already knew of the idea. (SSUF,
¶¶ 29-30, 32-33; Wong Decl. ¶¶ 3-5, Ex. 7; Roses Decl. ¶ 4; Segal Decl. ¶ 5;
Jaime Decl. ¶¶ 4-10, Ex. 32-33; Parks Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 36; Earnhart Decl. ¶ 3-5,
Ex. 29, 30.) The undisputed evidence shows that in April 2021, —three months
prior to the meetings with Plaintiff that  Oppenheim and his team knew and understood in
April 2021 that a musician’s touring entity, like YG’s entity, could apply for
and potentially receive the grant.  (SSUF,
¶ 30; Jaime Decl. ¶¶ 4-10, Ex. 32-33). 
 
Finally, additionally, Plaintiff
does not provide any authority or evidence that Plaintiff’s disclosure of the
idea through Plaintiff’s successful SVOG applications submitted to the Federal
government, via the SBA, prior to the NKSFB disclosure, will not bar Plaintiff
from a breach of confidentiality claim. Thus, it follows that Plaintiff cannot
prove the element of the idea being a substantial secret when the idea was
voluntarily disclosed, made public, via a federal government application
process.  There is no evidence the SBA
had any obligation to keep any grant applications secret.  Indeed, Leader claims he was able to who was
awarded SVOG grants on the SBA website. (See Leader Decl., Ex. 13.) The Court
agrees no reasonable jury can find NKSFB Plaintiff’s idea was substantially
secret after Plaintiff publicly disclosed that idea to the Federal government.
 
            Thus, Plaintiff
fails to meet its burden to show raise a triable issue of fact exists as to the
novelty and substantial secret elements of the 2nd cause of action
for breach of confidence. Because Plaintiff cannot establish the elements of novelty
and substantial secrecy of its idea,  summary
adjudication on that claim in favor of Defendant is proper.