  Case Number:  24AHCV00125    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



TAICHANDRA FYELDEES, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ALLIED
   PACIFIC IPA,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24AHCV00125
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August 8,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On January 22, 2024, plaintiff
Taichandra Fyeldees (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Allied Pacific IPA
and Does 1 to 10. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on February 16, 2024, correctly
naming Allied Physicians of California dba Allied Pacific IPA (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 to 10. A proof of service filed on March 25, 2024, shows that Defendant
was personally served through its registered agent for service of process on
February 28, 2024. 
On April 8, 2024, default was entered
against Defendant. On May 2, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to set aside and
vacate the entry of default. Defendant also requests the Court judicially
notice records from a related case filed by Plaintiff against Defendant,
captioned Taichandra Fyeldees v. Allied Pacific IPA, et al. (Case No.
22STCV18790) (the “Earlier Acton”). The request is GRANTED. 
A judge may grant relief from default
or a default judgment on the ground of the defendant's excusable neglect if the
defendant shows a reasonable excuse for the default. (Jackson v Bank of
America (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 55, 58.) The defendant has the burden of
proving excusable neglect by a preponderance of the evidence. (Bonzer v City
of Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1478.)
In its original moving papers, Defendant
stated in its brief that it did not provide the complaint to its counsel,
W&D Law, LLP, until after Plaintiff requested the entry of default due to
“inadvertence and excusable neglect” but only submitted the declaration of
defense counsel as evidence. (Motion, p. 4.) Therefore, on June 25, 2024, the
Court continued the hearing on this motion to allow Defendant to submit a
declaration from a corporate representative with personal knowledge of the
“inadvertence and excusable neglect” upon which this motion is purportedly
based. 
On June 27, 2024, Defendant filed the
declaration of its chief executive officer, Thomas Lam, M.D., M.P.H. (“Dr. Lam”).
Dr. Lam declares that when Defendant’s agent for service was served with a copy
of the Complaint, “they at first mistakenly assumed that it related to [the
Earlier Action] and therefore by virtue of inadvertence and excusable neglect
[Defendant] did not provide Plaintiff’s present complaint to its insurance
carrier until after Plaintiff had taken [Defendant]’s default.” (Lam Decl., ¶
3.) The agent for service is unidentified in declaration and Dr. Lam, the
declarant, does not state if he was the agent for service who was under said
mistaken assumption. The “they” to which the declaration refers are not identified
but, presumably, the declaration should have been made by one of such persons
to avoid it being inadmissible hearsay. Accordingly, based on what has been
provided to the Court, it appears that Dr. Lam lacks personal knowledge to make
this declaration and that the motion is predicated on inadmissible hearsay.
Therefore, Defendant fails to show by a preponderance of the evidence that
there was any inadvertence or excusable mistake that would justify setting
aside the default. 
The motion is DENIED without prejudice.

Dated
this 8th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.