 Case Number:  23STCV24947    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV24947




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(2)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories 
(3)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Demand for Production




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Gevorg Khachatryan and Vardan
  Aghayan




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Defendants Gevorg Khachatryan and Vardan
Aghayan (“Defendants”) now move for an order to compel verified responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Demand for Production, Set One propounded on Plaintiff Donnel
Stinson (“Plaintiff”). No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant asserts that they served Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for
Production, Set One on Plaintiff on February 5, 2024.
(Wenning Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Responses were due March 8, 2024. Defendant
granted unilateral extensions, and the responses were due April 15, 2024. (Id.
¶ 8.) Since then, Plaintiff has not responded. (Id. ¶ 11.) Therefore,
since responses have not been served, the motions to compel are
granted.   
 
Defendants request $561.65 in monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel of record for each motion,
representing an hourly rate of $250 and the $61.65 filing fee. The Court finds
sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff has failed to respond. However, the
amount requested is excessive due to the type of motions at issue and the fact
no opposition was filed. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of
$1,309.95 (1.5 hours of attorney time to file and appear at the hearing, plus
the $61.65 filing fee, for each of the three motions to compel).  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants Gevorg Khachatryan and
Vardan Aghayan’s Motions to Compel Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for
Production, Set One are GRANTED. Plaintiff Donnel
Stinson shall serve verified responses without
objections within 20 days. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and his attorney of record, jointly and severally,
in the reduced amount of $1,309.95.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendants within 20 days
of the date of this order. 
  
Defendants shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 