 Case Number:  22STCV19216    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19216




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Entry of Default and Default Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Ginz & Associates, Inc.  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 13, 2022, Plaintiff MCI
Communications Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Ginz & Associates, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10 for an
alleged damage to personal property.  
 
On November 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of the
complaint on Defendant’s registered agent via substitute service. 
 
On December 19, 2022, default was entered against Defendant.
 
On September 29, 2023, the Court granted default judgment against
Defendant for $35,187.96 in damages and $564.97 in costs. 
 
On October 31, 2023, Defendant filed a notice of appeal of the default
judgment. Then, on February 26, 2024, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal
without prejudice, for failure to file and serve a notice of representation. 
 
On March 27, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to set aside the
default and default judgment based on Code of Civil Procedure sections 473(d)
and 473.5, and equitable relief. No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Generally, a party who has not actually been served with
summons has three avenues of relief from a default judgment.” (Trackman v.
Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175, 180.) First, they may move under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 473.5 (applied where service was proper but did not
result in actual notice) or section 473(d) (judgment is valid on its face but
void due to improper service). (Id.) Second, the party may seek
equitable relief showing “that extrinsic fraud or mistake exists, such as a
falsified proof of service, and such a motion may be made at any time, provided
the party acts with diligence upon learning of the relevant facts.” (Id.
at 181.) These first two methods “generally hinge on evidence about the method
of purported service.” (Id.) Lastly, the party may move under section
473(d) that the default judgment is facially void. (Id.)
 
Section 473.5
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5, “[w]hen
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.”
¿This motion must be brought “within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written
notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 473.5(a).)  
¿¿¿ 
The focus of section 473.5 is whether the defaulting party
obtained actual notice in time to defend the action.¿“Discretionary relief
based upon a lack of actual notice under section 473.5 empowers a court to
grant relief from a default judgment where a valid service of summons has not
resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action.”¿ (Anastos
v. Lee (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1314, 1319.)¿“A party seeking relief under
section 473.5 must provide an affidavit showing under oath that his or her lack
of actual notice in time to defend was not caused by inexcusable neglect or
avoidance of service.”¿(Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5(b).)¿The term
“actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party litigant.”¿(Rosenthal
v. Garner (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 891, 895.)¿ 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the record
does not show that Plaintiff served written notice of the entry of default or
granting of default judgment, on Defendant. Plaintiff has received notice of
this motion and has not filed an opposition setting forth facts to the contrary.
Therefore, the deadline for bringing this motion under section 473.5 is two
years after the default judgment was granted: September 29, 2025. Since
Defendant filed this motion on March 27, 2024, it is timely. 
 
Defendant argues that Godfrey Nzeogu is
the registered agent for Defendant. The proof of service shows that on October
10, 2022, Defendant was served by substitute service at a UPS store that
contains a rented mailbox for Defendant. (Proof of Service, filed 11/9/22.) The
proof of service indicates that the summons and complaint were served on “Tim
‘Doe’ (Declined Full Name), Clerk, UPS Store (person apparently in charge)
Description: Hispanic, Mail, 30+ yrs old, 5’ 6’’ tall, 150 lbs., Black hair.” 
 
“A summons may be served on a corporation
by delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint by any of the following
methods:
 
(a) To the person designated as agent for
service of process as provided by any provision in Section 202, 1502, 2105, or
2107 of the Corporations Code . . . (b) To the president, chief executive
officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or
assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief
financial officer, a general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation
to receive service of process.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10.) 
 
“[I]f the only address reasonably known for the person to
be served is a private mailbox obtained through a commercial mail receiving
agency [CMRA], service of process may be effected on the first delivery attempt
by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the commercial mail
receiving agency in the manner described in subdivision (d) of Section 17538.5
of the Business and Professions Code.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20(c).)  
 
Business and Professions Code
section 17538.5(d)(1) states the following: 
 
“Every person receiving private mailbox receiving service
from a CMRA in this state shall be required to sign an agreement, along with a
USPS Form 1583, which authorizes the CMRA owner or operator to act as agent for
service of process for the mail receiving service customer. Every CMRA owner or
operator shall be required to accept service of process for and on behalf of
any of their mail receiving service customers, and for two years after
termination of any mail receiving service customer agreement. Upon receipt of
any process for any mailbox service customer, the CMRA owner or operator shall
(A) within 48 hours after receipt of any process, place a copy of the documents
or a notice that the documents were received into the customer's mailbox or
other place where the customer usually receives his or her mail, unless the
mail receiving service for the customer was previously terminated, and (B)
within five days after receipt, send all documents by first-class mail, to the
last known home or personal address of the mail receiving service customer. The
CMRA shall obtain a certificate of mailing in connection with the mailing of
the documents. Service of process upon the mail receiving service customer
shall then be deemed perfected 10 days after the date of mailing. 
 
If the CMRA owner or operator has complied with the
foregoing requirements and provides to any party participating in a lawsuit
involving a mail receiving service customer a declaration of service by mail,
given under penalty of perjury along with a certificate of mailing, the CMRA
owner or operator shall have no further liability in connection with acting as
agent for service of process for its mail receiving service customer.”    
 
Here, Defendant provides the Declaration
of Godfrey Nzeogu, who declares under penalty of perjury that he rented the
subject mailbox at the UPS Store described in the proof of service. (Nzeogu
Decl. ¶ 2.) As part of the process of renting the mailbox, he provided a
personal mailing address to the UPS Store. (Id. ¶ 3.) Furthermore, he
states the following: “I never received a summons and complaint
in this lawsuit in the mailbox. I never received a mail from the UPS Store that
contained any summons and complaint in this lawsuit. No summons and complaint
was mailed to me at the UPS Store by the plaintiff in this case. During the
course of my dealing with the UPS Store, the only person that works in the UPS
Store that is named Tim is Asian, presently 29 years old (27 years in 2022),
black hair, about 5’7” and weight unknown.” (Id. ¶ 4–7.) 
 
Based on the declaration, Defendant
has shown that its lack of actual notice to defend
the action was not caused by inexcusable neglect or avoidance of service, since
Nzeogu declares he did not receive a summons or complaint in the UPS mailbox.
Additionally, Defendant has attached a copy of its proposed answer. Plaintiff
does not oppose and therefore, fails to set forth facts showing that Defendant
had actual notice. As a result, the motion for relief under section 473.5 is
granted. Since the motion is granted, the Court declines to apply section
473(d) and equitable relief. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the
Default and Default Judgment. 
 
Defendant shall file and serve its proposed
answer within 10 days. 
 
The Final Status Conference is set
for January 15, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse.
 
Trial is set for January 29, 2025
at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 