  Case Number:  21STCV21531    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ANDIAMO GRUPO, LLC., a Nevada limited liability company,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RANCHO PACIFIC RESORTS, LLC, a California limited liability
  company; WILLIAM ANGEL (aka BILL ANGEL), an individual; BRIAN WEST, an
  individual; MICHAEL MONTGOMERY, an individual; and DOES 1 through 20,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
RANCHO PACIFIC RESORTS, LLC, a California limited liability
  company; WILLIAM ANGEL, an individual; BRIAN WEST, an individual; MICHAEL
  MONTGOMERY, an individual; and PLAYAS DEL PARAISO RESORT COMPANY S. De R.L.
  De C.V.,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
ANDIAMO GRUPO, LLC., a Nevada limited liability company; RICHARD
  ARONS, an individual; LAURA BALEGEER, an individual; HACIENDA SAN LORENZE S.
  De R.L. De C.V., a Mexican corporation; BOLERO S. De R.L. De C.V. and ROES 1
  through 500, inclusive, 
                        Cross-Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          21STCV21531
 Hearing Date:   November
  5, 2024
 Trial Date:        April
  8, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Quash
  Service and/or Dismiss the Cross-Complaint of Cross-Defendants Laura Balegeer,
  Hacienda San Lorenzo S. De R.L. C.V., and Bolero S.DE R.L. DE C.V. [RES ID # 5023]
 



 
I. Background
A.   
Pleadings
Plaintiff Andiamo Grupo, LLC (Andiamo)
sues Defendants Rancho Pacific Resorts, LLC, (Rancho Pacific) William Angel
(Angel), Brian West, and Michael Montgomery (collectively, the Defendants) for
(1) Breach of Contract and (2) Breach of Guaranty, pursuant to a June 8, 2021
Complaint. 
On August 5, 2021, the Defendants answered
the complaint alleging various affirmative defenses.  
On June 21, 20222 the Defendants
and Playas Del Paraiso Resort Company S. De R.L. De C.V. (Playas Del Paraiso), filed
a second amended cross-complaint (collectively, the Cross-Complainants), against
Andiamo and Richard Arons (Arons), Laura Balegeer (Balegeer), Hacienda San
Lorenzo S. De R.L. De C.V. (Hacienda), Bolero S. De R.L. De C.V. (Bolero), and
Roes 1 through 500 (collectively, the Cross-Defendants). The cross-complaint alleges
claims of (1) Breach of Written Contract, (2) Breach of the Implied Covenants
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Fraud [Promise Without Intent to Perform], (4)
Monies Had and Received, (5) Account Stated, (6) Accounting, and (7)
Declaratory Relief. 
On July 26, 2022, cross-defendants
Andiamo and Arons filed a joint answer to the Second Amended Complaint alleging
various affirmative defenses. 
Default was entered as to Balegeer
and Bolero on March 20, 2024. Default was entered as to Hacienda on April 9,
2024. 
The claims arise from a series of
contracts pertaining to investment in a resort property, Playas Del Paraiso,
located in San Felipe, Mexico. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants and Defendants/Cross-Complainants
entered into various agreements including a promissory note and guaranty, which
Defendants/Cross-Complainants have since defaulted on. In its cross-complaint, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
allege, among other things, that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants breached the agreements
in various ways including failing to pay maintenance fees and the balance of
the purchase and sale contract. In brief, each party claims that the other owes
them substantial amounts of money related to the Playas Del Paraiso project. 
B.   
Relevant Procedural History
On June 25, 2024, Cross-Defendants Balegeer,
Hacienda, and Bolero, and filed a “motion to quash service and/or dismiss the
cross complaint” citing the Code of Civil Procedure sections 473, 473.5 and
418.10, seeking an order “vacating the pending clerk’s defaults and/or default
judgments against each of them” or dismissing the cross-complaint as to
Hacienda and Bolero (the Mexican Entities) (Notice of Motion and Mot., pp. 1-2
and 5.) They argue that the purported service of process on each of them was
insufficient to establish personal jurisdiction, and that the court does not
have subject matter jurisdiction over the action. 
On August 16, 2024, the
Cross-Complainants opposed the motion, arguing that the Court does have
personal and subject matter jurisdiction over the parties and causes of action
alleged in the SAC.
On August 16, 2024,
Cross-Defendants Andiamo and Arons filed an opposition to the motion, arguing
that service was properly carried out on Balegeer, Hacienda, and Bolero, and
requesting that the defaults remain in place.
The motion came for hearing before
the Court on August 29, 2024. The Court denied the motion on the grounds that the
motion was not accompanied by a proposed answer to the SAC, as required by Code
of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b). 
C.   
Motion Before the Court 
On October 1, 2024,
Cross-Defendants Balegeer, Hacienda, and Bolero resubmitted the motion along
with a proposed answer to the SAC. 
On October 7, 2024,
Cross-Defendants Balegeer, Hacienda, and Bolero submitted a notice of errata with
an amended proposed answer to the SAC. 
On October 22, 2024, the
Cross-Complainants opposed the motion.
On October 23, 2024, Cross-Defendants
Andiamo and Arons also filed an opposition. 
On October 28, 2024, Cross-Defendants
Balegeer, Hacienda, and Bolero replied. 
 
II. Motion
A.   
Evidentiary Objections
Objections Nos. 1-4: OVERRULED 
B.   
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section
415.20 subdivision (b) provides: “If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served
[…] a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at
the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office box…”

“A motion for relief under section
473 is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and an appellate
court will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an abuse.
[Citation.] The statute is remedial and should be liberally applied to carry
out the policy of permitting trial on the merits, but the moving party has the
burden of showing good cause. [Citations.]” (David v. Thayer (1980) 133
Cal.App.3d 892, 904-905.) 
Section 473 subdivision (b) of the
Code of Civil Procedure provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief
from a judgment, dismissal, and/or order or other proceeding taken against a
party through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b) [mandatory relief more narrowly targeted to
defaults, default judgments, and dismissals]; Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) 
The discretionary provision of
section 473, subdivision (b), states that “[t]he court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Application for this relief shall be accompanied
by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein and be
made within a reasonable time not exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).) 
Section 473.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure
allows for a motion to set aside a default up to two years after entry of default
or 180 days of service on him or her of a written notice that default or
default judgment has been entered. However, this provision is available only “[w]hen
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action.”
 
C.   
Analysis 
First, Cross-Defendants Hacienda,
Bolero, and Balegeer argue that service was not proper upon Hacienda and Bolero
because the companies were improperly served at a Mailbox International
location. According to proofs of service on file with the court, the SAC was
served on Balegeer individually and on Balegeer on behalf of Bolero on February
14, 2024, and on Balegeer on behalf of Hacienda on April 4, 2024. The address
where the parties were served is listed as a Mailbox International location in
Woodland Hills. 
However, Cross-Complainants point
out that under California law, it is only a United States Postal Office that
cannot serve as an address for substitute service. Balegeer’s address was a
commercial post office, which can receive substitute service after efforts to
personally serve. (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 545-546.)
Prior to effecting service at the Mailbox International location,
Cross-Complainants made several attempts to serve Balegeer and the Mexican
entities (Opp. p. 6:16-19.)
Cross-Defendants Hacienda, Bolero,
and Balegeer argue that only Balegeer is listed as the recipient for mail at
the Mailbox International location, and thus service was ineffective as to
Hacienda and Bolero. Balegeer admits that she had actual notice of the summons
and complaint, but she mistakenly believed that the service at the Mailbox
International was not valid pursuant to California law. (Balegeer Decl., ¶13) 
In her declaration Balegeer also
states that she is “personally familiar with the management and activities of
the two Mexican corporations, [Hacienda] and [Bolero].” (Balegeer Decl., ¶4.)
She goes on to aver, under penalty of perjury, that neither of them have conducted
business in the State of California “now or at any time,” that “[t]hey simply
hold title to real property in the nation of Mexico,” and they were not placed
on a mail box at Mailbox International nor rented mail boxes in either of their
names. (Id. at ¶¶5, 10-11.) 
Service on an officer or manager of
an entity on behalf of the entities is effective service on the entities. (Code
of Civil Procedure §416.10(b).) For out-of-state or foreign corporations,
service may be made on “any officer of the corporation or its general manager
in this state.” (CA Corp. § 210.) 
Thus, service was proper on Balegeer
and both entities, Hacienda and Bolero.
Next, Cross-Defendants Hacienda,
Bolero, and Balegeer argue that the default should be set aside under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 473 subdivision (b) and 473.5 subdivision (a). Balegeer
asserts that she did not timely file a response because she “mistakenly
believed that the delivery of documents to [her] at a private mail facility was
not valid service pursuant to California Law.” (Balegeer Decl. ¶ 13.) However,
the opposition shows that Balegeer was aware of the claims against her and the
Hacienda and Bolero “since at least March 2, 2022, and as late as December 15,
2022.” (Asatourian Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8, Ex. A.) Moreover, relief under the
discretionary portion of section 473 subdivision (b) requires that the motion
be brought within six months. This motion was filed on October 1, 2024, while
the defaults as to Balegeer and Bolero were entered on March 20, 2024. The
statute ran on September 20, 2024, which was three weeks after this Court’s
prior ruling as to the original motion to set aside the defaults. Thus,
Balegeer clearly had actual notice of the actions and her failure to respond
was not the result of excusable neglect, nor timely. 
While section 473.5 has a two-year time
frame to file a motion, it does not apply when a party has actual notice.
Additionally, Cross-Defendants
Hacienda, Bolero, and Balegeer assert that the Court lacks subject matter
jurisdiction over this action. To support this argument, they attach Possession
Agreements executed on November 17, 2011 which include ‘Venue and Governing
Law’ provisions stating that any disputes or controversies arising from the
Possession Agreement shall be resolved by the Courts in Mexicali, Baja
California. (Mot., Exs. C and D, ¶ 7.9.) 
However, upon review of the
Complaint and Cross-Complaint, the breach of contract claims in this action
arise from a December 28, 2012 Amended and Restated Assignment of Rights
Agreement, Promissory Note, and Guaranty Agreement, all of which state they
shall be governed by the laws of California. (Compl., Exs. A, Assignment of
Rights Agreement, ¶ 7(d); Ex. B, Promissory Note, p. 3; Ex. C, Guaranty, p. 3.]

Accordingly, Cross-Defendants
Hacienda, Bolero, and Balegeer have failed to establish good cause for setting
aside the default judgments. 
III. Conclusion
The Motion to Quash Service and/or
Dismiss the Cross-Complaint of Cross-Defendants Laura Balegeer, Hacienda San
Lorenzo S. De R.L. C.V., and Bolero S.DE R.L. DE C.V is DENIED.