 Case Number:  23STCV17826    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ASHLEY STOTTLEMEYER; KATRENIA STOTTLEMEYER, by and through her
  guardian ad litem ASHLEY STOTTLEMEYER ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
BLUE CROSS OF CALIFORNIA dba ANTHEM BLUE CROSS; ANTHEM BLUE CROSS
  LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANY; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV17826
 Hearing Date:   November
  5, 2024
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Petition to Approve
  Compromise of Claim by Plaintiff Katrenia Stottlemeyer
Joint Motion to
  File Plaintiff’s Petition For Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action for
  Minor Under Seal [RES ID # 1795]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs
Ashley Stottlemeyer and Katrenia Stottlemeyer (Katrenia), by and through
her guardian ad litem Ashley Stottlemeyer, sue Defendants Blue Cross of
California dba Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health
Insurance Company (collectively Anthem Blue Cross) pursuant to a November 27,
2023, First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Negligence and (2)
Promissory Fraud. 
The claims arise from the following
allegations, contained in the first paragraph of the FAC. Katrenia was being
treated for a serious health condition. Anthem Blue Cross provided coverage for
a period, but then refused to provide further coverage on the grounds that the
treatment was not medically necessary. The Plaintiffs contend that the
treatment was medically necessary and that Anthem Blue Cross wrongfully denied
the treatment.
B. Motion Before the Court
On October 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a petition for approval of a minor’s compromise for settlement of this action
as it relates to Plaintiff Katrenia Stottlemeyer, a minor whose guardian ad
litem is her parent, Ashley Stottlemeyer. 
Also on October 22, 2204,
Plaintiffs and Defendants filed a joint motion for an order to seal certain
private and confidential information that appears on the minor’s petition for
approval of compromise. 
The petition is unopposed and now
before the Court. 
 
II. Petition for Approval of Minor’s Compromise
A. Legal Standard
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 372, any compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of
judgment made for a minor or adult with a disability must be approved by the
Court. (See also Prob. Code § 3600, subd. (b) [a compromise or covenant for a
disputed claim or damages, money, or other property of a minor or person who
lacks legal capacity is valid only after it has been approved by the superior
court].) A petition for court approval of a compromise of a minor or disabled
adult’s compromise or judgment of a pending action or proceeding to which this
person is a party must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a full
disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of
the compromise, covenant, settlement, or disposition. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 7.950; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rules 7.950.5-7.955.) The petition is
generally submitted on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim
or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a
Disability (Judicial Council form MC-350). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)
If the Court is satisfied that the compromise, covenant, settlement, or
disposition is in the best interest of the person, then the Court should
approve the same. (See Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1338.)  
B. Analysis 
1. Procedural Requirements 
A review of the petition shows that it meets all the
requirements in California Rules of Court, rules 7.950 to 7.955. 
a. Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950 
The petition satisfies California Rules of Court, rule
7.950. 
The petition was filed on verified Civil Form MC-350
seeking confirmation of judgment against Defendants on behalf of Katrenia
Stottlemeyer. (Petition, p. 10 [Petitioner
verification].) The petition also contains a full disclosure of all information
that bears upon the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or
disposition. The petition indicates the total settlement amount (Petition, p.
3, §§ 10.a., 11.b.(1).), the gross proceeds allocated to Katrenia (Petition, p. 3, §§ 10.a.), and the net proceeds allocated
to Katrenia (Petition, p. 6, § 15., 16.f.) 
b. Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.951 
The petition satisfies California Rules of Court, rule
7.951. 
This requirement provides that where a petitioner has been
represented or assisted by an attorney in preparing the petition to compromise
the claim or in any other respect with regard to the claim, the petition must
disclose specific information, which the petition contains as follows: 
(1) The name, state bar number, law firm, if any, and
business address of the attorney. (Petition, p. 7, § 17.b.(1)-(3) [Howard
Loring Rose, SBN No. 251727, Gianelli &
Morris, ALC, 12121 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite
505, Los Angeles, California 90025].) 
(2) Whether the attorney has received any attorney’s fees
or other compensation for services provided in connection with the claim giving
rise to the petition or with the preparation of the petition, and, if so, the
amounts and the identity of the person who paid the fees or other compensation.
(Petition, p. 7, § 17.c. [has not been compensated].) 
(3) Whether the attorney became involved with the petition,
directly or indirectly, at the instance of any party against whom the claim is
asserted or of any party’s insurance carrier. (Petition, p. 7, § 17.d. [did not
so become involved].) 
(4) Whether the attorney
represents or is employed by any other party or any insurance carrier involved
in the matter. (Petition, p. 7, § 17.e, Gianelli Decl. Ex. 1) [answered “is”
representing another party or carrier].) While here, Plaintiff did not attach
Attachment 17e, she did include the Retainer Agreement which contains that
information as Ex. 1 to counsel’s declaration.
 
 
(5) If the attorney has not received any attorney’s fees or
other compensation for services provided in connection with the claim giving
rise to the petition or with the preparation of the petition, whether the
attorney expects to receive any fees or other compensation for these services,
and, if so, the amounts and the identity of the person who is expected to pay
the fees or other compensation. (Petition, p. 7, § 17.f, Attach. 17f [stating compensation
amount of 40% of Ashley Stottlemeyer’s gross
recovery].) 
(6)  The terms of any agreement between the petitioner
and the attorney. (Petition, p. 7 § 17.a.(2), Gianelli Decl. Ex. 1) [answered
“do” have an agreement for services]. While here, Plaintiff did not attach
Attachment 17e, she did include the Retainer Agreement which contains that
information as Ex. 1 to counsel’s declaration.
 
c. Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.952 
The petition satisfies California Rules of Court, rule
7.952. 
This is because Plaintiffs are excused from personally appearing at any hearing where
good cause dispenses with the need therefor.
 
d. Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.953 
The petition need not satisfy California Rules of Court,
rule 7.953. 
This rule provides that, where ordered by the Court, an
order for the deposit of funds of a minor or a person with disability with a
financial institution must be provided. 
Here, the petition includes the terms and conditions of two
annuities that the settlement allocation will be used to fund, and the articles
for The Katrenia Stottlemeyer Statutory Minor’s Trust. (See Petition, §§ 18.b.(3),
Attach. 18.b.(3), 18.b.(7), Attach. 18.b.(7).) 
e. Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.954 
The petition need not satisfy California Rules of Court,
rule 7.954. 
This rule provides the requirements for requesting the
withdrawal of funds already deposited in favor of a minor or person with a
disability pursuant to a prior compromise, which is not the case here. 
f. Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955 
The petition satisfies California Rules of Court, rule
7.955. 
This rule requires that the Court determine whether the
attorney’s fees charged of a minor or a person with a disability are
reasonable. 
Here, the fees to be charged from Katrenia are 25% of the gross
settlement amount to be paid to her. (compare Petition, § 16.a, with Petition,
§ 16.c.)
2. Substantive Requirements 
The Court finds that the judgment allocation is in the best
interests of Plaintiff Katrenia Stottlemeyer.
(See Pearson v. Superior Court, supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p.
1338.) 
Plaintiff Katrenia Stottlemeyer will receive a gross settlement of 80% of the total gross
settlement. (Petition, p. 3, §§ 10.a.) The remaining part of the judgment
collected will be distributed to Ashley Stottlemeyer (Petition, p. 3, §§ 11.b.),
where Ashley Stottlemeyer, Katrenia’s guardian ad litem, will receive the remaining 20% of the total gross
settlement and is best positioned to use the net proceeds to further the
economic welfare and wellbeing of Katrenia.
Thus,
the Petition to Approve Compromise of
Claim by Plaintiff Katrenia Stottlemeyer is
GRANTED because the Petition is in the best interest of Plaintiff/Petitioner Katrenia. 
 
III.
Motion to Seal
A.    Procedural Requirements
1. Motion to Seal – Moving Papers 
A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must
file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or
application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing
facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.551,
subd. (b)(1).) 
            Here, Plaintiffs and Defendants have
filed a joint motion to seal supported by points and authorities and a
declaration from Defendants counsel. (Mot. to Seal, pp. 1-5, Robles Decl.)
2. Motion to Seal – Service 
A copy of the motion or application must be served on all
parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the court orders otherwise, any
party that already possesses copies of the records to be placed under seal must
be served with a complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a
redacted version.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).) 
Here, Plaintiffs served the Petition on the Defendants on October
22, 2024. (See Pet. for App., Proof of Service.) 
3. Motion to Seal – Lodging 
Unless good cause exists, a record to be filed under seal
must be put in an envelope or other appropriate container labeled
‘CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL,’ have a cover sheet affixed thereto with an
appropriate caption page stating the envelope contains a motion to file a
record under seal and be lodged in the sealed envelope with the Court. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subds. (b)(4), (d)(2), (d)(4).) 
Here, Plaintiffs lodged an unredacted copy of the
Petition to Approve Compromise of Claim by Plaintiff Katrenia
Stottlemeyer on October 23, 2024, thus meeting the procedural
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivisions (b)(4),
(d)(2), and (d)(4). 
4. Motion
to Seal – Redacted and Unredacted Versions 
If necessary to prevent disclosure, any motion to seal and
any supporting documents must be filed in a public redacted version and lodged
in a complete, unredacted version conditionally under seal. The cover of the
redacted version must identify it as “Public-Redacts materials from
conditionally sealed record” while the cover of the unredacted version must
identify it as “May Not Be Examined Without Court Order-Contains material from
conditionally sealed record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(5).) 
Here, a redacted copy of the Petition appears in the public
record. 
B. Substantive Discussion 
1. Motion to Seal – Findings 
“The public has a First Amendment right of access to civil
litigation documents filed in court and used at trial or submitted as a basis
for adjudication.” (Savaglio v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 588, 596 (Savaglio), citing NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV),
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1208-1209, fn. 25.) 
Therefore, before a trial court orders a record sealed, it
must hold a hearing and make express findings set forth in California Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d): (1) there exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) a substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest. (Savaglio, supra, at p. 596;
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) A court’s order allowing documents
to be filed under seal must contain express factual findings establishing these
five factors. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)  
            The parties seek a Court order
sealing portions of the Petition, specifically seeking redactions of Katrenia’s
personal and medical information and the amount of the settlement. 
            First, the parties argue that there
is an overriding interest in keeping the financial terms of the settlement
confidential because the parties have agreed to a binding contractual agreement
to keep the terms of the settlement agreement confidential. (Mot. to Seal, p. 2,
Robles Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1, §§ (B)(14), (G).) Additionally, the parties argue that
there is an overriding interest in maintaining the confidentiality of Katrenia’s
personal and medical information. (Mot. pp. 2-3.)
            There is an overriding interest in
sealing the record as requested because the portions of the Petition that the
parties agreed to “a binding contractual agreement not to disclose.” (Huffy
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal. App. 4th 97, 106-107.) There is
also an overriding interest to seal information as to Katrenia’s age as to
overcome the right of public access to reference of such in the Petition
because a minors’ age is prohibited information in registers of actions
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.507, subdivision (c). Next, there
is an overriding interest in protecting Katrenia’s physical address from the
public record because this is highly sensitive private information that
overrides any purpose or reason the public could have in accessing the
information. Lastly, Katrenia has a right to informational privacy of her
medical information (Ruiz v. Podolsky (2010) 50 Cal.4th 838, 850-851.) 
            Second, the interests
implicated by the Katrenia’s date of birth, age, address, and medical
information support sealing the record. Court rules protect dates of birth
and ages and supports sealing this information.  Medical confidentiality
laws implicated here similarly support redacting the Katrenia’s medical
information because the laws exist to protect the information sought be sealed
(medical information).  Finally, Katrenia’s interest in protecting her
private information, her address, and the public’s lack of grounds for interest
in this information supports sealing the record as to these matters. 
            Third, there is a substantial risk
of prejudice to Anthem Blue Cross if the terms of the settlement agreement are
made public because it will compromise Anthem Blue Cross’s ability to negotiate
settlement agreements in the future. Additionally, there is a substantial risk
of prejudice to the confidentiality of Katrenia’s information if this
information is not sealed in the public record of her Petition to Approve
Compromise because once this information is added to the public record, the
Court would be unable to later retract the information from public access.  
Fourth,
the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored as it is only directed to portions of
the Petition and supporting papers that set out Katrenia’s personal
information, medical information, and/or state the settlement amount.  No
other information is redacted from the record.
Finally,
no less restrictive means of achieving the interest of not publishing confidential
settlement agreement terms, Katrenia’s date of birth, age, medical information and
address because the only way to protect this information from public scrutiny
is to redact this information from the public record of the Petition to Approve
Compromise. No additional information is redacted from the record. 
            The joint motion is thus GRANTED. 
 
IV. Conclusion 
The Petition to Approve Compromise of Claim by
Plaintiff Katrenia Stottlemeyer is GRANTED.
The Judicial Council form MC-351,
Order Approving Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability is ENTERED, pursuant to the
following:
Trustees are ordered to post a bond
of $1,745,000 to this department. 
Plaintiff shall submit general
trust orders that provide for set up of the trust, such as approval of the
trust instrument, approval of funding of the settlement proceeds into the
trust, appointment of trustees, bond, etc. 
Plaintiff shall file a Notice of
Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form PRO 044
in the Probate division of this court within 60 days.
Trustee’s first accounting is ordered
to be filed in the Probate case by November 5, 2025. 
The Court shall set an OSC for
January 6, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. to ensure the funding of the settlement, purchase
of annuities, submission of bond, and the filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open a
trust supervision action in probate.
The Joint Motion to File Plaintiff’s Petition for Approval of Compromise of
Claim or Action for Minor Under Seal is GRANTED. 