 Case Number:  24STCV12557    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  19 TENTATIVE RULING  After consideration of the briefing filed and oral  argument at the hearing, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED in  its entirety.  STATEMENT OF THE CASE  This is a breach of contract action. Plaintiffs Sean  B. Van Lingen (“Sean”), Robert J. Van Lingen (“Robert J.”), and Robert G. Van  Lingen (“Robert G.”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring suit against Defendant  Preferred Bank, Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging the following causes of action: 1.       Reformation  of Contract; 2.       Negligent  Misrepresentation; and 3.       Negligence.  The Complaint alleges that “Plaintiffs Sean and Robert G.  are shareholders of a business they operate known as Mighty Transport and  Storage (‘Mighty’)….” (Compl., ¶ 1.)  Plaintiffs allege that they contacted Defendant for the  purpose of obtaining a loan and, after discussing the proposed terms,  Plaintiffs and Defendant agreed that Defendant would loan to Plaintiffs  $3,030,000.00 at a variable interest rate, for the period of March 31, 2016 through  April 1, 2023, and thereafter executed a promissory note (the “Note”). (Compl.,  ¶ 6, Ex. 1 [the Note].)  Plaintiffs allege that, as evidenced by a written  February 9, 2015 “expression of interest for the proposed loan” attached to the  Complaint as Exhibit 2, a written “Seller’s Closing Statement” attached to the  Complaint as Exhibit 3, the fact that Mighty was a new corporation that would  not have qualified for the loan, and the fact that Defendant relied upon  Plaintiffs’ financial information and not Mighty’s financial information when  deciding to qualify, it was the intent of the parties that Plaintiffs, as individuals,  were the borrowers but that, due to a mistake, the Note erroneously indicated  that the borrower is Mighty instead of Plaintiffs as individuals. (Id.  at ¶¶ 7-9, Exs. 2-3.)  The Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff Robert G. Van  Lingen is not on the closing statement because he is not a shareholder in  Mighty.” (Id. at ¶ 9.)  The Complaint further alleges that Plaintiffs Sean and  Robert G., as shareholders of Mighty, arranged to make a personal loan to  Mighty for tax purposes, but discovered the mistake when Plaintiffs filed their  tax returns. (Id. at ¶ 10.)  Plaintiffs allege that, as evidenced by a letter dated  April 30, 2019 attached to the Complaint as Exhibit 4, Defendant originally ¿acknowledged the error and agreed to  correct it by issuing corrected loan documents, but then changed its mind and  refused to issue the modified loan documents to correct the mistake. (Id.  at ¶¶ 12, 14.)  Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint.  GROUNDS FOR DEMURRER  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivision (e), Defendant demurs to each cause of action on the ground that  they fail to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  Additionally, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  430.10, subdivision (d), Defendant demurs to the First Cause of Action on the  ground that there is a defect of parties.  MEET/CONFER  The Court finds that Defendant satisfied the meet and  confer requirements. (See Hal D. Goldflam Decl., ¶ 4.)  DISCUSSION  I.       DEMURRER  A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740,  747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally, with a  view to substantial justice between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 452; Stevens  v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) In a demurrer  proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via  proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.  App. 4th 968, 994.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts  properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider  matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v. California Department  of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007.) “The only issue involved  in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with  extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147  Cal.App.4th at 747.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege  facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might  eventually form part of the plaintiff's proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.  William S. Hart Union High School District (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)  A.    First Cause of Action: Reformation of  Contract  1.          Demurrers  for Sufficiency  Defendant demurs to the First Cause of Action on the  grounds that (1) Plaintiff cannot, as a matter of law, seek to reform the Note  to substitute Plaintiffs for Mighty as the Borrower; and (2) is time barred.  (Demurrer, pp. 11-12.)                       i.             Plaintiff May Seek to Reform the Note to Substitute Parties  The Court rejects Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff  cannot, as a matter of law, seek to reform the Note to substitute Plaintiffs  for Mighty as the Borrower. Defendant relies on Komorsky v. Farmers  Ins. Exchange (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 960 and Mabb v. Merriam (1900)  129 Cal. 663 for the assertion that Plaintiffs, by way of the First Cause of  Action, are seeking to create a “new contract” by way of substituting other  parties for those already appearing on the face of the writing, which Mabb  holds cannot be done as a matter of law. (Demurrer at p. 11.)  However, a more recent appellate decision disapproves of Mabb,  and this Court finds the newer authority persuasive here. The Court of  Appeal in Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2022) 74  Cal.App.5th 697, review denied (May 11, 2022), held that, pursuant to Civil  Code section 3399, which was not considered by the California Supreme Court in Mabb,  a party may seek reformation of a contract to substitute other parties for  those already appearing on the face of the writing.  In Panterra GP, Inc., the Court of Appeal held  that reformation can be used to substitute parties of a contract to reflect the  true intention of the parties pursuant to Civil Code section 3399, noting that Mabb  did not consider or rely upon Civil Code section 3399 for its holding. The  Court of Appeal in Panterra explained as follows:  [Defendant] Movie Grill also argues  that the reformation sought by [Plaintiff] Panterra GP is not permitted under a  Supreme Court case from 1900: Mabb v. Merriam, supra, 129 Cal.  663…. That decision prohibited a court of equity from making a “new contract” –  rather than merely reforming it – by substituting one party for another. On  this basis, Movie Grill argues that “[r]eformation cannot be used to substitute  parties to a contract.”   However, Civil Code section 3399  permits reformation of a contract upon application of any aggrieved party.  Under this statute, “[t]he right to reformation of an instrument is not  restricted to the original parties to the transaction [citation].” (Shupe v.  Nelson (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 693, 698…; Watson v. Collins (1962) 204  Cal.App.2d 27, 32….) Thus, “the proposition that a person cannot be made a  party to a written instrument by reformation is an overstatement.” (5 Witkin,  Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2020) Pleading, § 805.) “No ‘new contract’ is made when  the plaintiff, on a proper showing of ... mistake, asks to have the writing  conform to the original oral agreement” concerning the parties to the contract.  (Ibid.)   Nonetheless, Movie Grill insists that Mabb  serves to limit the scope of Civil Code section 3399, even though Mabb  did not even cite – much less discuss or analyze – the statute. Not so.  “Opinions are not authority for matters not considered. [Citation.]” ( Gonzales  v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1302, 1311, fn. 8….) Moreover, a  supreme court decision cannot stand against contrary dictates from a statute  the decision failed to address. (See Fluor Corp v. Superior Court (2015)  61 Cal.4th 1175, 1182…,; see also id. at pp. 1180–1182, 1221–1224….)  (Panterra GP, Inc., supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at  715.)  Thus, the Court rejects Defendant’s argument that  Plaintiff cannot, as a matter of law, seek to reform the Note to substitute  Plaintiffs for Mighty as the Borrower. The First Cause of Action seeks relief  pursuant to Civil Code section 3399 which, as discussed in Panterra GP, Inc.,  was not considered by the California Supreme Court in Mabb.  The Court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to the First  Cause of Action.                          ii.             Statute of Limitations  “‘[A] demurrer on the ground of  the bar of the statute of limitations does not lie where the complaint merely  shows that the action may have been barred. It must appear affirmatively that,  upon the facts stated, the right of action is necessarily barred.’” (Stueve  Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 313  (quoting Baright v. Willis (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 303, 311 (other  internal citations and quotations omitted).)  As an initial matter, the Court agrees with Defendant  that the limitations period is three years and accrues upon the discovery of  the mistake. In addressing whether the plaintiff’s cause of action for  reformation was time barred, the Court of Appeal in Welsher v. Glickman  (1969) 272 Cal.App.2d 134 explained that:  Code of Civil Procedure section 338,  subdivision 4 specifies a three-year limitation on “An action for relief on the  ground of fraud or mistake.” However, the right to reform does not necessarily  accrue at the time the fraud or mistake is committed, inasmuch as the section  further provides “The cause of action in such case is not to be deemed to have  accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting  the fraud or mistake.”  (Id. at 140 (quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 338  (1969)); accord, Code Civ. Proc., § 338(d) (2024) [“Within three years: … (d)  An action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake. The cause of action in  that case is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved  party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.”].)  The Court rejects Plaintiffs’ reliance on JPMorgan  Chase Bank, N.A. v. Ward (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 678. In Opposition,  Plaintiff relies on the portion of the Court of Appeal’s opinion stating that “Brown  [v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irr. Dist. (1920) 183 Cal. 186] makes clear that  when a plaintiff seeks to restore a lost instrument, ‘the defendant would not  be in the wrong’ until it had refused the plaintiff's demand for reissuance.” (JPMorgan  Chase Bank, N.A., supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 688 (quoting Brown,  supra, 183 Cal. at 188).)  However, Plaintiff is not seeking to restore a lost instrument rather it is seeking reformation of the Note to correct a mistake  and to reflect the true intent of the parties. Indeed, in JPMorgan Chase  Bank, N.A., the Court of Appeal held that the demurrer was properly  sustained on statute of limitations grounds because the gravamen of the  plaintiff’s claim was not to restore a lost deed under Civil Code 3415,  subdivision (a), but instead was to correct a mistake in the instrument to  reflect the true intent of the parties. (Id. at 689-690.)  Thus, the Court finds that the statute of limitations  period is three (3) years and begins to run upon the discovery of the mistake.  Here, the Court finds that it is apparent from the face  of the Complaint that Plaintiffs discovered the mistake no later than April 30,  2019. The Complaint alleges that “¿Plaintiffs were unaware that the Note identified Mighty as the borrower  until 2019, when their accountant, C.P.A. Stuart Levy (‘Levy’) reviewed the  loan documents while preparing Plaintiffs’ tax returns.” (Compl. at ¶ 10.) It  is apparent from the face of the Complaint that Defendant, pursuant to a letter  dated April 30, 2019, “acknowledged the error and agreed to correct it by  issuing corrected loan documents.” (Id. at ¶ 12.)  Nonetheless, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs that it  does not appear from the face of the Complaint that the First Cause of Action  is necessarily time barred.  First, the Court finds, as suggested by Plaintiff,  (Opposition at p. 3), that it does not affirmatively appear from the face of  the Complaint that that there was no equitable tolling or that Defendant cannot  be equitably estopped from relying on a statute of limitations defense.  As explained by the Court of Appeal in Muraoka v.  Budget Rent-A-Car, Inc. (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 107:  Where a complaint shows upon its face  that the statute of limitations has run, the plaintiff may anticipate the  defense of limitation of action and allege facts to establish an estoppel.   A defendant cannot escape the  consequences of [its] acts or conduct affirmatively engaged in to procure delay  for purposes of settlement, or investigation or otherwise, upon which the  [plaintiff] has relied and by which he has been induced to delay the filing of  a claim until after the expiration of the statutory period. Such conduct, so  relied upon, becomes the basis of an estoppel against the party responsible for  the delay ... Actual fraud in the technical sense, bad faith, or an intent to  mislead, are not essential to create such an estoppel.   But [b]efore an estoppel to assert an  applicable statute of limitations may be said to exist, certain conditions must  be present: [T]he party to be estopped must be apprised of the facts; the other  party must be ignorant of the true state of facts, the party to be estopped  must have intended that its conduct be acted upon, or so act that the other  party had a right to believe that it was so intended; and the other party must  rely on the conduct to its prejudice.   (Id. at 115-116 (internal citations and quotations  omitted); see, e.g. Vu v. Prudential Property & Casualty Ins. Co.  (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1142, 1149 (citing Neff v. New York Life Ins. Co.  (1947) 30 Cal.2d 165, 169; Pashley v. Pacific Elec. Co. (1944) 25 Cal.2d  226, 229-232; Kimball v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1934) 220 Cal.  203, 210) [“…under some circumstances a misrepresentation or concealment by a  defendant might bar it from raising the defense of the statute of  limitations.”].)  The Complaint alleges that, from April 19, 2019 until  2023, Defendant represented to Plaintiffs that it would correct the alleged  mistake/error, (Compl. at ¶¶ 12, 14.) Given these allegations, the Court finds  that it does not affirmatively appear from the face of the Complaint that the  First Cause of Action is necessarily time barred because the Court finds that  there are sufficient facts to demonstrate that the limitations period may have  been equitably tolled beginning April 19, 2019 until sometime in 2023. (See also  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 688 (citing Union  Carbide Corp. v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 15, 25; Spray, Gould  & Bowers v. Associated Internat. Ins. Co. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th  1260, 1266, fn. 4) [“Where a complaint does not reveal on its face that it is  barred by the statute of limitations, a plaintiff has no obligation to plead  around the defense.”]; Choi v. Sagemark Consulting (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th  308, 323 (quoting San Francisco Unified School Dist. v. W.R. Grace & Co.  (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1325) [“‘The resolution of a statute of limitations  defense is typically a factual question for the trier of fact.’”]; Norgart  v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 396 [statute of limitations is an  affirmative defense].)  Thus, the Court finds that, while the First Cause of  Action may be time barred, it does not appear affirmatively, upon the facts  stated, that the right of action is necessarily time barred.  2.      Defect of Party For Failure to Name  Mighty  Defendant also demurs to the First Cause of Action  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (d) on the  ground that Mighty is an indispensable party. (Demurrer at pp. 12-13.)  Code of Civil Procedure section  389, subdivision (a) provides, in part, that:  A  person who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive  the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined  as a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be  accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to  the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action  in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to  protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject  to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent  obligations by reason of his claimed interest.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 389(a).) “If  he has not been so joined, the court shall order that he be made a party.” (Id.)  Code of Civil Procedure section  389, subdivision (b) provides that:  If  a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) cannot be made  a party, the court shall determine whether in equity and good conscience the  action should proceed among the parties before it, or should be dismissed  without prejudice, the absent person being thus regarded as indispensable. The  factors to be considered by the court include: (1) to what extent a judgment  rendered in the person’s absence might be prejudicial to him or those already  parties; (2) the extent to which, by protective provisions in the judgment, by  the shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or  avoided; (3) whether a judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be  adequate; (4) whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an adequate  remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 389(b).)  Here, the Court does not find  that it is apparent from the face of the Complaint that Mighty is an  indispensable party. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs Sean and Robert J.  are Mighty’s shareholders, (Compl. at ¶¶ 1, 9-10), and the Note is signed by  Plaintiffs Sean and Robert J. on behalf of Mighty. (Id. at Ex. 1.) Given  the allegations that Mighty was never intended to be a party to the Note, the  Court rejects Defendant’s argument. Defendant does not provide any legal  authority, beyond the text of Code of Civil Procedure section 389, to conclude  that Mighty must be named under the circumstances. The Court notes that, in its  Reply, does not respond to Plaintiff’s arguments.  Thus, the Court OVERRULES  Defendant’s demurrer for defect of parties.  B.     Demurrers for Sufficiency: Second and  Third Causes of Action  Defendant demurs to the Second  and Third Causes of Action on the grounds that (1) they are time-barred; (2)  Defendant had no duty to Plaintiffs and Plaintiff’s damages are barred by the  economic loss doctrine; and (3) no negligent misrepresentation is alleged and  Plaintiff’s damages are barred by the economic loss doctrine. (Demurrer at pp.  13-17.)  “To state a cause of action for  negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty  of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately  caused the plaintiff's damages or injuries.” (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans  Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62 (citing Thomas v. Stenberg  (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662).) “Whether a duty of care exists is a question  of law to be determined on a case-by-case basis.” (Id. (citing Parsons  v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 472).)  “The elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) a  misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) made without  reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) made with the intent to  induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance  on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank  National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 196 (citing Wells Fargo  Bank, N.A. v. FSI, Financial Solutions, Inc. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1559,  1573; National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated  Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35, 50).) 1         ThTime-Barred  1.         Time-Barred  The Court does not find that it  affirmatively appears upon the face of the Complaint that the Second and Third  Causes of Action are necessarily time barred.  As explained by the Court of  Appeal in Choi v. Sagemark Consulting (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 308, relied  on by Defendant:  If the last element  to occur in a tort action is damages, the statute of limitations begins to run  on the occurrence of appreciable and actual harm, however uncertain in amount,  that consists of more than nominal damages. It is the fact of damage rather than  the amount [that] is the relevant consideration in determining the existence of  actual harm.    But a cause of  action does not accrue, and the limitations period does not begin to run, until  the plaintiff discovers or should have discovered the cause of action. Under  the discovery rule, suspicion of one or more of the elements of a cause of  action, coupled with knowledge of any remaining elements, will generally  trigger the statute of limitations period. In ascertaining suspicion or  knowledge of the elements of a cause of action, courts do not take a  hypertechnical approach .... Rather than examining whether the plaintiffs  suspect facts supporting each specific legal element of a particular cause of  action, we look to whether the plaintiffs have reason to at least suspect that  a type of wrongdoing has injured them.   The resolution of a  statute of limitations defense is typically a factual question for the trier of  fact.   (Id. at 323 (internal  citations and quotations omitted).)  The Court agrees with Plaintiff  that it does not affirmatively appear from the face of the Complaint that the  limitations period necessarily began to accrue on April 1, 2021 because the  Complaint sufficiently alleges facts indicating that the actual harm did not  occur until 2023 when Defendant changed their mind with respect to correcting  the Note. (Compl. at ¶ 14.)  The Court finds Defendant’s  reliance on International Engine Parts, Inc. v. Feddersen & Co.  (1995) 9 Cal.4th 606 misplaced because neither the Second nor Third Causes of  Action are claims for professional malpractice asserted against accountants for  negligent preparation of tax returns.  2.      Failure  to Allege Duty/Economic Loss Doctrine  The Court also rejects  Defendant’s arguments that it is apparent from the face of the Complaint that  Defendant did not owe any legal duty to Plaintiffs. While Defendant argues that  a bank does not owe any legal duty to non-customers, (Demurrer at pp. 14-15),  the Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs were customers of Defendant. The Complaint  alleges that Plaintiffs and Defendants engaged in negotiations for a loan and  reached an agreement, but that the agreement failed to reflect the true intent  of the parties because it stated that the borrowers were Mighty rather than  Plaintiffs. (Compl. at ¶¶ 6-9.)  Thus, the Court does not find  that the Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs are “third-parties” and therefore  rejects Defendant’s arguments that the Second and Third Causes of Action are  barred by the economic loss doctrine.  Defendant’s reliance on Nymark  v. Heart Fed. Savings & Loan Assn. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1089 and Perlas  v. GMAC Mortgage, LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 429 is misplaced because Nymark  involved whether a lender owed a duty to the borrower in preparing an appraisal  of the security of the loan, which exceeded the scope of its conventional role  as a mere lender of money, and Perlas involved whether a lender owed a  duty to determine the borrower’s ability to repay the loan, which are not the  duties being alleged in the Complaint. Rather, the duty alleged concerns  Defendant’s duty with respect to the preparation of the loan documents, which  are within the scope of its conventional role as a lender of money.  3.          Failure to Allege Negligent  Misrepresentation/Economic Loss Doctrine  The Court rejects Defendant’s  arguments that the Second and Third Causes of Action are defective as a matter  of law because they fail to allege a negligent misrepresentation. The Complaint  alleges that Defendant “made the false representation to Plaintiffs that the  Note and loan documents would identify Plaintiffs, individually, as the  borrowers….” (Compl. at ¶ 21.) The Court does not find that ¿Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.  Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153 compels the conclusion that the  Second and/or Third Causes of Action fail as a matter of law. As Defendant  concedes, the facts of that case are distinguishable.  Finally, the Court rejects  Defendant’s argument that the Second and Third Causes of Action are barred by  the economic loss doctrine on the basis that Plaintiffs’ remedy is for breach  of contract. Defendant does not cite to any case authority but instead merely  cites to the Restatement (Third) of Torts. In any event, the Court finds that  the Second and Third Causes of Action are premised upon alleged harms that are independent  of a mere broken contractual promise. Given the allegations of fraudulent  misrepresentations concerning the identity of the borrower in the loan  documents and allegations of making and preparing the Note and loan documents  that incorrectly identified the borrower, the Court finds that the Complaint  alleges a breach of duty independent of the contract.  The Court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to  the Second and Third Causes of Action.  CONCLUSION  For all the reasons stated, the Court  OVERRULES Defendant’s Demurrer in its entirety.  The Court orders Defendant to file an Answer within 30 days.  The parties  waived notice at the hearing.           