  Case Number:  24STCP01253    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




DANIELLE PALIVOS, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
STATE FARM INSURANCE CO, et al.
                        Respondents. 


Case No.:


24STCP01253




Hearing Date:


July 9, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PETITION TO
  COMPEL ARBITRATION AND APPOINTMENT OF AN NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR
 




 
Background 
On April 18, 2024, Petitioner Danielle Palivos (“Petitioner”) filed a
“Petition to Compel Arbitration and for Appointment of a Neutral Arbitrator”
against Respondent State Farm Insurance Co. in this action. 
Petitioner now seeks an “order compelling arbitration and for appointment
of a neutral [sic]…” The petition is unopposed. 
Discussion
In support of the petition, Petitioner cites to Insurance Code section 11580.2. 
The Court notes that “Insurance Code section 11580.2 requires insurers to provide coverage for bodily injury or
wrongful death caused by uninsured motorists. Subdivision (f) of this statute
provides that if the insurer and the insured cannot agree whether the insured
is legally entitled to recover damages from an uninsured motorist and the
amount of such damages, those issues shall be determined by arbitration.” (Bouton v. USAA
Casualty Ins. Co. (2008) 43
Cal.4th 1190, 1193.)
Petitioner cites to Insurance
Code section 11580.2, subdivision (f),
which provides in part as follows: 
 
“The policy or an endorsement added thereto shall provide that the
determination as to whether the insured shall be legally entitled to recover
damages, and if so entitled, the amount thereof, shall be made by agreement
between the insured and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by
arbitration. The arbitration shall be
conducted by a single neutral arbitrator. An award or a judgment confirming an
award shall not be conclusive on any party in any action or proceeding between
(i) the insured, his or her insurer, his or her legal representative, or his or
her heirs and (ii) the uninsured motorist to recover damages arising out of the
accident upon which the award is based. If the insured has or may have rights
to benefits, other than nonoccupational disability benefits, under any workers’
compensation law, the arbitrator shall not proceed with the arbitration until
the insured’s physical condition is stationary and ratable. In those cases in
which the insured claims a permanent disability, the claims shall, unless good
cause be shown, be adjudicated by award or settled by compromise and release
before the arbitration may proceed. Any demand or petition for arbitration
shall contain a declaration, under penalty of perjury, stating whether (i) the
insured has a workers’ compensation claim; (ii) the claim has proceeded to
findings and award or settlement on all issues reasonably contemplated to be
determined in that claim; and (iii) if not, what reasons amounting to good
cause are grounds for the arbitration to proceed immediately. The arbitration
shall be deemed to be a proceeding and the hearing before the arbitrator shall
be deemed to be the trial of an issue therein for purposes of issuance of a
subpoena by an attorney of a party to the arbitration under Section 1985 of the Code of Civil Procedure…” (Emphasis added.) 
In the instant petition, Petitioner asserts that “[t]he underinsured
motorist endorsement in respondent’s policy states that Petitioner is required
to File [sic] Petition to Compel Appointment of an Arbitrator and to Compel
Arbitration in accordance with CCP 51280 et. seq.”
(Petition at p. 6:22-26.) However, Petitioner does not appear to provide any
evidence in support of this assertion. Petitioner does not provide evidence of
Petitioner’s policy, or any arbitration provision in any such policy. (See
Weinstein Declaration.) 
In Bouton v. USAA Casualty Ins. Co., supra, 43
Cal.4th at page 1199, the California Supreme Court cited to Freeman v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, stating
that in that case, the Court “noted that Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 requires a court to examine an arbitration agreement to determine
whether there is a duty to arbitrate the controversy. (Freeman, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 480.) We concluded that section 11580.2, subdivision (f) requires the parties
to arbitrate the narrow issues of whether the insured is entitled to recover
damages from the uninsured or underinsured motorist, and if so, the amount of
those damages. (Freeman, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 480.) We acknowledged the strong
public policy favoring arbitration, but stated that there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate and which no statute has made arbitrable.” (Internal quotations
omitted.) 
In addition, Petitioner relies on Insurance Code section 11580.2, subdivision (f), which,
as set forth above, provides in part that “[a]ny
demand or petition for arbitration shall contain a declaration, under penalty
of perjury, stating whether (i) the insured has a workers’ compensation claim;
(ii) the claim has proceeded to findings and award or settlement on all issues
reasonably contemplated to be determined in that claim; and (iii) if not, what
reasons amounting to good cause are grounds for the arbitration to proceed
immediately.” (Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (f).) It does not appear
that Petitioner has provided any of this information. 
Lastly, Petitioner requests that the Court “appoint a neutral
arbitrator.” (Petition at p. 7:2.) However, Petitioner does not appear to cite
any legal authority in support of such request. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Petitioner has
demonstrated good cause for the Court to compel arbitration and appoint a
neutral arbitrator. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s
petition is denied without prejudice.  
Petitioner is ordered to
provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  July 9, 2024                                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 