  Case Number:  21STCV28056    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




goldenwest lubricants, inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
functional products, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV28056




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   8, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel further
  responses to requests for production of documents and for monetary sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Functional Products,
Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Goldenwest Lubricants, Inc.
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents and for Monetary Sanctions
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Functional Products, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court for
an order (1) compelling plaintiff Goldenwest Lubricants, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) to
provide further responses, without objections, to Defendant’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Three, numbers 1-29, and (2) awarding monetary
sanctions in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff in the amount of $2,500. 
The court finds that Defendant has not submitted a meet and confer
declaration that complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 and
therefore denies Defendant’s motion. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  
“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  The meet and confer requirement “is designed
to encourage the parties to work out their differences informally so as to
avoid the necessity for a formal order . . . . 
[Citation.]  This, in turn, will
lessen the burden on the court and reduce the unnecessary expenditure of
resources by litigants through promotion of informal, extrajudicial resolution
of discovery disputes.”  (In re
Marriage of Moore (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 1275, 1293 [internal quotation
marks and citations omitted].) 
First, while the court acknowledges that counsel for Defendant sent a
letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on May 9, 2024 in an attempt to meet and confer,
the court finds that the content of the letter does not show that Defendant
made a reasonable attempt to informally resolve each issue presented in this
motion because, after setting forth the alleged deficiencies in Plaintiff’s
responses, Defendant’s letter (1) demanded that Plaintiff serve further
responses only one day later, and (2) did not request that Plaintiff provide
its position or that the parties engage in a discussion regarding its
responses.  (Deagon Decl., Ex. C, pp. 2,
3.)  
Second, the court disagrees that Plaintiff did not provide a
meaningful response to Defendant’s May 9, 2024 letter.  On May 10, 2024, counsel for Plaintiff
responded and, although asserting that the letter was deficient, “suggest[ed]
[that counsel] set up a conference call and a time to discuss [Defendant’s]
requests and [Plaintiff’s] answers.”  (Deagon
Decl., Ex. D, p. 1.)  Defendant did not
provide evidence showing that its counsel (1) attempted to call Plaintiff’s
counsel but was unsuccessful, or (2) engaged in a telephonic meet and confer
conference pursuant to Plaintiff’s counsel’s suggestion.  Moreover, Plaintiff has presented evidence
establishing that counsel never engaged in such a conversation.  (Bernard Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, 4 [“Kime Smith
[Plaintiff’s former counsel] advised that prior to Defendant’s motion to compel
being filed, he had attempted to set up a telephone conference with counsel for
defendant to discuss the alleged discovery deficiencies.  However, no such conference was ever
held”].)  Defendant does not dispute, in
its reply, that counsel did not engage in a telephonic meet and confer
conference with Plaintiff’s counsel. 
Third, the court notes that Defendant’s counsel has stated that, in
response to Plaintiff’s counsel’s email, Defendant’s counsel “submitted a
proposed stipulation and protective order to facilitate both party’s production
of documents[,]” which Plaintiff did not execute.  (Deagon Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)  However, Defendant did not submit evidence or
present adequate argument establishing that attempting to reach an agreement
regarding the execution of a protective order relating to the production of
documents shows that the parties engaged in a meet and confer process to
resolve each issue presented by this motion, including the alleged deficiencies
in Plaintiff’s written responses.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
Thus, for the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Defendant
has not shown that it made a reasonable attempt to informally resolve each
issue presented by this motion as required. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); In re Marriage
of Moore, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at p. 1293 [“‘the law requires that
counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and
deliberate’”].)
ORDER
            The court denies defendant
Functional Products, Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to requests for
production of documents. 
            The court orders plaintiff Goldenwest
Lubricants, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 8, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court