 Case Number:  24CHCV02154    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  10/4/24




Case
  Name: DrinkPAK LLC v. Paylocity Corp., and Does 1 through 10




Case No.
  24CHCV02154



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

OCTOBER 4, 2024
 

APPLICATION FOR HENRY LEAMAN TO
APPEAR AS COUNSEL PRO HAC VICE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV02154

 
Motion
filed: 9/11/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Paylocity Corp.
RESPONDING PARTY: None
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Defendant’s Application for Admission of Henry Leaman as counsel
Pro Hac Vice
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of contract and tort case between a canned
beverage manufacturer, Plaintiff DrinkPAK LLC (“Plaintiff” or “DrinkPAK”), and
a payroll services provider, Defendant Paylocity Corp. (“Defendant” or
“Paylocity”).
 
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against
Defendant and Does 1 through 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (3) Implied Indemnity, (4) Equitable Indemnity, (5) Contribution, and
(6) Declaratory Relief. Subsequently, Defendant filed a demurrer with motion to
strike to the Complaint on September 9, 2024.
 
On September 11, 2024, Defendant filed the instant
Application for Henry Leaman to be Admitted as Counsel Pro Hac Vice (the
“Application”).
 
No Opposition or Reply papers have been received. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Pursuant
to California Rules of Court Rule 9.40(a), “[a] person who is not a licensee of
the State Bar of California but who is an attorney in good standing of and
eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court or the highest
court in any state, territory, or insular possession of the United States, and
who has been retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of
this state, may in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an
active licensee of the State Bar of California is associated as attorney of
record.”
 
Additionally,
“No person is
eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
if the person is: (1) A resident of the State of California; (2) Regularly
employed in the State of California; or (3) Regularly engaged in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the State of California.” (Cal.
Rules of Court rule 9.40(a).)
A.   
Application
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
 
Henry Leaman (“Leaman”) applies to appear as counsel pro
hac vice for Defendant Paylocity. This Application is unopposed.
 
Leaman is a
member in good standing of the following: (1) Supreme Court of Illinois, (2)
U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois, (3) U.S. Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit, (4) U.S. Court of Appeal for the Fifth Circuit,
(5) U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and (6) U.S. District Court
for the District of Colorado. (Leaman Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) In addition, Leaman states
that he is not a resident of California, is not regularly engaged in practice
of law in the State of California, and is not regularly employed or does a
substantial amount of business in the State of California (Id. ¶ 4.)
Leaman attests that he has not previously applied for admission pro hac vice
into California courts. (Id. ¶ 7.)
 
Therefore,
Leaman satisfies the eligibility requirements of California Rules of Court rule
9.40(a).
 
Leaman’s
Application successfully addresses all six content requirements outlined in
California Rules of Court rule 9.40(d). He provides: (1) his residence and
office address (Leaman Decl. ¶¶ 2-3); (2) the courts to which he has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission (id. ¶ 5); (3) that he
is a member in good standing in those courts (id. ¶ 6); (4) that he is
not currently suspended or disbarred in any court or jurisdiction (ibid.);
(5) that he has not previously applied for admission pro hac vice into
California court (id. ¶ 7); (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
for Defendant (id. ¶ 8).
Furthermore, Leaman has satisfied the requirement of
California Rules of Court rule 9.40(c)(1) which states, “[a] person desiring
to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must
file with the court a verified application together with proof of service by
mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the
application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who
have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter
period.” (Casillas Decl. ¶ 3.) Additionally, Leaman declares that the $50.00
application fee, mandated by California Rules of Court rule 9.40(e), has
been remitted to the State Bar of California. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Application.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Paylocity Corp.’s Application for Admission of Henry Leaman as Counsel Pro
Hac Vice is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.