  Case Number:  20STCV12193    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers and notice of non-opposition, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On March
27, 2020, Plaintiff Sasoon Abramian (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Vincenti Family Trust, John C. Vincenti, Palma
J. Vincenti, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
December 20, 2021, Defendants Vincenti Family Trust and John C. Vincenti filed
an answer.  On February
17, 2022, Defendant Palma J. Vincenti filed an answer. 
On
September 30, 2024, Defendants Vincenti Family Trust, John C. Vincenti, and Palma
J. Vincenti (“Defendants”) filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s orthopedic
examination in California.  The motion
was set for hearing on December 3, 2024. 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
On November 27, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition
stating that (1) on November 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to
Defendants’ counsel agreeing that Plaintiff would attend the orthopedic
examination in California, but (2) Defendants still want the Court to rule on
their motion. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to compel Plaintiff to attend an orthopedic examination in California. 
DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice of
Exhibit A.  The Court denies Defendants’
request for judicial notice of Exhibits B and C. 
LEGAL STANDARD 

Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
“(b) If a
party stipulates as provided in subdivision (c), the court shall not order a
mental examination of a person for whose personal injuries a recovery is being
sought except on a showing of exceptional circumstances. 
“(c) A
stipulation by a party under this subdivision shall include both of the
following: 
“(1) A
stipulation that no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress over
and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed. 
“(2) A
stipulation that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional
distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages. 
“(d) An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. 
“(e) If the
place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person
to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved. 
“(2) The
order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable
expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320.) 

DISCUSSION 
On
or about May 29, 2024, Defendants served a demand for Plaintiff's physical examination by board-certified orthopedic surgeon Scott K. Forman, M.D., to take
place on August 22, 2024, at California Orthopaedic Specialists, 360 San Miguel
Drive, Suite 701, Newport Beach, CA 92660. 
(Sakai dec. ¶ 6; exh. C.) 
On
July 30, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defendants’ counsel that Defendants’
physical examination of Plaintiff had to be within 75 miles of Plaintiff’s
residence, which was in Iran.  (Sakai
dec. ¶ 8; exh. E.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel maintained this position during meet and
confer discussions between on or about August 1, 2024 and September 10, 2024.  (Sakai dec. ¶ 9.) 
On
September 30, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to compel Plaintiff to attend
an orthopedic examination in California. 
On
November 4, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to require Plaintiff to furnish a
security bond of $65,000.00 under Code of Civil Procedure section 1030 based on
his residence in Iran. 
On
November 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to Defendants’ counsel
agreeing that Plaintiff would attend an orthopedic examination in California on
January 14, 2025.  In the letter,
Plaintiff’s counsel stated that Plaintiff “has always resided in the State of
California” and “has never changed his residency to anywhere outside the State
of California.”   Plaintiff’s counsel also
demanded that Defendants withdraw their motion to require Plaintiff to furnish
a security bond. 
The
Court finds good cause and grants Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff to
attend an orthopedic examination in California. 
Although Plaintiff’s counsel has now agreed that Plaintiff will attend a
January 14, 2025 orthopedic examination with Dr. Foreman in Newport Beach, the
Court concludes the issue is not moot in light of Plaintiff’s shifting positions
on his place of residence.  (The Court makes no finding about Plaintiff's place of residence.)
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to compel Plaintiff Sasoon
Abramian’s orthopedic examination filed by Defendants Vincenti Family Trust, John C. Vincenti, and Palma J.
Vincenti. 
Board-certified
orthopedic surgeon Scott K. Forman, M.D. will conduct Plaintiff’s physical examination
at California Orthopaedic Specialists, 360 San Miguel Drive, Suite 701, Newport
Beach, CA 92660, on a date and time to which the parties agree, but no later
than 30 days after the Court's order.
 If the place of examination is more than 75 miles from Plaintiff’s residence, the Court (1) finds that there is good cause for the travel involved and (2) conditions the order granting Defendants’ motion on Defendants’ advancement of the reasonable expenses and costs to Plaintiff for travel to the place of examination.
The
examination will consist of an interview and an orthopedic examination.  During the interview, Dr. Forman will elicit
from Plaintiff a detailed account of the onset and course of his orthopedic
conditions.  Dr. Forman's examination
will be clinical in nature. The examination may be physical but may not be
invasive.  Defendants will pay Dr. Forman's examination
fees and all related costs of the examination. Plaintiff will be responsible
for any cancellation fees that arise from his conduct. 
          Moving parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          Moving parties are ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling within five days.