 Case Number:  24STCV08952    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV08952




MOTION


Motion to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Jesus Jose Acosta




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Taft Electric Company



 
MOTION
              Plaintiff
Jesus Jose Acosta (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Taft Electric Company (“Defendant”)
for employment discrimination.  Plaintiff
moves to quash subpoenas Defendant served on Deponent International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers (“Deponent”).  In
the subpoena, Defendant seeks all of Plaintiff’s records.  Plaintiff moves to quash the subpoena in its
entirety, or specifically as to two categories of records: “Any and all
documents evidencing or referring to Acosta being terminated from any job that
he had been referred to or dispatched to by the Union from June 1, 2014 through
the present,” and “All Termination Notices for Acosta from any employer from
June 1, 2014 through the present.”  (Declaration
of Edwin Pairavi, Exhibit 1.)  Defendant
opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
If a subpoena requires the production of
documents, the Court may quash the subpoena entirely or modify it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to quash, “the Court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff has a right of privacy in his
employment records.  (BRV, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 742, 756.)  For this reason, the Court cannot order
disclosure of the employment records, unless it determines such disclosure
serves a compelling interest.  (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)  Plaintiff alleges in the complaint Defendant
discriminated against Plaintiff because of his age.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 13.)   Defendant
stated in response to discovery it terminated Plaintiff’s employment because of
a reduction in force.  (Pairavi
Decl., Exhibit 5.)  Because Plaintiff
contends Defendant’s stated reason for his termination was pretextual, Plaintiff
has placed his work history at issue and discovery concerning it can be conducted
to obtain information that may lead to admissible evidence.  For example, Defendant is entitled to conduct
discovery on Plaintiff’s work history to determine if other employers
previously terminated Plaintiff, if so, for what reasons, and how Plaintiff
responded to those terminations.  Therefore,
the motion to quash is denied.
Defendant seeks sanctions in connection with
the opposition.  The Court declines to
find Plaintiff made this motion in bad faith or without substantial
justification.  The Court concludes Plaintiff
brought the motion based on his privacy rights. 
As such, sanctions are unwarranted. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff is to give notice of this
order and to file proof of service of same.
 