 Case Number:  23STCV21410    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
GEORGE J. GERRO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
GEMINI TRUST COMPANY,
  LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV21410
  Hearing Date:  March 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer to first amended complaint
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff
George J. Gerro filed this action against Defendant Gemini Trust Company, LLC.
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on November 9, 2023,
asserting claims for (1) recovery of personal property, (2) conversion, (3)
negligence, (4) receiving stolen property, (5) violation of corporate
securities law, and (6) unfair competition. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is
wrongfully retaining his bitcoin. 
            On January 9, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer to the FAC. Plaintiff filed his opposition on February 22,
2024. Defendant filed its reply on February 28, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Ferguson Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Collateral Estoppel 
a. Governing Legal Principles
“Issue preclusion prohibits the
relitigation of issues argued and decided in a previous case, even if the
second suit raises different causes of action.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824.) “[I]ssue preclusion applies (1) after final
adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily
decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the
first suit or one in privity with that party.” (Id. at p. 425.) 
Federal courts are courts of competent
jurisdiction whose decisions are given preclusive effect. (Kopp v. Fair Pol.
Practices Com. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 607, 620.) “[A] bankruptcy court's
allowance or disallowance of a claim is a final judgment and is binding and
conclusive on all parties or their privies, and being in the nature of a final
judgment, furnishes a basis for a plea of res judicata.” (Nathanson v.
Hecker (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1158, 1163, internal citations omitted.) “Collateral
estoppel may apply even where the issue was wrongly decided in the first
action. An erroneous judgment is as conclusive as a correct one.” (Roos v.
Red (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 870, 887.)
b. Plaintiff’s Prior Claims
Here, Plaintiff had previously filed two
lawsuits against BlockFi Lending, LLC, alleging that BlockFi took his bitcoin.
(Def.’s RJN, Ex. 2, 8.) A bankruptcy court held that BlockFi did not violate
California law or the contract by liquidating the bitcoin, based on the
following findings. (Def.’s RJN, Ex. 16.) Plaintiff had obtained loans from
BlockFi with his bitcoin as collateral. When the value of bitcoin dropped,
Plaintiff failed to post additional bitcoin as collateral to maintain the
proper loan-to-value ratio. Under the terms of the governing loan agreements,
BlockFi was entitled to liquidate the bitcoin to maintain the ratio. In denying
Plaintiff’s claim, the bankruptcy court concluded that BlockFi did not violate
California Financial Code section 22009. (Ibid.)
c. Plaintiff’s Present Claims
In the instant action, “Plaintiff alleges
that GEMINI knowingly undertook to receive and possess GERRO’s BITCOIN as
BLOCKFI’s agent, to secure BLOCKFI’s loan to GERRO,” thereby aiding BlockFi’s
violation of Section 22009. (FAC ¶¶ 11-12.) “Plaintiff alleges that BLOCKFI and
GEMINI, in its capacity as BLOCKFI’s agent, violated the California Financing
Law by using, possessing, and declaring a forfeiture of GERRO’s rights to
GERRO’s BITCOIN.” (Id., ¶ 13.) In other words, Plaintiff’s claim against
Gemini is based on the theory that Gemini assisted BlockFi’s improper
disposition of the bitcoin, or acted as BlockFi’s agent in taking the bitcoin. 
d. Application of Collateral Estoppel
But as the bankruptcy court found, BlockFi
did not improperly dispose of the bitcoin. Gemini could not have unlawfully
participated in or aided conduct that is lawful. Plaintiff has appealed the
bankruptcy court’s ruling, but unless the ruling is reversed, it has preclusive
effect. Plaintiff cannot file a separate action alleging that BlockFi acted
improperly through Gemini when the bankruptcy court has already found that
BlockFi did not act improperly. 
Targeting a different defendant (Gemini)
through this action does not resolve the defect. “[I]ssue preclusion can be
raised by one who was not a party or privy in the first suit.” (DKN Holdings
LLC, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 824.) “Only the party against whom the
doctrine is invoked must be bound by the prior proceeding.” (Id. at p.
825, emphasis in original.) Plaintiff is bound by the bankruptcy court’s ruling
even if he disagrees with it, and he cannot avoid the effect of collateral
estoppel by suing a different defendant for the same conduct involving the same
property.    
e. Public Policy Exception
“Even where minimum requirements for
collateral estoppel are established, the doctrine will not be applied ‘if
injustice would result or if the public interest requires that relitigation not
be foreclosed.’” (Roos, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at p. 886.) “Thus the
court must also consider whether the application of collateral estoppel in a
particular case will advance the public policies which underlie the doctrine.
The purposes of the doctrine are to promote judicial economy by minimizing
repetitive litigation, preventing inconsistent judgments which undermine the
integrity of the judicial system and to protect against vexatious litigation.”
(Ibid.) Collateral estoppel is fairly applied where it gives “credit to
factual findings made by a competent court, acting within the scope of its
jurisdiction, and in a forum where the parties were afforded a fair and full
opportunity to present their evidence and arguments and appellate review of
adverse rulings was available.” (Id. at p. 888.) 
Plaintiff argues that for public policy
reasons, collateral estoppel should not apply in this case because the
bankruptcy court’s erroneous interpretation of California’s Financial Code
would “deprive Gerro and many other California borrowers of the unwaivable
rights and fundamental public policy of the California Financing Law.” (Opp.
12:9-11.) However, Plaintiff does not specify what unwaivable right or
fundamental public policy is implicated or explain how it would be harmed. This
is a private dispute between Plaintiff and Gemini/BlockFi concerning the
disposition of Plaintiff’s property. Moreover, as discussed above, federal
courts are as competent as state courts to issue rulings that have preclusive
effect, and an erroneous ruling is just as conclusive as a correct one. The
purported public interest here is not of a “quality and intensity” that
justifies avoiding collateral estoppel. (See, e.g., Chern v. Bank of
America (1976) 15 Cal.3d 866, 873; Kopp, supra, 11 Cal.4th at p.
622.) Courts decline to apply collateral estoppel only “in exceptional
circumstances.” (Dailey v. City of San Diego (2013) 223 Cal.App.4th 237,
258.) 
The policies behind collateral estoppel
warrant its application here because Plaintiff had a full and fair opportunity
to demonstrate the illegality of BlockFi’s handling of his bitcoin and can
appeal the bankruptcy court’s findings. (See Roos, supra, 130
Cal.App.4th at p. 888.) It would be unjust and inefficient to allow Plaintiff
to relitigate the legality of the same conduct under the same law by simply
suing a different defendant, when that defendant (Gemini) is merely alleged to
have acted on behalf of BlockFi and engaged in no independent wrongful conduct.
Gemini cannot serve as a proxy for Plaintiff to attempt a “second bite at the
apple” to demonstrate that BlockFi illegally disposed of his bitcoin.   
Therefore, Plaintiff is collaterally
estopped from arguing that his bitcoin was improperly disposed of. This
necessarily bars the claims asserted against Gemini, which are based on the
allegation that Gemini aided BlockFi’s disposition of the bitcoin. Plaintiff
has not alleged any conduct by Gemini that is independent of BlockFi’s actions
which were deemed legal. Because collateral estoppel bars all of Plaintiff’s
claims, the Court does not reach Gemini’s remaining arguments on the merits of
each specific claim.    
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
 