 Case Number:  23AHCV01590    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EVELYN D. CHILDRESS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ZHENYU
   QI, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01590
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT STATE FARM GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY’S DEMURRER
   TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   1, 2023



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
July 12, 2023, plaintiff Evelyn D. Childress (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants Zhenyu Qi (“Qi”), State Farm General Insurance Company (“Defendant”)
(erroneously sued as “State Farm”), and Garden View Landscaping. On September
1, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which
removed Garden View Landscaping as a defendant and added The Villas on Third
Homeowners Association (“HOA”). 
Plaintiff alleges that on August
14, 2021, she was walking on the sidewalk in front of the residence at 1686
Third Street when “[her] right foot became tangled in [a] spider like plant
that pertruded [sic] onto the sidewalk.” (FAC, p. 2:8-9.) When Plaintiff tried
to move her foot, she fell. (FAC, p. 2:10.) 
          On
October 3, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer on the grounds that there was a
misjoinder of parties and that Plaintiff failed to allege facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
          On
October 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a late opposition brief. An opposition brief
was supposed to be filed no later than on October 19, 2023. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if there is a misjoinder of
parties or insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (d)-(e).)  
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
III.     DISCUSSION
          The Court
finds it necessary to briefly describe the FAC in order to rule on Defendant’s
demurrer to it. First, in a section titled “1. PRELIMINARY STATEMENT”,
Plaintiff describes the incident, her injuries and her subsequent treatment,
and her calculation of special and general damages. Then, in the next two sections,
which are titled “11. OBTAINING AN ATTORNEY” and “111. ATTORNEY LETTERS TO
STATE FARM INSURANCE”, Plaintiff describes the process of retaining “Frank
McNally Law Firm” (also referred to as “McNally Law Firm”) and includes
additional details about her medical care. Plaintiff also purportedly attaches
letters between her attorney and Defendant which were exchanged between August
31, 2021, and May 5, 2022. Next, Plaintiff describes her attorney’s withdrawal
and her interactions with individuals associated with Defendant, who told her
that they would not pay a liability claim. Below this, Plaintiff includes “V1 First
Class of Action.” The line directly below this text reads: “Against all
defendents [sic] for the violation of City of Duarte Code 13.04.100 in
paragraphs 1, 2, 3, are alleges [sic] as if fully set fourth [sic] herein.” 
Defendant argues that it should be
dismissed from this action because Plaintiff fails to state a claim. The Court
agrees. Plaintiff does not allege any facts that, if assumed true, would
provide a basis for Defendant’s liability. California law is clear that a party
allegedly damaged by a tortfeasor cannot bring a cause of action directly
against that tortfeasor’s liability insurance company until and after a final
judgment is entered against the tortfeasor. (See Rose v. Royal Ins. Co. (1991)
2 Cal.App.4th 709, 718 [injured party must bring two lawsuits to collect a
judgment from an insurer which issued a liability policy, first against the
insured and then against the insurer]; Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. (1988)
46 Cal.3d 287 [“[N]o enforceable claim accrues against the insurer until the
insured’s liability is in fact established.”]) Accordingly, the fact that
Defendant is the insurer enough to include Defendant in this lawsuit. 
In a late-filed opposition, which the
Court exercises its discretion to consider, Plaintiff argues that the demurrer
is defective “because there was no meet and confer as described in the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure (26)F.” (Opp., p. 2:1-2.)  The obligation to meet and confer in state
court is set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Plaintiff’s
description of her interactions with defense counsel, Agatha Akers, over the
telephone shows that the obligation was satisfied. Plaintiff states that Ms.
Akers “discussed legal rules and her theories.” 
(Opp., p. 2:4-5.)  A meet and
confer under section 430.41 does not include “discussion of discovery or
available options” or an attempt to “resolve the dispute.” (Opp., p. 2: 5-6.)  Furthermore, even if Ms. Akers’ telephone
conversation with Plaintiff were deficient, “[a] determination by the court
that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) 
Plaintiff then claims that Defendant previously
promised to compensate her for medical expenses and attaches exhibits which
purportedly reflect this promise. She refers to Exhibit #2 as the “promise
letter”, but this letter, dated February 8, 2022, does not include any promise to
pay any amount of money; it says that a decision has been made regarding
Plaintiff’s claim and that they did not believe that their insured would be
found legally responsible for her claimed injuries. Also, there are no
allegations in the FAC that that would support a claim for breach of contract.  
IV.     CONCLUSION
The FAC fails to state a claim against
Defendant and Plaintiff has not shown that there is a reasonable possibility
for amendment. Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 1st day of November
2023
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 