 Case Number:  23STCV08425    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Flora Zhang,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV08425




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Tesla, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 3, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Moving Party: Defendant Tesla, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Flora Zhang
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. THE ACTION IS STAYED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action arising out
of Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2022 Tesla Model 3 manufactured and distributed by
Defendant. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….”  (CCP § 1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration provisions in the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“MVOA”)
executed by Plaintiff on March 8, 2022 and the Retail Installment Sale Contract
(“RISC”) executed by Plaintiff and Defendant on June 15, 2022. 
 
The MVOA provides, “you agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of
the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury
but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the
American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.”
(Decl. Kim, Exh. 1.) The RISC provides, “[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise
..., between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your... purchase or condition of this vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.” (Id., Exh. 2.) 
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish to the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability
 
Plaintiff argues that the RISC controls
over the MVOA because the RISC was executed after the MVOA. Plaintiff contends
that the RISC is unconscionable. As the party asserting unconscionability,
Plaintiff has the burden of proving both procedural and substantive
unconscionability. (Crippen v. Central Valley RV Outlet. Inc. (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165).   
 
Plaintiff asserts the RISC is
procedurally unconscionable because it is one of adhesion and substantively
unconscionable because it obligates Defendant to only pay the first $5,000.00
in arbitration costs. This is insufficient to render the agreement
unenforceable. Procedural unconscionability is very low here. This is a
contract for the purchase of a vehicle, it is not an employment agreement or
some other agreement where the drafter has significant authority over the other
party. Plaintiff’s decision to purchase this vehicle was wholly voluntary.
Similarly, the cost provision is not substantively unconscionable as the cost
shifting provisions of Song-Beverly still apply.
 
Plaintiff has failed to show the
arbitration agreements are unenforceable. Defendant’s motion is GRANTED. The
action is STAYED.
