 Case Number:  19STCV31158    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Benthos Bioscience Corporation of America, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV31158




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Delia Rosalba Simental Crespo, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October
3, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Serve
Delia Rosalba Simental Crespo and Coco Chavita by Alternative Means
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
Benthos Bioscience Corporation of America, Danny Qiu, Key Inspiration Limited
and Advance View Group Limited
Responding
Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
 
CCP § 413.30 provides, “Where no provision is made in this chapter or
other law for the service of summons, the court in which the action is pending
may direct that summons be served in a manner which is reasonably calculated to
give actual notice to the party to be served and that proof of such service be
made as prescribed by the court.”
 
Plaintiffs move for an order allowing service of summons on Defendant
Delia Rosalba Simental Crespo and Coco Chavita via email to Fernando Ortiz.
Plaintiffs assert Crespo is a resident of Mexico and attempts to serve at
Crespo’s last known address in Sinaloa, Mexico have been unsuccessful.
Plaintiffs represent that their counsel sent the complaint to three possible
email addresses of Crespo in December 2022. Two of the emails bounced back and
one sent to a Hotmail address went through. Plaintiffs claim Crespo used that
Hotmail address as of at least November 2019. In April 2023, Plaintiff Qui
received an email from Fernando Ortiz, an attorney in Mexico purporting to be
Crespo’s counsel. The attorney did not respond to Plaintiff’s counsel’s request
to accept service on behalf of Crespo.
 
The Court previously denied Plaintiffs’ motion to serve Crespo via her
personal email address because Plaintiffs could not show the email was in use
after 2019. The Court similarly is unpersuaded that service on Ortiz will
result in actual notice to Defendants. Ortiz specifically stated he was not
authorized to accept service for Crespo. Plaintiff has not heard from Ortiz in months.
There is no evidence that an email to Ortiz will give Crespo or Chavita notice
of the complaint.
 
In addition, CCP § 583.210(a) provides, “[t]he summons and complaint
shall be served upon a defendant within three years after the action is
commenced against the defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an action
is commenced at the time the complaint is filed.” Plaintiff began this action more
than four years ago, on September 4, 2019. These Defendants were named in the
complaint filed that day. Plaintiffs do not explain why this section is
inapplicable here.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED.
 