 Case Number:  20STCV31735    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Cesar Ureña-Taswell, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV31735




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
OP LA, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October
3, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Approval of PAGA Settlement
Moving Party: Plaintiff Cesar Ureña-Taswell
Responding
Party: None
 
T/R:      THE MOTION IS DENIED.
 
                PLAINTIFF TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
 
Plaintiff moves for an order granting approval of the proposed
settlement of claims brought pursuant to the Private Attorneys general Act of
2004 (“PAGA”), Cal. Lab Code § 2698, et seq.  Pursuant to the proposed settlement,
Defendants have agreed to pay $73,750.00 total, $750.00 of which is allocated
for the representative PAGA claims and $73,000.00 for Plaintiff’s individual
claims. Attorney’s fees and costs are to be deducted from Plaintiff’s
individual settlement funds.
 
The settlement agreement provides a release of PAGA claims for all
aggrieved employees: “Upon the
Effective Date, Plaintiff, the State of California, and all Aggrieved
Employees, release the Released Parties from the Released Claims. This release
shall be effective for the period from August 20, 2019 to the date this
Agreement is executed. It is the intent of the Parties that the PAGA Settlement
Approval order entered by the Court shall have full res judicata effect and be
final and binding upon Aggrieved Employees regarding the Released Claims. The
Released Claims do not include any claims that cannot be released as a matter
of law.”
 
There are approximately seven similarly aggrieved employees who will
share $187.50 in exchange for a release of PAGA claims. This settlement is
unreasonably low considering the release of claims and Plaintiff’s large
individual settlement.
 
The motion is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 