  Case Number:  19STCV17195    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Nicolle DeSanto,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV17195




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Lynda Medof Levin, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October
3, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to
Bifurcate
Moving Party: Defendant Lynda
Medof Levin, et al.
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Nicole DeSanto
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
  
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 598 allows a party to seek an order
before trial ‘that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case,’ where ‘the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby ….’” (Estate of Young (2008)
160 Cal. App. 4th 62, 90.)
 
Defendants move for an order bifurcating trial to hear Defendants’
cross-complaint for specific performance of the settlement agreement before
Plaintiff’s claims. Defendants assert the bench trial on their cross-complaint
will likely take only one day. If the Court their favor, Defendants contend, it
will eliminate the need for a jury trial on Plaintiff’s claims. In opposition,
Plaintiff asserts bifurcation could take away Plaintiff’s right to a jury.
Plaintiff also argues that the cross-complaint lacks merit.
 
The Court finds bifurcation appropriate. Disposal of the issues in the
cross-complaint either will eliminate the need for a jury trial or will
streamline the jury trial. Equitable issues often are tried before legal issues.
(Nwosu
v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1238 [“[w]here plaintiff's claims
consist of a ‘mixed bag’ of equitable and legal claims, the equitable claims
are properly tried first by the court.”]) Bifurcation does not deprive Plaintiff of her
right to a jury. Plaintiff is not entitled to a jury trial on the cross-complaint;
a trial on the complaint would be by jury.
 
The Court will address whether the cross-complaint states a claim when Plaintiff’s
demurrer is heard.
 
Defendants’ motion is GRANTED.