 Case Number:  24VECV02353    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  T BROUMANDI V LAVIAN  24VECV02353 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Elias Broumandi’s Demurrer to  the First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED as to the first, second, and  third causes of action and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth  cause of action. ANSWER TO BE FILED WITHIN 10 DAYS. Cross-Defendant Elias Broumandi’s  Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Cross-Complaint is DENIED as to  punitive damages and GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to attorneys’ fees. Cross-Defendant Elias Broumandi’s  Two Requests for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to Exhibits 1, 2, and 3 but only  as to the existence of the documents and not as to any hearsay or facts in  dispute and DENIED as to Exhibit 4. Introduction  Cross-Defendant Elias Broumandi  (Cross-Defendant) demurred to Cross-Complainants Lina Lavian (Lina) and Nathan  Lavian’s (Nathan) (collectively, Cross-Complainants) First Amended  Cross-Complaint (FAXC).  The demurrer  placed into issue the all causes of action (COA) alleged by Cross-Complainant  Nathan, the first COA for breach of fiduciary duty, the second COA for  intentional misrepresentation, the third COA for fraud in the inducement, and  the fourth COA for rescission.   Cross-Defendant moved to strike the request for punitive damages and  attorneys’ fees. Procedure   Cross-Complainants argued that  the meet and confer efforts were insufficient.   The Court does not find the declaration attesting to the meet and confer  process to be insufficient.   Cross-Defendant Counsel’s declaration attached to the motions and reply  provided sufficient facts showing a telephonic meet and confer in compliance  with the statutory requirements.  Even if  the meet and confer was deficient, insufficiency in the meet and confer process  is not grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer or grant or deny a motion to  strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs.  430.41(a)(4) and 435.5(a)(4).)  The Court  cannot rule upon the demurrer or motion to strike based upon purported meet and  confer deficiencies.  The arguments based  upon a deficient meet and confer process is not persuasive. Cross-Defendant submitted two  requests for judicial notice that are identical.  Cross-Complainants did not object to judicial  notice of exhibits 1 and 2.  The  documents are proper matter for judicial notice and there being no objection,  the Court finds the requests as to exhibits 1 and 2 proper.   Cross-Complainants objected to  Cross-Defendant’s requests for judicial notice of the sales agreement (Exh. 3)  and Nathan’s contractor’s license (Exh. 4).   As for the sales agreement, Cross-Complainants objection is that  disputed facts within the contract cannot be judicially noticed.  The Court agrees.  Judicial notice is only granted as to the  existence of the sales agreement and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute. As for Nathan’s contractor  license, the Court does not find the license relevant to the pleading defects  presented in the demurrer.  Because the  license is irrelevant, the request for judicial notice of the license is  improper. The request for judicial notice  is GRANTED as to exhibits 1-3 and DENIED as to exhibit 4. Discussion  Cross-Defendant argued that  Nathan lacks standing/real party in interest status to allege any of the COAs  because Nathan did not allege facts showing that he is a party to any agreement  or facts alleging any ownership interest in the property at issue.  Cross-Complainants alleged that  Cross-Defendant and Lina owned the property, as tenants in common.  (FAXC par. 10.)  Further, Cross-Complainants alleged that  Nathan is married to Lina.  (FAXC par.  11.)  The allegations are insufficient to  plead the existence of a fiduciary relationship between Cross-Defendant and  Nathan because Nathan is not alleged to be on the title to the property and  Nathan’s marital status does not, in and of itself, create a fiduciary  relationship with Cross-Defendant.   However, Nathan alleged the  existence of a fiduciary relationship based upon an implied-in-fact partnership  agreement and expressly alleged facts to plead the conduct of the parties that  showed the existence of the partnership.   (FAXC pars. 12-13.)   Cross-Defendant argued that the allegations regarding a partnership is  not supported by any fact pleading alleging the formation, terms, scope, or  date of execution of the partnership.   However, Cross-Defendant’s contention ignores the express allegations  that:  (1) the partnership was formed at  or about the time of the purchase of the property by Cross-Defendant and Lina  (i.e., 1995) with a 75-25 split (FAXC par. 10); (2) the scope or terms of the  partnership related to the “management, preservation, improvement, investment,  valuation, prospective transfer, administrative affairs, and maintenance” of  the property (FAXC par. 11); and (3) Cross-Defendant was the managing partner  and Cross-Complainants were silent partners (FAXC par. 12).  The fact allegations are sufficient to plead  the existence of an implied-in-fact partnership between Cross-Complainants and  Cross-Defendant.  Because a partnership  is expressly alleged, there is sufficient fact pleading to allege a fiduciary relationship  and a fiduciary duty owed to Nathan, as a silent partner.  Cross-Defendant’s argument as to standing is  defeated, at minimum, because Nathan has standing to allege the breach of  fiduciary duty COA.   Specifically as to Nathan’s  standing on the fraud-based claims and the rescission COA, Cross-Defendant  again argued that Nathan failed to allege any title ownership in the  property.  Cross-Defendant argued that  because Nathan lacked any title ownership interest in the property, Nathan  could not have been induced to change his legal position.  However, this argument fails to account for  the partnership allegations.  Nathan’s  interest is not in title ownership of the property but his interest in the  partnership and the loss of the partnership asset and/or failure to obtain full  value of the partnership asset.  Based  upon the partnership allegations, there is sufficient fact pleading to allege  Nathan’s standing to plead the fraud-based claims and the rescission COA.  Cross-Defendant’s arguments as to Nathan’s  standing, or lack thereof, is unpersuasive.    As to the first COA for breach of  fiduciary duty alleged by both Cross-Complainants, Cross-Defendant argued that  there is no fiduciary duty owed when the co-tenancy is acquired at different  times.  Cross-Defendant asserted that  Cross-Defendant’s interest in the property was transferred to the E. and F.  Living Trust in 2006.  Preliminarily, the  FAXC contains no facts regarding any transfer of Cross-Defendant’s interest,  let alone any reference to the E. and F. Living Trust.  The argument is based upon facts outside the  four corners of the pleading and improper for demurrer.  Even if a transfer of the interest to the  trust can be referenced, trusts are not recognized as a separate legal entity  or person.  Trusts are only a collection  of property and assets.  (Greenspan v.  LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 522.)   Because a trust in not a separate legal entity/person, a transfer to a  trust is not seen as a separate conveyance.   In any event, Cross-Complainants sufficiently alleged an implied in fact  partnership to ground their claim for breach of fiduciary duty.  Cross-Defendant’s argument against the first  COA is unpersuasive. As to the fraud-based COAs,  Cross-Defendant asserted that Cross-Complainants failed to plead sufficient  facts.  Cross-Defendant argued that the  alleged misrepresentation is not a statement of fact but an opinion.  However, the representation alleged is not  merely that of the value of the property.   Cross-Complainants alleged that the value of the property was stated as  a fact based upon conditions of the property (i.e., soil issues; removal of  foundation; “cloud” on title by Los Angeles City (See FAXC par. 23.)  Cross-Complainants alleged that  Cross-Defendant had expert knowledge in real estate and stated that the value  of the property was low due to the conditions alleged.  Further, Cross-Complainants also alleged that  the alleged representation of a “cloud” on title by the City, a representation  of fact and not opinion, was false.   Cross-Defendant failed to address the “cloud” misrepresentation and thus  did not present argument to dispose of the entire COA.   Cross-Defendant argued that there  are insufficient facts alleged to plead reasonable reliance because  Cross-Complainants should have performed their own due diligence on the sales  transaction.  However, Cross-Defendant’s  argument is a defense based upon facts not alleged in the four corners of the  pleading.  The facts alleged in the FAXC  are sufficiently pled to allege reasonable reliance based upon  Cross-Defendant’s expertise; the parties familial relationship; and the  partnership relationship between the parties.   (FAXC pars. 28 and 33.)   Cross-Defendant’s argument as to lack of fact pleading for reasonable  reliance is unpersuasive. Cross-Defendant asserted that the  fraud-based claims failed to allege facts to support the  damages element.  However, Cross-Complainants alleged damages  by agreeing to convey the 25% ownership interest in the property for less than  full value.  (FAXC par. 28.)  The pleading element of damages is  sufficiently alleged. Cross-Defendant argued that the  fraud-based claims failed to allege specific facts as to when the  misrepresentations were made.  However,  the FAXC expressly alleged that the representations were made verbally and in October  2020 and on or about January 19, 2021 and March 2022 (FAXC pars. 12, 19-21, 23,  and 31.)  Cross-Defendant’s argument that  damages not be specifically pled is unpersuasive, as reviewed above. Cross-Defendant argued that the  fraud-based claims and the breach of fiduciary duty COA are time-barred under  the three year statute of limitations (SOL) and the two year SOL because the  SOL accrued on January 19, 2021, when the parties entered into the sales  agreement.  However, the argument is  based upon a presumption of facts not alleged in the FAXC.  Cross-Defendant’s alleged accrual date  assumes that Cross-Complainants discovered the fraud when the agreement was  entered.  The contention is not supported  by the allegations since Cross-Complainants accepted the $65,000.00 payment in  March 2022.  (FAXC par. 25.)  The allegations do not support  Cross-Defendant’s contention that Cross-Complainants either discovered or  should have discovered the fraud when the parties entered the agreement on  January 19, 2021.  Cross-Defendant  misconstrues the facts alleged in support of the fraud-based claims and breach  of fiduciary duty.  The SOL argument  against the fraud-based claims and the breach of fiduciary duty COA is  unpersuasive. Cross-Defendant asserted that the  two fraud-based claims are duplicative.   It is undisputed that the two COAs share common facts.  However, as admitted by Cross-Defendant,  fraud in the inducement is a subset of the tort of fraud.  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135  Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  A subset of fraud  is not the same legal theory as fraud.   Because the legal theories are not duplicative, the Court disagrees with  Cross-Defendant that the two COAs are duplicative.   The demurrer to the first,  second, and third COAs is OVERRULED. As to the fourth COA, the Court  agrees with Cross-Defendant that rescission is a remedy and not a cause of  action.   (Nakash v. Superior Court  (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 59, 70.)  As argued  by both parties, rescission is a remedy for fraud or breach of contract.  The FAXC sufficiently pled the fraud COAs and  thus the remedy for rescission is properly supported.   The demurrer to the fourth COA is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   Cross-Defendant moved to strike  the request for punitive damages and argued that the FAXC failed to allege  specific facts to plead malice, oppression or fraud.  As reviewed above, the fraud-based claims are  sufficiently pled with specific and particular facts.  Fraud is a proper basis to seek punitive  damages.  The fraud-based claims are  sufficient to plead a conscious disregard for Cross-Complainants rights.   The motion to strike the request  for punitive damages is DENIED. Cross-Defendant asserted that the  request for attorneys’ fees is not alleged to be based upon a contract or  statute.  Cross-Complainants argued  otherwise without any supportive facts.    Despite Cross-Complainants argued that fees are based upon a statute or  contract, Cross-Complainants did not cite to a statute or any contract  provision entitling Cross-Complainants to attorneys’ fees.  Cross-Complainants also argued the theory of  tort of another.  However, nothing in the  FAXC made any allegation against a third party and/or that the third party  brought an action against Cross-Complainants.   The argument of tort of another is unpersuasive, especially when the  theory is unsupported with any fact pleading. The motion to strike attorneys’  fees is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE.