 Case Number:  24VECV00528    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  T  
HANSON V VENTURA
24VECV00528
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:   Cross-Defendant Phuong Pham’s Motion to Set
Aside and Vacate Default Entered and for Leave to File an Answer is
GRANTED.  Cross-Defendant Phuong Pham is
ORDERED to file the Answer within 20 days. 
Cross-Defendant Phuong Pham, and not Counsel, is ORDERED to pay
Cross-Complainant Ventura Park Management, LLC $1,350.00 by payment to the
Client Trust Account of MEHDIAN LAW, APC 1901 Avenue of the Stars, 11th Floor
Los Angeles, California 90067 by 11/15/2024. 
Introduction 
Cross-Defendant Phuong Pham
(Cross-Defendant) moved to set aside the default on Cross-Complainant Ventura
Park Management, LLC’s (Cross-Complainant) Cross-Complaint.  Cross-Defendant’s default was entered on July
24, 2024.
Procedure 
Cross-Defendant’s Notion to the
Motion asserted that the motion is grounded upon Code of Civil Procedure,
section 473(d) [void judgment/order due to clerical mistakes].  However, Cross-Defendant’s Points and
Authorities failed to cite to the statute and failed to present any argument
applying the facts to law.  A judge in a
civil case is not “'obligated to seek out theories [a party] might have
advanced, or to articulate for him that which … [a party] has left
unspoken.'”  (Mesecher v. County of San
Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.) 
“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned
argument and citations to authority.” 
(Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210,
1215.)  Because Cross-Defendant is silent
as to the motion based upon Code of Civil Procedure, section 473(d),
Cross-Defendant failed to meet her initial burden on the motion.
The motion to vacate pursuant to
the Code of Civil Procedure, section 473(d) is DENIED.
Discussion 
Cross-Defendant argued that the
default should be set aside because Cross-Defendant’s  default was entered through Cross-Defendant’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 473(b) [discretionary
provision].)  The proof of service filed
on June 4, 2024 shows service was effectuated by a registered process server
through substituted service.  The proof
of service attached a declaration of diligence and proof of mailing.  Cross-Defendant did not raise any dispute as
to the San Francisco address used for attempted service and mailing.  Because service was by a registered process
server, there is a rebuttable presumption of proper service.  To overcome the rebuttable presumption,
Cross-Defendant submitted her own declaration stating that she was out of the
country for “most of May through July 2024” and did not receive a copy of the
Cross-Complaint in the mail.  (Pham Decl.
par. 3.)  However, Cross-Defendant’s
declaration failed to present any facts or corroborating evidence to support
her contention that she was out of the country. 
The claim is conclusory.  Further,
Cross-Defendant retained counsel on August 9, 2024, shortly after her return
into the country, but failed to present any facts to show how or when she
learned of the instant action.  (Pham
Decl. par. 4.)  Cross-Defendant further
attested that she received a copy of the Cross-Complaint through her counsel on
August 20, 2024, which is chronologically impossible to provide her notice of
the action between the time she returned and retaining counsel.  Because Cross-Defendant’s evidence is silent
as to how or when she learned of the action in order to retain counsel and
failed to present corroborating evidence supporting her conclusory claim that
she was out of the country, the Court does not find Cross-Defendant’s testimony
completely credible and does not find a strong showing of “mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect”.  
The conclusory testimony only presents a modicum of evidence to show
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
The Court noted that lack of
prejudice to the opposing party/Cross-Complainant is not specifically required
for discretionary relief. However, if granting relief will not prejudice the
opposing party/Cross-Complainant, other than losing the advantage of the
default, “the original negligence in allowing the default to be taken will be
excused on a weak showing.”  (Aldrich v.
San Fernando Valley Lumber Co., Inc. (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 725, 740.)  The only prejudice seen is
Cross-Complainant’s fees incurred in obtaining the default and opposing the
instant motion.  The prejudice can be
negated by imposing discretionary sanctions per Code of Civil Procedure,
section 473(c)(1), as requested by Cross-Complainant.  With negating the prejudice, the weak showing
of Cross-Defendant is sufficient to grant Cross-Defendant relief.
Cross-Defendant’s motion to
vacate the default pursuant Code of Civil Procedure, section 473(b), is GRANTED
and Cross-Defendant is ORDERED to file the Proposed Answer within 20 days.  
The Court finds good cause to
award Cross-Complainant’s fees and costs. 
Cross-Complainant requested $1,950.00 in fees for obtaining the default
and opposing the motion and requested a $1,000.00 penalty against Cross-Defendant,
and payable to Cross-Complainant.  Ben
Mehdian’s hourly rate of $650 is seen to be excessive because Mr. Mehdian
failed to present any facts to support the hourly rate.  (Ben Mehdian Decl. par. 5.)  The Court reduces the hourly rate to $450.00
based upon Mr. Mehdian’s California State Bar number.  The Court finds that three hours expended for
obtaining the default and opposing the instant motion to be reasonable.  The Court reduces the fees to $1,350.00.  
As to  Cross-Complainant’s request for a $1,000.00
penalty, the Court finds it excessive and unreasonable to award a penalty in
addition to the fees awarded.  The
request for the penalty is unpersuasive.
Cross-Complainant’s request for
fees is GRANTED but reduced to $1,350.00 and levied only against
Cross-Defendant Phuong Pham and not Cross-Defendant’s counsel.  The request for the $1,000.00 penalty is
DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.