  Case Number:  23VECV02503    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  T LEVI V KEYES 23VECV02503
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Liel Levi’s Demurrer to the
Verified First Amended Answer is OVERRULED as to the seventh and eleventh
affirmative defenses and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth,
fourteenth, twentieth, twenty-second, thirty-second, thirty-third,
thirty-fourth, and thirty-sixth affirmative defenses.  
Introduction 
Plaintiff Liel Levi (Plaintiff)
demurred to Defendant Van Nuys-H, Inc. dba Keyes Hyundai of Van Nuys’
(Defendant) Verified First Amended Answer (FAA).  Plaintiff’s demurrer placed into issue the
sixth affirmative defense (AD) for apportionment, specifically page 19, line 28
– page 20, line 8; the seventh AD for statute of limitations (SOL),
specifically page 20, lines 14-15; eleventh AD for disclaimer, specifically
page 21, lines 16-18; the fourteenth AD for release and settlement in its
entirety and specifically page 22, line 4; the twentieth AD for estoppel; the
twenty-second AD for waiver; the thirty-second AD for collateral estoppel; the
thirty-third AD for res judicata; the thirty-fourth AD for class action
settlement, specifically page 26, line 21; and the thirty-sixth AD for judicial
estoppel.
Discussion 
At the July 10, 2024, demurrer to
the March 13, 2024, Verified Answer, the Court sustained the demurrer and
provided Defendant with leave to allege facts to support the following
ADs:  the sixth AD for apportionment, the
fourteenth AD for release and settlement; the twentieth AD for estoppel; the
twenty-second AD for waiver; the thirty-second AD for collateral estoppel; the
thirty-third AD for res judicata; the thirty-fourth AD for class action
settlement; and the thirty-sixth AD for judicial estoppel.  These ADs are again placed into issue and
Plaintiff argued that the ADs again failed to plead supportive facts.  It is noted that Defendant added some
allegations but the allegations only amounted to legal conclusions or
theories.  Legal conclusions/theories are
not ultimate facts.  Despite Defendant’s
attempt to amend, the ADs are still deficiently pled and supportive fact
pleading is not alleged.
Defendant’s request for leave to
amend is short on any facts showing how the pleading defects can be cured.  Defendant had their opportunity to cure and
they failed.
The demurrer to the sixth,
fourteenth, twentieth, twenty-second, thirty-second, thirty-third,
thirty-fourth, and thirty-sixth ADs is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Plaintiff asserted that the
seventh AD for SOL, specifically page 20, lines 14-15 (any other applicable
SOL) is uncertain.  However, this
argument only addresses a portion of the AD. 
Defendant expressly identified a multitude of citations to SOLs making
the AD clear and unambiguous despite the claim that other SOLs may apply.  The demurrer to the specific phrase in the AD
is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the seventh AD is
OVERRULED.  
Plaintiff argued that the
eleventh AD for disclaimer, specifically page 21, lines 16-18 (how Plaintiff
disclaimed, renounced, cancelled, and excluded the warranties) is
uncertain.  The Court does not find that
the AD is uncertain.  The AD is clear and
unambiguous in alleging a disclaimer defense. 
The demurrer to the eleventh AD
is OVERRULED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 
The court notes that it is hard to hear the
music with all of the noise;  The brief
is replete with  "GRAVELY DEFICIENT,
SHOCKED, KITCHEN SINK, WRONG!NO FACTS! GRAVE MISHAP, LATTES, THIS IS NOT
APPROPRIATE! WHY?" (and many more). Perhaps Mr. Partiyelli enjoys saying
anything that comes into his head (with capital letters and exclamation points);
the court, however, is not amused.  The
court would like future briefs to "TONE IT DOWN!"  Thank you.  