On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff Melissa Loyd filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., and Oscar Mejia for (1) IIED, (2) FEHA harassment, (3) FEHA failure to prevent harassment, (4) FEHA retaliation, (5) wrongful termination, (6) failure to pay overtime wages, (7) violations of the UCL, and (8) fraud. Defendants now move for summary adjudication of the fourth and fifth causes of action.  The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)For FEHA retaliation claims, the plaintiff has the initial burden to establish a prima facie case by showing (1) he or she engaged in protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355.)  Once the employee establishes the prima facie case, the burden shifts to the employer, who must present a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  (Ibid.)  If the employer carries this burden, the court no longer presumes retaliation, and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation.  (Ibid.)With respect to motions for summary judgment, “ ‘the employer, as the moving party, has the initial burden to present admissible evidence showing either that one or more elements of plaintiff's prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse employment action was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.’ ” (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 861.)  “If the employer meets its initial burden, the burden shifts to the employee to ‘demonstrate a triable issue by producing substantial evidence that the employer's stated reasons were untrue or pretextual, or that the employer acted with a discriminatory animus, such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged in intentional discrimination or other unlawful action.’ ” (Ibid.)On a prior summary judgment motion, the Court ruled as follows: “Plaintiff contends that she was denied a promotion from assistant manager to coach and that her peers, with lower performance evaluations, instead received promotions.  This theory was not addressed by Defendants; therefore, Defendants have failed to carry their burden on this issue.  Defendants have only asserted meritless objections on this issue.  Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied as to the eighth cause of action. [¶] The Motion is also denied as to the wrongful termination claim, which is apparently based on a constructive discharge theory to the extent Plaintiff was not promoted and she resigned from a job that paid her significantly less than her original position”.  Defendants now argue that Plaintiff cannot show a retaliatory motive and that there was a legitimate reason for not giving Plaintiff a coach position.A legitimate reason for Plaintiff’s lack of promotion has been provided: “In August 2020, while Plaintiff was on a leave of absence, Walmart eliminated Plaintiff’s ASM position nationwide (over 10,000 positions). As part of the nationwide restructuring, Walmart created a limited number of ‘Coach’ positions in each store, which were open to eligible ASMs. Like all ASMs at the time, Plaintiff was rated by the Store Manager (not Mejia) and ranked by Walmart’s computer system, which was then reviewed by a management team in charge of the geographic ‘market’ in which the store was located. Plaintiff was ranked below several ASMs and, consequently, was not offered a Coach position. Nevertheless, Walmart encouraged Plaintiff to apply for other positions. Upon her return from leave, she accepted a new position at another Walmart store, worked four days, and resigned.”Plaintiff has failed to show pretext.  Plaintiff mainly points to harassment by Mejia and temporal proximity, but temporal proximity alone is insufficient (see Loggins v. Kaiser Permanente International (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1112), and Mejia did not make the decision as to whether Plaintiff should have been a coach.  Plaintiff also attempts to make her constructive discharge claim about harassment, but Plaintiff resigned at a different store when she was no longer subject to harassment.  Her resignation is tied to the lack of promotion, which she has not shown to be wrongful or retaliatory.  Plaintiff, in her declaration, attempts to show that she was more qualified for the coach position, but her declaration lacks foundation on this point and fails to show that a performance evaluation was the only basis for the selection of the coach position.  For these reasons, Plaintiff’s claims fail.  The Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted.  Defendants’ objections are sustained to the extent discussed herein.  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 