 Case Number:  23STCV24643    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
 2-15-24 c/f 1-19-24
Case
#: 23STCV24643
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Kelly Pelton, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Norma Salceda
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Fist Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Quasi Specific Performance/Constructive Trust
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Promissory Estoppel
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
In
October, 2001, Plaintiff Norma Salceda, commenced leasing 13672 Van Nuys Blvd.,
Pacoima, for operation of an OB/GYN medical practice on the premises. The
premises were owned by Nance Malmrose. Plaintiff and Malmrose were also
personal friends.
 
In
2010, Plaintiff offered to purchase the property from Malmrose. Two weeks
later, Malmrose rejected the purchase offer, and instead promised to bequeath
the property to Salceda at the time of death in to be reflected in an updated
will/estate plan. Following the promise, Plaintiff suggested conversion of the
property into a community healthcare center instead of continuing as an OB/GYN
clinic. Malmrose agreed. Plaintiff subsequently engaged in plans to convert the
premises, and began investing funds for the remodel plus working with
government agencies.
 
On
January 23, 2019, passed away intestate with no spouse or offspring. No will
was ever found, and Plaintiff accuses a private nurse to Malmrose, Ken Preston,
with absconding it. 
 
On
October 12, 2022, Ginger Brandenburg (Ginger), child of decedent’s “late
husband” Earl Malmrose (stepdaughter of Malmrose?) was awarded “100% of
Malmrose’s” estate valued at approximately “11 million dollars” (19STPB09601).
Ginger Brandenburg however passed away on September 24, 2022, two weeks before
the award. Ginger’s surviving husband, Joe Brandenburg, was designated trustee.
Joe subsequently resigned as trustee, thereby leading to the designation of
Kelly Brandenburg Pelton (Pelton) as successor trustee. A later probate
proceeding (23STPB00795) facilitated the transfer of all assets into the Brandenburg
family trust.
 
Plaintiff
alleges that prior to Ginger being awarded the estate, Plaintiff nevertheless
informed Ginger Brandenburg about the purported agreement to leave the
commercial premises for the community clinic. The wish of the property was
confirmed by a third party “financial advisor” affiliated with the Malmrose
estate. Ginger purportedly assured Plaintiff that the property would be
transferred in accordance with Malmore’s wishes upon appointment as
administrator. 
 
Plaintiff
elected to forego making any claim with the probate court (presumably in the
19STPB09601 action), though nothing in the operative complaint alleges any
actual forbearance agreement with any identified person. 
 
Plaintiff
also later met with counsel for Ginger in December 2020, Richard Hoefflin, who
also purportedly acknowledged the agreed upon transfer of the clinic.
Notwithstanding the purported “agreement,” Hoefflin informed Plaintiff that as
counsel for Ginger, representation was solely limited to the interests of
Ginger, and specifically disclaimed any representation of the interests of
Plaintiff in any capacity. Hoefflin also purportedly told Plaintiff that any
statute of limitations on a probate claim lapsed either way.
 
On
February 6, 2021, Ginger demanded a rental payment from Plaintiff. Plaintiff
subsequently began paying rent. Following other communications, the parties
entered into a seven month lease for the premises beginning on May 1, 2022, and
ending November 30, 2022. Following the death of Ginger, and assumption of
trustee duties by Pelton, a notice of termination of the lease was later
delivered stating that a month to month tenancy now existed on the property as
of June 30, 2023 (notwithstanding the lapse of the actual lease on November 30,
2022).
 
On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Quasi Specific
Performance/Constructive Trust, Promissory Estoppel, and Unjust Enrichment, and
Elder Financial Abuse. On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Related
Cases for the instant action with Pasadena unlawful detainer action,
23PDUD02724. On October 24, 2023, the court declined to find the complaints
related. On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Quasi
Specific Performance/Constructive Trust, Promissory Estoppel, and Unjust
Enrichment. On December 14, 2023, Department 1 deemed the unlawful detainer
action related to the instant complaint. 
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend.
Request
for Judicial Notice & Supplement Request for Judicial Notice: Granted in
Part/Denied in Part.
·        
The
court takes judicial notice of the death certificate, and the request for
dismissal. 
·        
The
court takes judicial notice of the Probate Court orders for the existence of
the orders, but not any factual findings. (Kilroy v. State of California (2004)
119 Cal.App.4th 140, 147-148; Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
·        
The court denies judicial notice of the lease.
 
Defendant
Kelly B. Pelton, Trustee of the Brandenburg Family Trust Dated October 28,
2019, brings the subject demurer to the entire first amended complaint for
Quasi Specific Performance/Constructive Trust, Promissory Estoppel, and Unjust
Enrichment on grounds that all claims are barred by the one year statute of
limitations, and lacks facts in support of the claims. Plaintiff counters that
the causes of action were both timely filed and sufficiently pled. Defendant in
reply reiterates the statute of limitations bar, and lack of factual basis.
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the
complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant
maintains a one-year statute of limitations governs the case under Code of
Civil Procedure section 377.20, while Plaintiff counters while Plaintiff cites
to section 366.2, 366.3, and 339. Even assuming a valid statute of limitations
claim, Plaintiff also relies on an equitable estoppel basis. 
 
Section
377.20 states: “(a) Except as otherwise
provided by statute, a cause of action for or against a person is not lost by
reason of the person's death, but survives subject to the applicable
limitations period. (b) This section
applies even though a loss or damage occurs simultaneously with or after the
death of a person who would have been liable if the person's death had not
preceded or occurred simultaneously with the loss or damage.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 377.20.)
 
In citing to section
377.20, the demurrer relies on a primary assumption that any and all claims lie
against Ginger Brandenburg for the “alleged misrepresentation” (e.g.
represented promise to transfer the property pursuant to the wishes of
Malmore). Plaintiff offers no apparent challenge to this characterization of
the gravamen of the operative claims. Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 366.2: “(a) If a person against whom an action may be brought
on a liability of the person, whether arising in contract, tort, or otherwise,
and whether accrued or not accrued, dies before the expiration of the applicable
limitations period, and the cause of action survives, an action may be
commenced within one year after the date of death, and the limitations period
that would have been applicable does not apply.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 366.2,
subd. (a).)
 
Given
the pled date of death as September 24, 2022, and the filing date of the
complaint on October 10, 2023, the more than one year gap between the date of
death and the original complaint filing date establishes an untimely filed action
as against Ginger, subsequently becoming a claim against the estate. Plaintiff
acknowledges the time lapse, but maintains no statute of limitations bar in
that no claim vested against Ginger at the time of death, since she was only
awarded the property on October 12, 2022, by court order. While the October 12,
2022, order clearly places the claim within one year of accrual, Plaintiff
continues that the actual claim only accrued on April 11, 2023, when Pelton was
awarded all property. For purposes of the subject demurrer, the court declines
to consider this unpled factual allegation, as extrinsic to the four corners of
the operative pleading. The court also questions whether such an argument
seemingly and improperly disregards the allegations in the complaint regarding
the interim substitution of Joe Brandenburg after the death of Ginger.
 
Defendant
in reply cites to “Law Revision” committee notes regarding the intent and
interpretation of the statute regarding the strict interpretation of the one
year from death limitation. The argument factually depends on a finding that
the claim against Ginger on the date of death—September 24, 2022. Defendant
correctly interprets the statute, but the argument also improperly assumes
accrual of the claim at the time of death and disregards the plain language of
Code of Civil Procedure section 366.2, subdivision (a) regarding accrual versus
non-accrual of a claim and the language of section 366.3, subdivision (a). (Dacey v. Taraday (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 962, 983.) 
 
“Section
366.2's use of the term ‘survives’ can readily be harmonized with its
application to claims ‘whether accrued or not accrued’ by applying the latter
to reach situations where the cause of action existed while the decedent was
alive, but had not yet accrued for limitations purposes—as where the decedent
had perpetrated a fraud of which the plaintiff was unaware. In such a case, the
decedent's death triggers the limitations period prescribed by the statute,
regardless of any accrual rule otherwise governing the claim. The result is to
require would-be claimants to seek out and assert any claims they might have
against the decedent within a year of his death, or suffer the loss of those
claims.” 
 
“Reading
the statute as a reference to claims that did not exist
at the time of death burdens the statute with a glaring self-contradiction
because, as already noted, it speaks in terms of an action that ‘survives,’
i.e., that might have been brought against the decedent while living. Insofar
as the Battuello court adopted such a reading, we decline to
follow it. We conclude that section 366.2 was inapplicable here, because
appellant's claim could not come into existence until decedent died having
failed to make provision in accordance with her alleged agreement ...”
 
“We
turn then to section 366.3, which provides in pertinent part, ‘If a person has
a claim that arises from a promise or agreement with a decedent to distribution
from an estate or trust or under another instrument, whether the promise or
agreement was made orally or in writing, an action to enforce the claim to distribution may be commenced
within one year after the date of death, and the limitations period that would have been applicable does
not apply.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 366.3, subd. (a).)”


(Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 554.)
 
The plain language of
the statute still requires a one year statute of limitations from the date of
death, regardless of any court order subsequently establishing accrual of the
cause of action. (Id. at p. 556.) To the extent Plaintiff concedes the
claims accrued against Ginger, the court finds no basis evading the statute of
limitations given the more than one year gap between the death of Ginger and
the filing of the complaint, with no intervening claims presented to the
probate court. (Ibid.) The court finds the reliance on a superseding,
foundational statute of limitations, such as section 339, insufficiently
addresses the plain language of section 366.3, subdivision (a) where the claims
fall against a deceased person. (Davies v. Krasna (1975) 14 Cal.3d 502, 508.)
 
The court otherwise
declines to consider the new arguments in reply regarding accrual of the claim
in 2019 based on the appointment of Ginger as administrator and personal
representative of the Malmrose Estate on November 7, 2019 and December 2, 2019.
The facts are beyond the scope of the operative pleading, and not subject to
judicial notice for purposes of the demurrer. The court also declines to allow
Defendant to present an alternative basis for accrual of the statute of
limitations given the discussion under sections and in the reply without
granting Plaintiff the opportunity to respond.
 
Plaintiff alternatively maintains promissory and equitable
estoppel precludes the imposition of the statute of limitations. Defendant
challenges any basis of promissory or equitable estoppel. Generally, a statute of limitations begins to run “when the cause of
action is complete with all of its elements”—namely, wrongdoing, causation, and
resulting harm. (Norgart v. Upjohn Co.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397; Pooshs v.
Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 788, 797 [“A cause of action
accrues ‘when [it] is complete with all of its elements’—those elements being
wrongdoing, harm, and causation”].) “In the statute of limitations
context, equitable estoppel may be appropriate where the defendant's act or
omission actually and reasonably induced the plaintiff to refrain from filing a
timely suit. (Citation.) The requisite act or omission must involve a
misrepresentation or nondisclosure of a material fact bearing
on the necessity of bringing a timely suit. (Citation.)” (Doe
v. Marten (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 1022, 1028.)
 
Promissory estoppel
constitutes the second cause of action. “The elements of a promissory estoppel
claim are ‘(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by
the party to whom the promise is made; (3)[the] reliance must be both
reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be
injured by his reliance.’” (Aceves
v. U.S. Bank, N.A. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 225 (internal
quotation marks omitted).) “The elements of
equitable estoppel are ‘(1) the party to be estopped must be
apprised of the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon,
or must so act that the party asserting the estoppel has a right to believe it
was so intended; (3) the other party must be ignorant of the true state of
facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury. [Citation.]’
[Citation.] The detrimental reliance must be reasonable. [Citations.] [¶] An
additional requirement applies in cases involving equitable estoppel against the government. In such a
case, the court must weigh the policy concerns to determine whether the
avoidance of injustice in the particular case justifies any adverse impact on
public policy or the public interest.” (Schafer v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 1250, 1261.)
 
Plaintiff in opposition
refers to the subject defenses in context of the statute of frauds, but it’s
not clear how and where the statute of frauds applies in the instant action.
(See Civ. Code, § 1624.) Assuming application of the principles however, the
court finds no basis of reasonable reliance causing Plaintiff to forbear from
submitting a claim to the Probate Court in the first action. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 418.) Any alleged
representations from Ginger thereby inducing action on a claim accruing after
death leaves an uncrossable logical gap for purposes of stating such a claim.
[First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 47, 60, 87-89.] If the court accepted the allegations
of the claim regarding the formation of the claim in 2019, as presented by
Defendant in reply, a follow through on this potential accrual date, undermines
the earlier consideration regarding accrual based on the court dates.
 
The court therefore
finds under the currently alleged version of the complaint and arguments, the
claims are barred under the statute of limitations without any basis for
extension. 
 
1st
Cause of Action: Quasi Specific Performance/Constructive Trust
The
court acknowledges the argument regarding potential claim preclusion, but finds
the discussion insufficiently addressed by both sides, especially given the
denial of the existence of a California Supreme Court actually published by the
First District Court of Appeal. (Holabird v. Superior Court of Fresno County (1929) 101 Cal.App. 49, 52.)
 
3rd
Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment
The Second
Appellate District no longer recognizes unjust enrichment as a cause of action.
(Melchior v. New Line Productions,
Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793.) “Unjust enrichment is a
‘general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies,’ rather
than a remedy itself.” (Ibid.) This remedy may still be pled in conjunction
with a valid cause of action. (Jogani v.
Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911; Slovensky v. Friedman (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1518, 1535.) To
the extent the subject cause of action depends on “wrongful acquisition” of the
property, as addressed above, the court finds no basis for an unjust enrichment
claim at this stage.
 
Given
the subject demurrer constitutes the first review of the operative pleading by
this court, the court sustains the demurrer with 30 days leave to amend. The
court grants leave to amend in order to allow Plaintiff the opportunity to
address the statute of limitations arguments, claim preclusion, and any other
items raised in the demurrer. Plaintiff may not add any new causes of action. (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any new
causes of action added without leave of court may be subject to a motion to
strike. Material changes to the operative complaint seeking to alter the material
terms of any purported agreements or representation may also be subject to a
demurrer under the sham pleading standard.
 
The
court will concurrently conduct the Case Management Conference.
 
Defendant
to give notice. 
 Dept.
68Date:
 2-15-24 c/f 1-17-24Case
#: 23STCV24643Trial
Date: Not Set STAY OR CONSOLIDATION MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Kelly Pelton, et al. RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Norma Salceda RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
to Stay or Consolidate SUMMARY
OF ACTIONIn
October, 2001, Plaintiff Norma Salceda, commenced leasing 13672 Van Nuys Blvd.,
Pacoima, for operation of an OB/GYN medical practice on the premises. The
premises were owned by Nance Malmrose. Plaintiff and Malmrose were also
personal friends. In
2010, Plaintiff offered to purchase the property from Malmrose. Two weeks
later, Malmrose rejected the purchase offer, and instead promised to bequeath
the property to Salceda at the time of death in to be reflected in an updated
will/estate plan. Following the promise, Plaintiff suggested conversion of the
property into a community healthcare center instead of continuing as an OB/GYN
clinic. Malmrose agreed. Plaintiff subsequently engaged in plans to convert the
premises, and began investing funds for the remodel plus working with
government agencies. On
January 23, 2019, passed away intestate with no spouse or offspring. No will
was ever found, and Plaintiff accuses a private nurse to Malmrose, Ken Preston,
with absconding it.  On
October 12, 2022, Ginger Brandenburg (Ginger), child of decedent’s “late
husband” Earl Malmrose (stepdaughter of Malmrose?) was awarded “100% of
Malmrose’s” estate valued at approximately “11 million dollars” (19STPB09601).
Ginger Brandenburg however passed away on September 24, 2022, two weeks before
the award. Ginger’s surviving husband, Joe Brandenburg, was designated trustee.
Joe subsequently resigned as trustee, thereby leading to the designation of
Kelly Brandenburg Pelton (Pelton) as successor trustee. A later probate
proceeding (23STPB00795) facilitated the transfer of all assets into the Brandenburg
family trust. Plaintiff
alleges that prior to Ginger being awarded the estate, Plaintiff nevertheless
informed Ginger Brandenburg about the purported agreement to leave the
commercial premises for the community clinic. The wish of the property was
confirmed by a third party “financial advisor” affiliated with the Malmrose
estate. Ginger purportedly assured Plaintiff that the property would be
transferred in accordance with Malmore’s wishes upon appointment as
administrator.  Plaintiff
elected to forego making any claim with the probate court (presumably in the
19STPB09601 action), though nothing in the operative complaint alleges any
actual forbearance agreement with any identified person.  Plaintiff
also later met with counsel for Ginger in December 2020, Richard Hoefflin, who
also purportedly acknowledged the agreed upon transfer of the clinic.
Notwithstanding the purported “agreement,” Hoefflin informed Plaintiff that as
counsel for Ginger, representation was solely limited to the interests of
Ginger, and specifically disclaimed any representation of the interests of
Plaintiff in any capacity. Hoefflin also purportedly told Plaintiff that any
statute of limitations on a probate claim lapsed either way. On
February 6, 2021, Ginger demanded a rental payment from Plaintiff. Plaintiff
subsequently began paying rent. Following other communications, the parties
entered into a seven month lease for the premises beginning on May 1, 2022, and
ending November 30, 2022. Following the death of Ginger, and assumption of
trustee duties by Pelton, a notice of termination of the lease was later
delivered stating that a month to month tenancy now existed on the property as
of June 30, 2023 (notwithstanding the lapse of the actual lease on November 30,
2022). On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Quasi Specific
Performance/Constructive Trust, Promissory Estoppel, and Unjust Enrichment, and
Elder Financial Abuse. On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Related
Cases for the instant action with Pasadena unlawful detainer action,
23PDUD02724. On October 24, 2023, the court declined to find the complaints
related. On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Quasi
Specific Performance/Constructive Trust, Promissory Estoppel, and Unjust
Enrichment. On December 14, 2023, Department 1 deemed the unlawful detainer
action related to the instant complaint.  RULING: Granted.Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted in Part/Denied in Part.·        
The
court takes judicial notice of the request for dismissal. ·        
The
court takes judicial notice of the Department 1 order for the existence of the
order deeming the cases related, but not any factual findings. (Kilroy v. State of California (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 140, 147-148; Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) ·        
The court denies judicial notice of the Declaration of Richard Hoefflin. Plaintiff
Salceda moves to stay the related unlawful detainer action or alternatively
consolidate the cases. Plaintiff moves for relief on grounds both cases involve
claims regarding ownership and possession of the property. Defendant in
opposition challenges the motion on grounds the instant action and the pending
unlawful detainer complaint lack common questions of law and fact. Defendant
specifically relies on the concurrently scheduled demurrer in support of the
argument, as well as a claim of prejudice. Defendant concludes that any stay
requires a preliminary injunction and posting of an undertaking. Plaintiff in
reply reiterates the propriety of consolidation. Plaintiff denies the necessity
of any application for preliminary injunction.  “Trial courts generally have the inherent
power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of
Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 1048 grants discretion to the trial courts to consolidate actions
involving common questions of law or fact.” (Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 976, 978.) The section states in relevant part: “(a)
When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.“(b)  The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.” “Consolidation is not a matter of right; it rests solely within the
sound discretion of the trial judge.” (Fisher
v. Nash Bldg. Co. (1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 397, 402.) There are two types of
consolidation under §1048: “a consolidation for purposes of trial only, where
the two actions remain otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation or
consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions are merged into a single
proceeding under one case number and result in only one verdict or set of
findings and one judgment.” (Hamilton v.
Asbestos Corp. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) The court finds the allegations of the complaint sufficiently
support a claim for disputed title, thereby supporting a basis for consolidation.
“Because of its summary character, an unlawful
detainer action is not a suitable vehicle to try complicated ownership issues
involving allegations of fraud.” (Mehr
v. Superior Court (1983)
139 Cal.App.3d 1044, 1049; Vella v. Hudgins (1977) 20 Cal.3d 251, 255 [“For our present purpose, it is sufficient to note that
the proceeding is summary in character; that, ordinarily, only claims bearing
directly upon the right of immediate possession are cognizable”]; Cheney v. Trauzettel (1937) 9 Cal.2d 158,
159; Martin-Bragg v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385.) The
arguments in opposition in fact affirm the inability of the UD court to address
the title issues, thereby prompting consolidation without any finding of
collateral estoppel. (Ayala v. Dawson (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1319,
1326-1327.) The court finds no basis for denial of
consolidation simply based on the pending demurrer. The issues regarding
ownership and possession remain to be adjudicated. The court therefore grants
the motion to consolidate. Given the consolidation of the actions,
the court stays the unlawful detainer proceeding pending adjudication of the
action. The court also finds no basis of necessity for any request under Code
of Civil Procedure section 526, including the posting of an undertaking, given
the authority of this unlimited jurisdiction court to stay the action. (Asuncion v. Superior Court (1980) 108 Cal.App.3d 141, 146.)
The unlawful detainer case is therefore transferred from the unlawful detainer
court to this department. The two cases will now be captioned
under one case number, with the unlimited case number serving as the lead
number. All dates in the Unlawful Detainer Court are
now vacated.  All documents filed going
forward shall only be filed using the lead case number. The court, however, will consider requests for
the continued payment of rent on the premises pending adjudication of the
underlying action. Nothing in the consolidation and stay pending adjudication
of the property right claims in any way relieves any current rent obligations
for use of the premises.
The court will also concurrently conduct the Case Management Conference. Plaintiff
to give notice.  
