  Case Number:  21BBCV01044    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



DAVID MYERS
  and SUNNY PARK,
 
                                           
  Plaintiffs,
vs.
 
DAVIS BROTHERS CONSTRUCTION,
  INC., TIMOTHY WILLIAM DAVIS, GRACIE DAVIS, KARINA DAVIS, MORNING STAR
  DEVELOPMENT, INC, and DOES 1 to 10, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)


Case No.:  21BBCV01044
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO VACATE ARBITRATION; AND FOR MONETARY
  SANCTIONS AGAINST MORNING STAR DEVELOPMENT, INC.
 
 
Date:   March
  13, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
 
 
I.        INTRODUCTION
          In this breach of contract action, Plaintiffs David Myers
and Sunny Park (collectively Plaintiffs) allege that the contractor who agreed
to remodel their home breached the remodeling agreement in a variety of ways.
Defendants are the owners and principals of the contractor, Davis Brothers
Construction (collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs seek an order vacating the
Court’s February 28, 2023 order compelling Plaintiffs to arbitrate their disputes
pursuant to an arbitration provision in the remodeling contract. 
          This motion was filed February 6, 2024. Defendant Morning
Star Development filed an opposition on February 26, 2024. The other Defendants
also filed an opposition on February 26, 2024. Plaintiffs filed a reply on
March 4, 2024. This motion was moved from March 8, 2024 to its current date of
March 13, 2024.
For
the reasons that follow, the motion is GRANTED. Monetary sanctions are also assessed
against Morning Star Development, Inc.
 
          II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
          Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice        
          Plaintiffs request that the Court take judicial notice of
various pleadings and documents, identified as Exhibits 1 through 9, that have
been filed in this case.
Davis
Defendants’ request for judicial notice
          Defendants Davis Brothers Construction, Timothy Davis,
Gracie Davis and Karina Davis also request the Court take judicial notice of
the following documents: (1) the Complaint, (2) the First Amended Complaint,
(3) the Second Amended Complaint and (4) the declaration of Kennedy Williams
submitted in support of the Motion to Compel Arbitration.
          Though it is not necessary to take judicial notice of
papers already in the court file, the requests are granted.  (See Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) (Evid.
Code § 453; Scott v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
743, 754-755.)
          
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
Civ. Proc. §1281.2 provides that upon petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate and a
party’s refusal to submit to arbitration, the court shall order the parties to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement exists; unless it finds
that the right to arbitrate has been waived, that grounds exist for revocation,
or that a party to the agreement is also party to  pending litigation arising out of the same
facts and there exists a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of fact or law.  In one of those
situations, the court may: (1) refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and
order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action, (2) order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues, (3) order arbitration
among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the action pending
outcome of arbitration, or (4) stay arbitration pending outcome of the
litigation.
“[I]n
an employment or consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or
through application of state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration
administrator, the drafting party to pay certain fees and costs before the
arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to initiate an arbitration
proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party
is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the
arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration...” (CCP § 1281.97(a).)

Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1281.98 provides that “if the fees or costs required
to continue the arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the
due date, the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration
agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel the
employee or consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a result of the
material breach.” (CCP § 1281.98(a).)
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1280(e) defines a “drafting party” as including “any
third party relying upon, or otherwise subject to the arbitration provision,
other than the employee or consumer.”
 
III.     ANALYSIS 
          A. Material Breach by “Drafting Party”
Plaintiffs
urge that sections 1281.97 and 1281.98 both apply here.  The Court agrees that the arbitration between
the parties is a consumer arbitration, as Plaintiffs were the
consumers/recipients of promised home improvements by Defendants. (Motion, p.12:
20-26.)  Additionally, the American
Arbitration Association acknowledged this as a consumer arbitration. (Szabo
Decl. ¶¶ 9,20, referencing Exh. 2.)  The
claims brought by Plaintiffs are consumer-related. Lastly, Defendant Davis
Brothers Construction Inc. was the business that wrote the arbitration
provision into its contract with Plaintiffs. Morning Star was formed by the
Davis defendants after the remodeling contract was entered into (and not
finished). (Morning Star Opposition p. 6: 5-9.)
On
March 24, 2023, AAA acknowledged the Plaintiffs’ arbitration claim and communicated
the need for timely fee payment by the parties. (Szabo Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. 2.) The
arbitration process went forward. On October 30, 2023, AAA notified counsel of
record for all parties that the amounts due must be paid within 30 days after
notification. (Szabo Decl. ¶¶ 15-16, Exh. 8, see CCP § 1281.98.) AAA followed
up on November 17, 2023 that Respondents (i.e., Defendants) still had not paid.
(Szabo Decl. ¶ 17, Exh. 9.) On December 27, 2023, AAA sent a letter stating that
Respondent Morning Star still had not paid. (Szabo Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. 10.) On
December 30, 2023, AAA sent a letter to all parties indicating that because of
the non-payment by Morning Star, Claimants/Plaintiffs had the option to
withdraw from the arbitration and proceed in court. (Szabo Decl. ¶¶ 20-21, Exh.
12.)
In their
opposition, Defendants Davis Construction and the individual Davis defendants argue
that they did not materially breach the arbitration agreement because they paid
their fees, and thus that the motion to vacate arbitration does not apply to
them. (See Davis Opposition p. 4: 21-23.)
In its
opposition, Morning Star does not debate that it did not pay any arbitration
fees; however, it urges that it is not a “drafting party.” (Morning Star
Opposition p. 6: 4-27.) Morning Star was incorporated in Idaho in March of
2021. The Contract between Davis Brothers Construction and Plaintiffs which
contained the arbitration provision was signed and executed more than six
months earlier, on May 19, 2020. (Second Amended Complaint ¶ 19.) Additionally,
although Morning Star admittedly was formed by Tim Davis, one of the individual
Davis defendants, it claims that it is a separate entity, formed for the
purpose of “flipping” houses. (Tim Davis Decl. ¶¶ 13, 22, Morning Star
Opposition p. 3: 16-18.) Morning Star asserts that it “did not just simply
continue Davis Brothers as a business in Idaho.” (Davis Decl. ¶ 22.)  
However,
in their reply, the Plaintiffs point out that the definition of drafting party,
as set forth in CCP Section 1280(e), is “the company or business that included
a predispute arbitration provision in a contract with a consumer or employee. The
term includes any third party relying upon, or otherwise subject to the
arbitration provision, other than the employee or consumer.” (CCP § 1280(e)(emphasis
added).) Here, the motion to compel arbitration was clearly brought by all
Defendants, including Defendant Morning Star. (1/6/23 Motion to Compel.) By
doing so, Morning Star relied on the arbitration agreement.[1] 
As such, there was a material breach by a drafting
party. Therefore, the Court  GRANTS the
motion to vacate the order compelling arbitration. 
          
B.
Sanctions
          “If the employee or consumer proceeds with an action in a
court of appropriate jurisdiction, the court shall impose sanctions on the
drafting party in accordance with Section 1281.99.” (CCP § 1281.97(d).)
 “The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against a drafting party that materially breaches an arbitration agreement
pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97 or subdivision (a) of Section
1281.98, by ordering the drafting party to pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees and costs, incurred by the employee or consumer as a
result of the material breach.” (CCP § 1281.99(a).) The court may also order
non-monetary sanctions, such as terminating sanctions or evidence sanctions.
(CCP § 1281.99(b).)
Plaintiffs’
attorney Lawrence Szabo attested to performing 16 hours preparing this motion.
(Szabo Decl. ¶ 27.) He anticipates spending an additional 1 hour for review of
the oppositions to the motion, 2.5 hours to draft a reply, and 1 hour for the
hearing, for a sum total of 20.5 hours. Mr. Szabo’s hourly rate is $375. 
           The Court finds the
hourly rate reasonable. Although the time requested is on the high side, the
Court awards all hours requested.
          The Court declines to impose any other form of sanction. 
          
C.
The Stay is Lifted
          Because the order compelling arbitration is vacated, the
stay imposed pursuant to the granting of the motion is now lifted. 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Plaintiffs’ motion to vacate the order compelling
arbitration is granted. The stay in the case is lifted.  Defendant Morning Star is ordered to pay $7,687.50
in monetary sanctions to Plaintiffs within forty-five (45) days of today’s
date.  
          Defendants are ordered to file a verified answer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of today’s date.
Additionally,
Defendants are ordered to provide responses to all outstanding discovery within
thirty (30) days of today’s date.  
A
Trial Setting Conference is scheduled for ________________, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
in this Department.     
          Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          
 
 
Dated:
____________                            ___________________________________
                                                                        MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT          


