 Case Number:  22SMCV01905    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Mejia v. Campione
et al., Case No. 22SMCV01905
Hearing Date
October 13, 2023
Defendant/Cross-Defendant
Woo’s Demurrer to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Campione’s Cross-Complaint
Woo and Campione’s
Motions to Compel Responses to Written Discovery (UNOPPOSED) 
 
In this three-car
collision defendant Campione cross-complained, seeking indemnity and contribution
from co-defendant Woo for plaintiff’s damages. 
 
Demurrer
Woo demurs, arguing
the cross-complaint is duplicative of Campione’s answer and if Campione
prevails on an affirmative defense, damages will be apportioned between the
defendants, the same relief sought in the cross-complaint. Woo also argues
Campione’s request for attorney’s fees is improper. 
 
Campione cites Platt
v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal. App.3d
1439, 1447. Platt stated “strong policies favoring settlement and
equitable apportionment of liability are effected through a cross-complaint for
equitable indemnity among joint tortfeasors.” Id. In light of this
policy, “the fact liability will be appointed in the underlying action” does
not preclude a cross-claim for equitable indemnity or contribution, unless
“under the particular facts alleged, the cross-complaint would operate
inequitably.” Id. 
 
Woo does not
allege facts showing the cross-complaint would produce inequitable results. Under
Platt, the cross-claims may proceed, despite the possibility that
damages may be apportioned in the main action. 
 
Woo’s argument
that Campione improperly seeks attorney’s fees is unavailing. There is no
“partial demurrer” – even if the court were to strike the request for
attorney’s fees, no cause of action in the cross-complaint would be defeated
since Campione identifies other categories of damages. This is an improper
basis for demurrer. Finally, Woo claims “the right to indemnification does not
arise unless some legal obligation exists to the injured party[,]” and no such
obligation exists. This fact argument is improper on demurrer, when the court
must treat all allegations as true. OVERRULED. 

 
Discovery Motions 
Campione and Woo served
written discovery requests on plaintiff Mejia. Neither received responses, and
both move to compel. Campione and Woo appeared at an informal discovery
conference and attempted to meet and confer with Mejia’s counsel. Khosrowpour
decl. ¶¶2-7, Richardson decl. ¶¶2-8. An order compelling discovery is proper,
as well as sanctions. There is no opposition, so no basis for the court to take
action other than granting the motions. Campione seeks $720 in sanctions,
representing three hours of work at $215/hr., plus $75 in costs. This is
reasonable. Woo seeks $2,4000 for eight hours work at $300/hr. The hourly rate
is reasonable, but eight hours is excessive. Woo is awarded sanctions
representing three hours of attorney work at $300/hr, a total award of $900. GRANTED.
Campione awarded $720 in sanctions; Woo awarded $900. Payable within 30 days.