  Case Number:  21STCV19095    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Tubol v. Diaz, MD
et al., Case No. 21STCV19095 
Hearing Date
October 13, 2023 (continued from October 11, 2023)
Defendants Diaz’s
Motion for Summary Judgment – Reply Brief
 
Defendants’
summary judgment motion was continued from October 11, 2023 for the court to consider
defendants’ reply brief. This tentative ruling addresses the reply brief and is
to be considered in conjunction with the prior tentative.
 
Diaz’s evidentiary
objections OVERRULED. 
 
In reply, Diaz
argues plaintiff’s expert Dr. Lee’ declaration lacks foundation because Lee
failed to review all of Diaz’s post-procedure reports and only some Kaiser
records. 
 
Diaz fails to show
Lee’s declaration is without evidentiary support. Lee reviewed numerous
records, including Kaiser urgent care records, Diaz’s post-procedure notes and
operative notes from the implant removal and skin graft procedures. See plaintiff’s
compendium exhibit B. Lee examined plaintiff on March 9, 201. Lee declaration
¶7. These documents and the examination provide foundation to make Lee’s
opinion admissible.
 
Diaz argues Lee’s
opinion is not stated to a reasonable degree of medical probability, misstates
the evidence and fails to address evidence showing lack of causation. 
 
Lee’s declaration
states “[e]ach of my opinions stated herein is to a reasonable degree of
medical probability,” the standard for expert medical opinion. Lee declaration
¶6. 
 
Diaz argues Lee
ignores evidence that Tubol was prescribed antibiotics at Kaiser after a wound
culture, proving Tubol’s injuries were not caused by a failure to conduct a
wound culture. Lee does not opine plaintiff was never prescribed antibiotics or
that she never received a wound culture; it does opine that Diaz failed to
conduct his own wound culture, causing him to prescribe an antibiotic to which
her infections were resistant. Lee decl. ¶¶10-13, Exhibit B. Lee further opines
that had Diaz performed his own culture, he would have determined Tubol had
Enterobacter and pseudomonas infections and prescribed the correct antibiotic.
Id. ¶13. Lee opines that if the correct antibiotic had been prescribed, Tubol
“more likely than not would have avoided her additional surgical procedures.” Id.

 
Though Lee does
not directly address Tubol’s smoking, he provides a sufficiently supported
opinion that prescribing the wrong antibiotics was the primary cause of her
injury. Lee decl. ¶¶10-12. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact
as to whether Diaz’s acts and omissions caused her injuries. DENIED. 