  Case Number:  23STCP03651    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Uber Technologies, Inc.,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP03651




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Eric Ruiz, et al., 


 
 
 
Respondents.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 18, 2024.
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Petition to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Petitioner Uber Technologies
Responding Party: Labor Commissioner
 
T/R:     THE PETITION IS GRANTED. 
 
PETITIONER TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers
and supplemental briefing.
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….”  (CCP § 1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
Petitioner moves to compel arbitration
of Respondent Ruiz’s wage and hour claims based on the arbitration provision in
the Platform Access Agreement executed by Ruiz on January 6, 2020. (Decl. Sauerwein,
Exh. F.) The agreement requires arbitration of “any legal
dispute, past, present or future, arising out of or related to your
relationship with [Uber] or relationship with any of our agents, employees,
executives, officers, investors, shareholders, affiliates, successors, assigns,
subsidiaries or parent companies...” (Id.) The agreement states that it is governed by the FAA.
 
At the November 30, 2023 hearing on
this motion, the Court tentatively found that Petitioner has met its burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate, and Plaintiff did not oppose showing any
defenses to enforcement. 
 
At the hearing, the parties informed
the Court that the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement (DLSE) had issued a
ruling and Petitioner had filed an appeal of the ruling seeking de novo
review. (That case, no. 23STCP04042, is pending in this Court and is related to,
but not consolidated with, the instant case.) The Labor Commissioner for the
first time requested that the Court determine whether Labor Code § 98.2 should
apply to an arbitration of the appeal of the DLSE ruling. The Court ordered
supplemental briefing on the issue.
 
In the supplemental briefs, Petitioner asks
the Court to also compel to arbitration the related case appealing the DLSE
decision. And the parties argue whether Labor Code § 98.2 should apply to the
appeal of the DLSE opinion, and whether the Court or the arbitrator makes that
decision.
 
The supplemental briefing revealed the
procedural improprieties of the parties’ requests. Before the Court is whether Petitioner
and Ruiz have an agreement to arbitrate claims for Labor Code violations. The
Court found that such an agreement exists. The complexities arising from the DSLE
proceedings, ruling, and appeal were not part of the noticed motion. Neither
party has moved to compel the related case to arbitration, nor have the parties
addressed in that matter the role of Section 98.2 in any such proceeding. The
Court will not determine questions that have not properly been brought before
the Court. 
 
If a party seeks to arbitrate the
appeal of the DLSE opinion and/or determine the applicability of Section 98.2
to that appeal, the party must file a motion to compel arbitration in the related
case.  
 
The Court denies the request to stay
the DSLE proceedings or the appeal from the DSLE decision.
 
 