 Case Number:  23STCV03842    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Del Deandre
  Young, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03842




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:
January 18, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to
Complaint and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants
County of Los Angeles, LAC+USC Medical Center, Rancho Los Amigos National
Rehabilitation Center
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Del Deandre Young
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO
STRIKE IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom
at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers and opposition.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 21, 2023, Plaintiff Del Deandre Young sued Defendants County
of Los Angeles, LAC+USC Medical Center, and Rancho Los Amigos National
Rehabilitation Center, asserting causes of action for dependent adult abuse,
negligence, and violation of the Residents’ Bill of Rights. Plaintiff alleges
he developed a pressure sore in Defendants’ care.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Statute of
Limitations
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on the ground that it is barred by the
applicable statutes of limitations. Defendants assert Plaintiff failed to file
this suit within six months of notice of rejection of Plaintiff’s government
claim per Gov. Code § 945.6. Plaintiff alleges his claims accrued between February 25, 2021 and March 8, 2021 when he
learned his pressure sore was caused by Defendants’ alleged negligence.
Plaintiff alleges he presented a government claim on November 4, 2021, which
was denied on December 3, 2021. Plaintiff filed this action on February 21,
2023.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
asserts the six-month period was tolled while Plaintiff challenged Defendants’
denial in a court petition. (RJN, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff filed the petition on
April 27, 2022, less than six months after December 3, 2021 and 37 days before
sixth-month deadline of June 3, 2022. The court denied the petition on January
9, 2023. (RJN, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff argues that he had 37 days (the number of
days the statute of limitations was paused once Plaintiff filed the petition)
to file suit. 37 days from January 9, 2023 was February 18, 2023, a Saturday.
Monday February 20, 2023 was President’s Day, making February 21, 2023 the
deadline to file suit. This is sufficient at the pleading stage to establish
timeliness. The demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis.
 
B. Dependent
Adult Abuse
 
A Dependent Adult
Abuse/Neglect cause of action must contain allegations that Defendants: “(1)
had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of [an] elder . . . such as
nutrition, hydration, hygiene, or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that
made the elder unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; . . . (3)
denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet [those] basic needs”;
(4) knew that “that injury was substantially certain” or consciously
disregarded the “high probability of such injury”; and (5) this “neglect caused
the elder . . . to suffer physical harm, pain, or mental suffering.” (Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07
[citations omitted].)
 
Defendants assert Plaintiff’s
claims for dependent adult abuse fail to allege sufficient facts. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants were responsible for his basic needs as he was a quadriplegic
following a motorcycle accident. Plaintiff alleges Defendants knew the risk of
pressure sores was high but consciously disregarded this risk, resulting in
severe injury to Plaintiff. This is sufficient to allege dependent adult abuse.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
C. Motion to
Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages on the
ground that punitive damages are not recoverable against a government entity pursuant
to Gov. Code § 818. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts the exemplary damages
allowed for dependent adult abuse are different than standard punitive damages
and may therefore be stated against Defendants. Plaintiff fails to provide
authority in support of this assertion.
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED.
 


 