  Case Number:  22STCV06234    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  B TENTATIVE RULINGJUAN CERVANTES-ZARAGOZA, Plaintiff, vs. SUSANA SAMPEDRO, et al. Defendants. Case No.: 22STCV06234 Hearing Date: November 13, 2024BACKGROUNDOn March 28, 2024, Defendants Fabricio Espinoza and Gonzala Espinoza initially noticed Plaintiff Juan-Cervantes-Zaragoza (“Plaintiff”)’s deposition for May 15, 2024. (Ng Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. A [notice of deposition].) On May 8, 2024, the deposition was continued and a notice thereof was served upon Plaintiff rescheduling for May 28, 2024. (Ibid. at ¶ 4; Exh. B.) Plaintiff did not object to either notice. (Ibid. at ¶ 5.) On May 28, 2024, defense counsel and the court reporter appeared for the deposition. (Ibid. at ¶ 6.) Neither Plaintiff nor Plaintiff’s counsel appeared. The court reporter issued a certificate of non-appearance. (Ibid.; Exh. C [certificate].) On May 30, 2024, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel. (Ibid. at ¶ 7; Exh. D [meet and confer].) Defendants provided five additional dates for Plaintiff’s deposition. (Ibid.) Plaintiff did not respond. (Ibid. at ¶ 8.) Defendants now move the Court to compel Plaintiff’s deposition.LEGAL STANDARDAny party may obtain any discovery of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 provides in pertinent part the following:“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040 or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.Where a motion to compel a party’s appearance and testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) On motion of a party who, in person or by attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party and against the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(2).)DISCUSSIONDefendants have met all requirements to compel deposition: the parties sufficiently met and conferred, the deposition was properly noticed for a date agreed upon by all parties, no objections were served, and Plaintiff failed to appear for the deposition.Defendants’ motion to compel is granted and Plaintiff is ordered to sit for his deposition within 20 days of this hearing.Defendants request sanctions in the amount of $1,210.00. Sanctions are mandatory and the court does not find Plaintiff acted with substantial justification. Plaintiff failed to appear at the initially noticed deposition, thereby causing Defendant to incur deposition and attorney fees associated with filing the present motion. The Court finds the amount requested reasonable and orders sanctions against Plaintiff and his attorney, jointly and severally, of $1,210.00 payable to Defendants’ attorney within 30 days of today.Moving party to give notice.