 Case Number:  23CMCV00700    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00700
 Evelin Quintero v. Wily Oris Barrios, et al.
Tuesday,
 January 16, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
IN PART AND DENYING IN PART AMENDED MOTION BY DEFENDANT, WILY OSIRIS BARIOS, TO
COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND  REQUEST FOR IMPOSITION OF MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING IN PART TWO AMENDED MOTIONS BY DEFENDANT,
W.B.& E. PROPERTIES, TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM AND
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR IMPOSITION OF MONETARY
SANCTIONS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The
first amended complaint filed on October 24, 2023, alleges that Plaintiff
suffered injury as the result of the uninhabitable conditions of leased
premises owned by Defendants. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant breached a
Lease-to-Buy Agreement granting Plaintiff exclusive rights to the property with
an option to purchase for one year.  
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant,
Wily Osiris Barios (“Barios”) served Plaintiff with special interrogatories on
September 6, 2023. Defendant, W.B.& E. Properties, (“WBE”) served Plaintiff
with form and special interrogatories on September 13, 2023. Both Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s responses were evasive, incomplete, and contained
boilerplate objections. The parties have not been able to resolve the issues
despite numerous attempts to meet and confer informally and with the Court. 
      In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the parties met with the Court for an
informal discovery conference on November 17, 2023. Defendants filed these
motions without further attempt to meet with Plaintiff, who provided amended
responses on November 28, 2023. The “amended” motions do not mention
Plaintiff’s amended responses, and Defendants refused to provide a copy of the
“amended” motions. Defendants did not meet and confer with respect to
Plaintiff’s amended responses. 
      In
reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff refused to extend the deadline for
Defendants to file motions to compel further responses, then sent amended
responses on November 28, 2023, after Defendant filed these motions and after
the IDC with the Court. Plaintiff did not inform Defendants that Plaintiff
intended to serve amended responses. 
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
A party can move to compel a further response to
interrogatories where the party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete or
an objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a).)
The parties are required to meet and confer prior to making the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(b).) A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be given “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing.” Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a
further response to the interrogatories. Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(c).
Plaintiff served responses to Barrios’ and
WBE’s written discovery on October 5, 2023. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 2. The 45th
day (increased by five calendar days for service by mail) to file motions to compel
further was November 24, 2023. (Decl. of Lopez, Ex. 1.) The parties met and
conferred informally between October 17 and October 30, 2023. Defense counsel,
Steven Lopez, requested an extension to file a motions to compel by December 4,
2023. (Lopez Decl., Ex. 7.) Plaintiff refused to do so citing defense counsel’s
failure to agree to meet and confer, for making disparaging remarks, and defense
counsel’s failure to articulate the purported deficiencies. (Lopez Decl., Ex.
8.) 
Plaintiff again refused to extend the 45-day
deadline because Defendants refused to commit to an IDC, although Mr. Lopez
offered to reserve an IDC in his email of October 24, 2023, wherein Plaintiff’s
counsel purported to be unaware of what was at issue. (Lopez Declaration, Ex.
6, Ex. 10.) Mr. Lopez again requested an IDC by email dated October 31, 2023.
(Lopez Decl., Ex. 9.) 
Mr. Lopez set an IDC for November 17, 2023, in
which Plaintiff participated. However, while Plaintiff “represented” that she
intended to provide amended responses, there is no documentary evidence of that
fact although there are 40-50 other emails as Plaintiff’s counsel admits that
were exchanged in efforts to meet and confer. (Spegler Decl., ¶ 8.) Nor is
there evidence that Plaintiff agreed to extend the motion deadline given the
parties’ agreement to participate in an IDC seven days before the deadline.
Defendants were forced to file the motions to
compel by November 24, 2023, given Plaintiff’s refusal to extend the 45-day
deadline, which was unreasonable given the parties’ extensive attempts to
resolve their issues. [1] Moreover,
if Plaintiff had indicated she intended to supplement responses, this would
have avoided the need for Defendants to file these motions since the
45-deadline would have re-started from the day the supplemental responses were
served. 
The consequence of these failures to meet and
confer in good faith with respect to motion deadlines or to communicate as to whether
or not Plaintiff would voluntarily supplement without motion was to cause undue
burden and costs for Defendants and the Court; additionally, the motions do not
address the supplemental responses since Defendants were unaware they would be
forthcoming.  
Contrary to Plaintiff’s oppositions, the
motions are not made moot by her service of supplemental responses which she
served nine days after the IDC. (Opp. 4:18-19.) Without allowing an extension of
the 45-day motion deadline which expired one week after the IDC, or informing that
she would supplement, Defendants were forced to engage in needless motion
practice. 
      Abuse of the discovery process include employing
a discovery method that causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense; making unmeritorious objections or
evasive responses to discovery; opposing a motion to compel without substantial
justification; and failing to meet and confer in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.010. Plaintiff has not shown substantial justification for any of the
conduct previously identified.   
 
IV.    CONCLUSION
 
      An order
compelling Plaintiff’s further response is no longer necessary since Plaintiff
opted to voluntarily amend the responses without informing anyone. However,
Plaintiff’s abuse of the discovery process warrants imposition of monetary
sanctions. The Court finds that $375 per hour, three hours to draft each of
three motions, and one hour to prepare a reply brief and appear at the hearing,
for a total of 10 hours are reasonable. Defendants incurred $60 in filing fees
per motion. Accordingly, the Court imposes sanctions of $3,930, against Plaintiff,
Evelin Quintero, and her counsel, Robert Spelger, jointly and severally,
payable to Defendants within 10 days.  


