 Case Number:  22STCV39220    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THE GREENSPAN CO., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JENNIFER MCCULLUM,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV39220
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING GREENSPAN ADJUSTERS’
  DEMURRER; GRANTING GREENSPAN ADJUSTERS’ MOTION TO STRIKE; SUSTAINING IN PART ETEHAD’S
  DEMURRER; DENYING ETEHAD’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 5, 2024



 
On December 19, 2022, The Greenspan
Co., aka The Greenspan Co./Adjustors International Inc. (“Greenspan”) filed this
action against Jennifer McCullum.  The Complaint
alleges that McCullum failed to pay for Greenspan’s services in obtaining insurance
proceeds for her.
On
December 6, 2023, McCullum filed a Cross-Complaint against Greenspan, Greenspan
Adjusters International Inc. (“Greenspan Adjusters”), Adjusters International/California
Inc. (“Adjusters California”), Matthew Blumkin, Matthew Goldstein, Sydney Greenspan,
Etehad
Law APC, and Simon Etehad.  The Cross-Complaint
alleges (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) fraud, deceit, and concealment; (3) constructive
fraud; (4) conversion; (5) civil theft; (6) accounting; (7) money had and received;
(8) declaratory relief (against Greenspan only); (9) negligence; and (10) restitution.
On
February 23, 2024, Greenspan Adjusters filed a demurrer and motion to strike.
On
March 1, 2024, Etehad Law APC and Simon Etehad (collectively, “Etehad”) filed a
demurrer and motion to strike.
LEGAL
STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
GREENSPAN
ADJUSTERS’ DEMURRER
Greenspan
Adjusters’ request for judicial notice of three filings in In The Matter Of Greenspan
Adjusters International, Inc., NPN: 7812070, is granted in part.  In doing so, the Court takes judicial notice of
the documents’ existence and the issues presented to the New Mexico Office of Superintendent
of Insurance (“OSI”), and not the truth of the contents as fact.  “While courts take judicial notice of public records,
they do not take notice of the truth of matters stated therein.  [Citation.] 
‘When judicial notice is taken of a document, . . . the truthfulness and
proper interpretation of the document are disputable.’  [Citation.]” 
(Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1366, 1375.)
A.        The Cross-Complaint Does Not Sufficiently
Allege Agency.
Greenspan
Adjusters demurs to all causes of action because McCullum fails to allege duty or
agency.  (Demurrer at pp. 8-10.)
Greenspan
Adjusters relies on the OSI ruling that established “(1) that no contract existed
between GAII and McCullum, but rather McCullum’s public adjuster contract was with
The Greenspan Company, (2) McCullum never has done business with GAII, and (3) the
public adjusters that McCullum alleged worked on her claim, Matthew Blumpkin, and
Sydney Greenspan, were never employed by GAII.” 
(Demurrer at p. 9.)  This requires
the Court to accept the truth of the contents of the RJN exhibits, not just their
existence.  At most, the Court can consider
the that the OSI’s ruling dismissed the Order to Show Cause, struck all hearing
dates, and cancelled all appointments.  (RJN,
Ex. C. at p. 3.)  Greenspan Adjusters’ argument
is outside the scope of demurrer.
Greenspan
Adjusters also argues that the allegations about its involvement are entirely predicated
on the allegation that Greenspan Adjusters “was the agent, employee, partner, and
representative of each of the other Cross-Defendants.”  (Demurrer at p. 10; see Cross-Complaint ¶ 11.)  “An allegation of agency constitutes an averment
of ultimate fact, which we accept as true on a demurrer.  [Citations.] 
But where factual allegations are based on information and belief, the plaintiff
must allege ‘information that “lead[s] [the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations
are true.”’  [Citation.]”  (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th
1077, 1106.)  The Cross-Complaint alleges
that “Cross-Complainant is informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that, at
all times herein mentioned, each of the Cross-Defendants was the agent, employee,
partner, and representative of each of the other Cross-Defendants, and in doing
the things herein alleged, was acting within the authorized course and scope of
this agency, employment, partnership, and representation with the full knowledge
and consent of the remaining Cross-Defendants.” 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 11.)  There are
no facts about information that leads McCullum to believe that the allegations are
true.
The
demurrer is sustained on this ground.
B.        The Cross-Complaint Does Not Sufficiently
Allege Breach of Fiduciary Duty (First Cause of Action).
A
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty requires (1) a fiduciary duty, (2)
breach of the duty, and (3) damage caused by the breach.  (Charnay v. Cobert¿(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th
170, 182.)  “A fiduciary relationship is ‘
“ ‘any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties
is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other
party.  Such a relation ordinarily arises
where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in
such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts
or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts relating
to the interest of the other party without the latter’s knowledge or consent . .
. . ’”’”  (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)
McCullum
alleges that the cross-defendants breached their fiduciary duties by concealing
material facts concerning the insurance policy, refusing to act in McCullum’s interests,
engaging in covert deals amongst themselves and with others to perpetrate illicit
acts and transactions, and forging documents, among other things.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 40.)  However, there are no specific allegations about
Greenspan Adjusters’ fiduciary relationship with McCullum, aside from the general
agency allegations.  (See Demurrer at pp.
10-11.)
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained.
C.        The Cross-Complaint Does Not Allege Fraud
with Specificity (Second and Third Causes of Action).
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citations.]  The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity
but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.  [Citations.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 230-231.)
Fraud
based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed
a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact
to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 310-311.)
Fraud
must be pleaded with specificity.  (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  “‘This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’  [Citation.]  A plaintiff’s burden in asserting a fraud claim
against a corporate employer is even greater. 
In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the names of the persons who made
the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’  [Citation.]” 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
McCullum
alleges that the cross-defendants “knew that none of them had the licenses required
under applicable law to undertake the Engagement,” but they expressly represented
that they did during a January 28, 2021 phone call.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 16.)  “On repeat occasions, orally and in writing,”
the cross-defendants continued to misrepresent that they were and had been properly
licensed to undertake the Engagement.  (Cross-Complaint
¶ 17.)  The cross-defendants also concealed
conflicts of interests, concealed and evaded McCullum’s inquiries to them concerning
the facts that they were unlicensed, and concealed denials of policy benefits.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 23-25.)  However, the Cross-Complaint does not contain
factual allegations about who made the statements or omissions, their authority
to speak, or Greenspan Adjusters’ duty to disclose the facts.  (See Demurrer at pp. 11-12.)
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained.
Similarly,
the third cause of action for constructive fraud also fails.  “The elements of the cause of action for constructive
fraud are: (1) fiduciary relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty);
(3) intent to deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation).”  (Younan v. Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
498, 516, fn. 14.)  The Cross-Complaint does
not allege specific facts to support these elements.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained.
D.        Conclusion
Greenspan
Adjusters’ demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
GREENSPAN
ADJUSTERS’ MOTION TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Greenspan
Adjusters moves to strike portions of paragraphs 43, 48, 61, and 68, as well as
the prayer for punitive damages.
A
plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort cases where “the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  Punitive
damages thus require more than the mere commission of a tort.  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 894-895.)  A corporate employer can be
liable for punitive damages only when an officer, director, or managing agent of
the corporation authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (b).)  The Cross-Complaint’s
conclusory allegations are insufficient.
The
motion to strike is GRANTED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
ETEHAD’S
DEMURRER
A.        The Cross-Complaint Sufficiently Alleges
a Fiduciary Relationship (First Cause of Action).
Etehad
argues that there are no allegations of a fiduciary relationship.  (Demurrer at pp. 3-4.)
“When
an attorney receives money on behalf of a third party who is not his client, he
nevertheless is a fiduciary as to such third party.  Thus the funds in his possession are impressed
with a trust, and his conversion of such funds is a breach of the trust.”  (Johnstone v. State Bar (1966) 64 Cal.2d
153, 155-156.)  That is what is alleged here.  The Cross-Complaint alleges that the Greenspan
Cross-Defendants received a check from State Farm (for the benefit of McCullum),
they delivered it to Etehad for deposit into their bank account, all cross-defendants
fraudulently endorsed the check, and they concealed the receipt of the check.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 30-34.)
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.
B.        The Cross-Complaint Does Not Allege Fraud
with Specificity (Second and Third Causes of Action).
Etehad
argues that the fraud-based claims do not allege fraud with specificity.  (Demurrer at p. 4.)
McCullum
alleges that the cross-defendants “knew that none of them had the licenses required
under applicable law to undertake the Engagement,” but they expressly represented
that they did during a January 28, 2021 phone call.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 16.)  “On repeat occasions, orally and in writing,”
the cross-defendants continued to misrepresent that they were and had been properly
licensed to undertake the Engagement.  (Cross-Complaint
¶ 17.)  The cross-defendants also concealed
conflicts of interests, concealed and evaded McCullum’s inquiries to them concerning
the facts that they were unlicensed, and concealed denials of policy benefits.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 23-25.)  However, the Cross-Complaint does not contain
factual allegations about who made the statements or omissions and their authority
to speak. 
The
demurrer to the second and third causes of action is sustained.
C.        Civil Theft Does Not Allege Sufficient
Facts, But Conversion and Unjust Enrichment are Sufficient (Fourth, Fifth, and Tenth
Causes of Action).
Etehad
argues that the property-related causes of action allege only conclusions of law.  (Demurrer at pp. 4-5.)
Conversion requires (1) plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of personal property, (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with
plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. 
(Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
97, 119)  McCullum argues that the cross-defendants
“wrongfully received and retained monies that were owed to and owned by Cross-Complainant”
and “exerted wrongful dominion over the property of the Cross-Complainant.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 64-65.)  Specifically, Etehad deposited the check into
their own account, fraudulently endorsed it, and concealed it from McCullum.  This sufficiently alleges facts about Etehad’s
disposition of McCullum’s property.  The demurrer
to the fourth cause of action is overruled.
Civil theft requires that “(i) property was stolen or obtained in a
manner constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the property was so stolen or
obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had possession of the stolen property.”  (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th
116, 126.)  The Cross-Complaint alleges that
Etehad obtained McCullum’s property “by theft, on false pretenses, through embezzlement,
through forgery, and through larceny, and knowingly withholding the property from
the Plaintiff and aiding and abetting in obtaining, concealing, and knowingly withholding
said property.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 70.)  This is conclusory and does not allege knowledge
of stolen property.  The demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is sustained.
“The
elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the ‘receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’  [Citation.]” 
(Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.)  Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, but
a court may construe a cause of action for unjust enrichment as a cause of action
for quasi-contract seeking restitution.  (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.)  Like with the conversion claim, there are sufficient
allegations of Etehad’s receipt and retention of McCullum’s funds.  The demurrer to the tenth cause of action is overruled.
D.        The Cross-Complaint Does Not Sufficiently
Allege Accounting (Sixth Cause of Action).
“A
cause of action for accounting requires a showing of a relationship between the
plaintiff and the defendant . . . that requires an accounting or a showing that
the accounts are so complicated they cannot be determined through an ordinary action
at law.”  (Fleet v. Bank of America N.A.
(2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1413.)
The
Cross-Complaint alleges that “[t]he accounts relating to the Policy, Policy benefits,
and related funds, including the $500k Check, are so complicated that an ordinary
legal action demanding a fixed sum is insufficient,” and “Cross–Defendants are in
possession of certain books, records, and statements for and relating to these matters.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 75-76.)  However, McCullum also alleges that Etehad received
and deposited the $499,770.00 check from State Farm.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 30-32.)  There are no facts, instead of a mere conclusion,
about the matter being so complicated that an accounting is necessary.  (See Demurrer at p. 6.)
The
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained.
E.        The Cross-Complaint Sufficiently Alleges
Money Had and Received (Seventh Cause of Action).
“A cause of action for money had and received is stated
if it is alleged the defendant ‘is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum “for
money had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.”’  [Citation.]” 
(Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.)
The
Cross-Complaint alleges that Etehad received and deposited the $499,770.00 check
from State Farm.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 30-32.)  The cross-defendants “received money that was
intended to be used for the benefit of Cross-Complainant,” the money was not used
for her benefit, and the cross-defendants owe the money.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 79-82.)  This sufficiently alleges money had and received.
The
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled.
F.         The Cross-Complaint Does Not Sufficiently
Allege Negligence (Ninth Cause of Action).
A
cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to
use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
The
Cross-Complaint alleges that Etehad owes a duty to McCullum under Civil Code section
1714, which provides that “[e]veryone is responsible, not only for the result of
his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or
her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person,
except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought
the injury upon himself or herself.”  (Cross-Complaint
¶ 91.)  The cross-defendants “engaged in negligence
in that they failed to exercise ordinary care under the circumstances in their dealings
with Cross-Complainant, to Cross-Complainant’s detriment.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 92.)  This is conclusory, reciting some elements of
negligence without alleging facts.  As Etehad
argues, “There is no way, from the face of the Cross-Complaint, for the Etehad Cross-Defendants
to have any idea what they allegedly did that falls within the ambit of Civil Code
§1714(a). . . . There is no answer to be found in the pleading.”  (Demurrer at pp. 6-7.)
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained.
G.        Conclusion
The
demurrer to the second, third, fifth, sixth, and ninth causes of action is SUSTAINED
with 30 days’ leave to amend.
The
demurrer is otherwise OVERRULED.
ETEHAD’S
MOTION TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Etehad
moves to strike paragraphs 39-43, 63-68, 70-73, 75-76, 83, 95-96, and 97, as well
as the second and third causes of action on the grounds that “: the matter is irrelevant,
false or improper, as no facts supporting this allegation have been alleged as to
Etehad Law, APC or Simon Etehad.”  This is
duplicative of demurrer and not proper for a motion to strike.
The
motion to strike is denied.
CONCLUSION
Greenspan
Adjusters’ demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.  Greenspan Adjusters’ motion to strike is GRANTED
with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Etehad’s
demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART as set forth above, with 30
days’ leave to amend.  Etehad’s motion to
strike is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 