 Case Number:  24STCV06803    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COMMERCIAL SCAFFOLDING OF CALIFORNIA, INC.,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SECOND BAPTIST CHURCH OF LOS ANGELES, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV06803
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO AMEND COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 5, 2024



 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff Commercial Scaffolding of
California Inc. filed this action against Defendants Second Baptist Church of Los
Angeles and U.S. Small Business Administration. 
Plaintiff later dismissed U.S. Small Business Administration.  On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for
leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”).
The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)  The Court does not ordinarily consider the validity
of the proposed amended pleading when determining whether to grant leave to amend.  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Plaintiff
identifies the amendments and provides a copy of the proposed FAC.  Plaintiff seeks to correct the address for the
mechanic’s lien and remove now-dismissed U.S. Small Business Administration as a
defendant.  Plaintiff discovered the incorrect
address on July 11, 2024 and has recorded a corrected lien.  The amendment is necessary to ensure the correct
property address and the current parties. 
(See Amended Boruszewski Decl.)
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the unopposed motion for leave to amend the complaint
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file
and serve the FAC within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 