 Case Number:  23STCV10746    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ISABEL KILROE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FCA US, LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV10746
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 5, 2024




 


 


 



 
On
March 22, 2024, Plaintiff Isabel Kilroe served Requests For Production of Documents,
Special Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories, and Requests for Admission on Defendant
FCA US LLC.  On May 3 and 7, 2024, Plaintiff
filed motions to compel.  Defendant served
untimely responses on May 27, 2024, shortly before the May 30, 2024 hearing.  Although the motions were then moot, the Court
ordered Defendant to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff.
On
June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant’s compliance with its
responses to RFP Nos. 1-8.  The Court’s July
16, 2024 order noted that Defendant’s responses declaring that it would comply in
full were made on May 27, 2024, but Defendant still did not produce any documents.  The Court granted the unopposed motion and awarded
monetary sanctions to Plaintiff.
Plaintiff
followed up with Defendant about document production on July 25, July 31, August
12, and August 20, 2024.  (Inscore Decl. ¶
8.)  On August 21, 2024, Defendant sent an
empty link and claimed that it was unaware of the Court’s order, which Plaintiff’s
counsel re-supplied that day. (Inscore Decl. ¶ 9.)  Defendant then produced documents responsive to
RFP Nos. 2, 4, and 5.  (Inscore Decl. ¶ 9.)  On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff followed up again
to request supplementation.  (Inscore Decl.
¶ 10.)
At
Defendant’s September 9, 2024 deposition, Plaintiff discovered that Defendant failed
to produce the correct warranty, the correct owner’s manual, diagnostic materials,
and communications logs.  (Inscore Decl. ¶¶
14-17.)  Plaintiff followed up by email on
September 9 and 17, 2024, but Defendant failed to supplement its production.  (Inscore Decl. ¶ 19.)
The
parties were not ready for trial at the September 16, 2024 Final Status Conference,
so the Court continued the Final Status Conference and trial dates.  The Court did not reset any discovery and motion
deadlines.
On
October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to reopen discovery and for sanctions
against Defendant.  Plaintiff seeks issue,
evidentiary, and monetary sanctions.  Defendant
did not file any opposition.
DISCUSSION
A
court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated facts must be taken
as established in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).)  A court may
also impose an issue sanction prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.  (Ibid.)
Defendant
has still failed to produce (1) the warranty; (2) the owner’s manual; (3) vehicle
diagnostic evidence; (4) call logs that identify witnesses; (5) policies for dealers;
(6) lemon law policies; and (7) call center policies.  (Inscore Decl. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff
argues that she cannot prevail without proving that Defendant provided a warranty
that was breached.  (Motion at p. 8.)  Plaintiff also argues that she is entitled to
the owner’s manual defining the proper use and care of the high voltage battery
and the diagnostic evidence, if Defendant claims it is defective.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff therefore seeks an order that it be
taken as established that “Plaintiff’s vehicle had a defect covered by the warranty
that substantially impaired the vehicle’s use, value, or safety to a reasonable
buyer in her situation.”  (Id. at pp.
ii, 10.)  This issue sanction would affirmatively
answer CACI verdict form at question 3: “Did the vehicle have a defect covered by
the warranty that substantially impaired the vehicle’s use, value, or safety to
a reasonable [buyer/lessee] in [name of plaintiff]’s situation?”  (Id. at pp. 8-9.)
Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant’s withholding of the persons at its call center, witnesses,
and policies that it imposes on call center workers and its dealerships prevents
her from being able to prove Defendant’s willfulness.  (Motion at p. 9.)  Plaintiff therefore seeks an order that it be
taken as established that “Defendant willfully failed to repurchase or replace Plaintiff’s
vehicle.”  (Id. at pp. ii, 10.)  This issue sanction would affirmatively answer
CACI verdict form at question 7: “Did [name of defendant] willfully fail to repurchase
or replace the [new motor vehicle]?”  (Id.
at p. 9.)
Additionally,
Plaintiff seeks an order prohibiting Defendant from attempting to introduce evidence
or argument to contradict the findings of the issue sanctions.  (Motion at p. 9.)
Defendant
still has not produced necessary documents in response to Plaintiff’s March 22,
2024, despite the Court’s July 16, 2024 order. 
This continued through the September 16, 2024 Final Status Conference, when
the parties were supposed to be prepared for the September 30, 2024 trial.  Now, with the trial scheduled for January 27,
2025, Defendant is still obstructing Plaintiff from being able to present her case.  Accordingly, the Court will impose sanctions on
Defendant.
CONCLUSION
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART.
The
Court ORDERS that it must be taken as established that (1) Plaintiff’s vehicle had
a defect covered by the warranty that substantially impaired the vehicle’s use,
value, or safety to a reasonable buyer in her situation; and (2) Defendant willfully
failed to repurchase or replace Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Defendant may not introduce evidence or argument
to contradict the findings of these issue sanctions.
The
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions of $6,560.00 to Plaintiff within 30
days.
The
request for an order reopening the discovery motion cutoff is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  (See Motion at pp. 4-5.)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 