  Case Number:  19STCV25208    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
DEFAULT JUDGMENT REVIEW 
 



JASON T. YU
 
        
  vs.
 
KRISTOPHER RENE
  GOMEZ, et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  19STCV25208 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: May 7, 2024



 
 
Defendant
Mendiola’s motion to set aside the entry of default is DENIED, WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.      
 
On 2/16/2022,
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC) against Kristopher Rene Gomez,
KMD Property Solutions, LLC, and Victor Mendiola, alleging: (1) fraud and
intentional misrepresentation; (2) concealment; (3) violation of the Unfair
Competition law; (4) violation of California Civil Code section 1102; (5)
breach of contract; (6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) negligence; and (8)
violation of Civil Code section 2079.
 
            On
5/23/2023, default was entered against Victor Mendiola.[1]

 
            On
4/5/2024, Victor Mendiola (Defendant) moved to set aside the entry of default
and his dismissal.
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 473, subdivision
(b) provides:
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.
 
            Here, default was entered against
Mr. Mendiola on 5/23/2023 and he moved to set aside default on 4/5/2024.
Accordingly, Mr. Mendiola moves to set aside the entry of default outside of
the sixth month deadline for relief. (CCP § 473, subd. (b). However, “[a]fter
six months from entry of default, a trial court may still vacate a default on
equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.” (Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981.) 

 
In order to avail itself of this
equitable relief, a party must make the following showing: “[f]irst, the
defaulted party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Secondly, the
party seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse
for not presenting a defense to the original action. Lastly, the moving
party must demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once it
had been discovered.” (Stiles v. Wallis (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1143,
1147.) 
 
            Here,
Mr. Mendiola offers no explanation as to why he did not present a defense, nor
does he even state when he discovered that default had been entered against
him. Rather, Mr. Mendiola’s entire argument is devoted to a contention that he
has been improperly named as a Defendant in this action and that Plaintiff
cannot establish any claim against him. 
 
            Defendant
is representing himself in pro per and may not be aware of the
requirements to qualify for equitable relief. Given Defendant’s failure to
provide fundamental information related to such relief, the Court must deny the
motion. However, the Court denies the motion without prejudice in the event
that Mr. Mendiola believes that he is able to set forth evidence that he meets
the conditions for equitable relief.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant Mendiola’s motion to set aside the entry of default
is denied, without prejudice.     
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 


