  Case Number:  23STCV12977    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JASMIN HERNANDEZ, an individual;
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SRC HOLDINGS, LLC, a Delaware Corporation; SAP SOLUTIONS, INC, a
  California Corporation; KANAPLYA, LLC, a Limited Liability Company; PEARL MANAGEMENT
  GROUP, INC, a California Corporations; PEARL PHARMA, INC., a California
  Corporation; MAGIC APPLIANCE, INC., a California Corporation; CRYSTAL AIR INC,
  a California Corporation; COVELLO INVESTMENTS, LLC, a California Limited Liability
  Company; CHASE MEDICAL ASSISTING AND SUPPLIES, INC., a California
  Corporation; CARE EVOLUTION, INC., a California Corporation; BLUEBELL FARMS,
  INC., a California Corporation; JULIA PERLMAN, an Individual; MICHAEL PERLMAN,
  an Individual; IGOR DEKHTERMAN, an Individual; and DOES 1-100, inclusive;
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV12977
 Hearing Date:   4/09/24
 Trial Date:        2/25/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants SRC
  Holdings, LLC, SAP Solutions, Inc., Kanaplya, LLC Pearl Management Group, Inc.,
  Pearl Pharma, Inc., Magic Appliance, Inc., Crystal Air Inc., Chase Medical
  Assisting and Supplies, Inc., Care Evolution, Inc., and Bluebell Farms, Inc.’s
  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Pursuant to a June 7, 2023 Complaint, Plaintiff Hernandez sues Defendants
SRC Holdings, LLC (SRC), SAP Solutions, Inc. (SAP), Kanaplya, LLC (Kanaplya),
Pearl Management Group, Inc. (Pearl Management), Pearl Pharma, Inc. (Pearl
Pharma), Magic Appliance, Inc. (Magic Appliance), Crystal Air, Inc. (Crystal
Air), Covello Investments, LLC (Covello; since dismissed), Chase Medical
Assisting and Supplies, Inc. (Chase Medical), Care Evolution, Inc. (Care
Evolution), Bluebell Farms, Inc. (Bluebell Farms), Julia Pearlman, Michael,
Pearlman, Igor Dekhterman, and Does 1-100.
The Complaint alleges claims of (1) Violation of Labor Code Section
1102.5, (2) Violation of Labor Code Section 98.6, (3) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy, (4) Violation of Labor Code Section 226, (5)
Violation of Labor Code Sections 201, 202, and 218, (6) Violation of Labor Code
Section 203, (7) Violation of Labor Code Section 2802, (8) Violations of Labor
Code Sections 1182, 1197, and IWC Wage Order 5 § 4, (9) Unfair Business
Practices, and (10) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED).
The claims arise from the following allegations.
Defendants SRC, SAP, Kanaplya,
Pearl Management, Pearl Pharma, Magic Appliance, Crystal Air, Chase Medical,
Care Evolution, and Bluebell Farms (collectively, the Entity Defendants, not
including the since-dismissed Covello), and Defendants Julia Perlman, Michael
Perlman, and Igor Dekhterman (collectively, the Individual Defendants) operate
cannabis growing and distribution companies that taken together are one
enterprise, with the Entity Defendants as the alter egos of the Individual
Defendants.
From January to July 2020,
Plaintiff worked as a consultant for Defendants. In August 2020, Defendant
Julia Perlman promised Plaintiff a full-time job as Defendants’ controller for
$100,000 per year. Relying on Defendant Perlman’s representation, Plaintiff
quit her then-current job and began working for Defendants. Beginning August
2020 through April 2022, Plaintiff worked as Defendants’ Controller.
Plaintiff’s salary was $100,000 per year. From August 2020 through April 2022,
Plaintiff worked over 40 hours a week and over 8 hours per day each week but
was only compensated $36,000.
As part of her job
responsibilities, Plaintiff was required to travel from Los Angeles to Santa
Rosa for one week per month. Defendants did not reimburse Plaintiff for
mileage. Defendants required Plaintiff to live in their house during this week.
Plaintiff also utilized her personal phone and internet services for work as
she worked from home three weeks of the month. Defendants did not reimburse
Plaintiff.
Around April 2022, Plaintiff
demanded that she be compensated for her work. Defendants refused. Defendants’
refusal resulted in Plaintiff’s termination.
In addition to the above conduct,
Defendants also engaged in other prohibited acts, such as using the Entity
Defendants to stop employees from unionizing.
As a result of Defendants’ conduct,
Plaintiff has suffered, and continues to suffer humiliation, embarrassment,
emotional distress, and mental anguish.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On January 23, 2024,
the Entity Defendants filed a motion to strike from the Complaint (1) the
prayer for punitive damages based on failure to allege (a) oppression, malice,
or fraud and (b) approval or ratification by a corporate decisionmaker and (2)
references to Penal Code section 484 based on a lack of relevance to the
Complaint’s claims—which the Court notes are premised on the Labor Code and
IIED.
On March 26, 2024,
Plaintiff Hernandez filed an opposition to the Entity Defendants’ motion to
strike.
On April 2, 2024, the
Entity Defendants filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
The Entity Defendants’
motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Strike
A.
Legal Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B.
Analysis
1. Punitive Damages: DENIED.
a. Relevant Law
“In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a); College Hospital Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725 (College Hospital)
[explaining amendments requiring “despicable” conduct for malice and
oppression].)
When
the defendant is a corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages … must rest on
the malice of the corporation’s employees’” specifically, “the oppression,
fraud, or malice perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation,” where a managing agent
“include[s] only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent
authority and judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that their
decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (Wilson v. Southern
California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164, citations omitted.)
Under
the Civil Code, “[a]n employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).) Moreover, “corporate employers[] […] may not be liable for punitive
damages unless ‘the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice [is] on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.’ [Citation.]” (White
v. Ultramar (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566, fn. 1.) The statute was amended in
1980 to include the limitations in subdivision (b). (Ibid.)
A
motion to strike is properly granted when a complaint fails to allege facts to
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages under the standards of the
statute. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) Alleging an intentional tort alone is not enough to
support a claim for punitive damages, nor are conclusory allegations that
merely parrot the language of the statute. (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166; Blegen v. Superior Court (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d
959, 963.)
b. Parties’ Arguments
In
their motion to strike, the Entity Defendants argue that the Complaint insufficiently
alleges (1) the oppression, fraud, or malice required for punitive damages and
(2) the corporate decisionmaker(s) who made the decisions to ratify or
otherwise approve the unlawful conduct at issue in the pleadings. (Mot., pp.
4-6.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff Hernandez argues that punitive damages are sufficiently
supported by the Complaint’s allegations. Plaintiff refers to the allegations
regarding Defendants Perlman, Perlman, and Dekhterman (the Individual
Defendants) using the Entity Defendants as their alter egos and using the
Entity Defendants to stop employees from unionizing. The opposition then goes
to explain other bases for oppression, fraud, or malice and corporate decision-making
in the Complaint’s allegations. (Opp’n, pp. 6-8, citing Complaint, ¶¶ 17 &
35, 41, 47, 88, Prayer, ¶ 4 [underlying conduct supporting punitive damages]
& ¶¶ 35, 41, 47, 88 [“Defendants” condoned, ratified, or encouraged
conduct].)
In
reply, the Entity Defendants argue that the gravamen of the case is claims
arising in tort, not contract, and that, here, the Complaint does not allege
the adequate oppression, malice, or fraud by the Entity Defendants. The Entity
Defendants also argue that public records undercut Plaintiff’s position that
the Entity Defendants are closed companies for which the Individual Defendants
are the only shareholders, citing Secretary of State records attached to the
reply in a declaration from counsel to show a lack of relationship between the
Individual Defendants and some of the Entity Defendants. The reply does not
otherwise address the alter ego argument. (Reply, pp. 3-4.)
c. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Hernandez.
The
Court sufficiently alleges oppression. Oppression is defined as despicable
conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard
of that person’s rights. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Used in its
ordinary sense, the adjective ‘despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to
circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (4 Oxford English
Dict. (2d ed. 1989) p. 529.).” (College Hospital, supra, 8
Cal.4th at p. 725; see Lackner v. North (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188,
1210 [similarly defining despicable conduct].)
Here,
the Complaint’s allegations are summarized in Section I.A. Narrowed down for
the purpose of this analysis, they allege that:
(1)
Defendants operate as a joint enterprise with the Entity Defendants as the
alter egos of the Individual Defendants (Complaint, ¶ 17);
(2)
Plaintiff Hernandez was hired as Controller for all Defendants (Complaint, ¶¶
25-26);
(3)
Defendants promised Plaintiff Hernandez compensation of $100,000 per year, but
during her employment between August 2020 and April 2022, Plaintiff Hernandez
was only paid $36,000, i.e., based on the Court’s calculations, over the course
of 21 months, Plaintiff was paid by Defendants at a rate of $1,714.29 per month
or $20,571.43 per year, rather than the promised $100,000 per year, a 79.34%
reduction in salary (Complaint, ¶¶ 25-26);
(4)
Plaintiff Hernandez was required to regularly travel from Los Angeles,
California to Santa Rosa, California for one-week stays and was forced to utilize
her personal phone and internet services for work, with Defendants refusing to
reimburse Plaintiff for these expenses (Complaint, ¶¶ 27-28);
(5)
When Plaintiff Hernandez demanded reimbursement, Defendants terminated her
employment, where the Entity Defendants are alleged as mere alter egos of the
Individual Defendants, who controlled the Entity Defendants in this and all the
above decisions relating to Plaintiff Hernandez (Complaint, ¶¶ 17, 29); and
(6)
Plaintiff Hernandez has suffered damages (Complaint, ¶ 30).
The
Court finds, at minimum, oppression in these allegations. They amount to allegations
that Defendants enticed Plaintiff, an employed individual, to leave her job for
new employment as a Controller for Defendants at a rate of $100,000 per year,
only for Defendants to pay Plaintiff an average of $20,571.43 per year over 21
months, a decision that was approved or ratified by the Individual Defendants,
who operated and controlled the Entity Defendants as their alter egos at all
relevant times.
These
allegations potentially amount to oppressive conduct by the Entity Defendants
and the Individual Defendants, as necessarily approved (rather than ratified)
by the Individual Defendants, subjecting Plaintiff to professional and personal
hardship, in conscious disregard of her Labor Code rights and public policy
(termination).
The
Court also notes that even if the Court were to consider extrinsic evidence
attached for the first time to a reply supporting a motion to strike, that
evidence does not undercut ownership of the Entity Defendants or
whether, for example, the Individual Defendants control the boards or directors
of the Entity Defendants.
It
is also worth noting that the Entity Defendants’ motion does not challenge the
Complaint’s alter ego allegations, nor does their reply respond to the alter
ego arguments raised by Plaintiff in her opposition.
The
Entity Defendants’ motion is thus DENIED as to striking punitive damages from
the Complaint.

2. Motion
to Strike, Pen. Code, § 484 Allegation at Complaint, pp. 1-2: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
Theft may
occur when, “by any false or fraudulent representation or pretense, [a person]
defraud[s] any other person of money, labor or real or personal property.”
(Pen. Code, § 484,
subd. (a).)
b. Parties’
Arguments
In their motion to strike, the
Entity Defendants argue that the Complaint’s brief mention of Penal Code
section 484 on pages one and two is irrelevant to the pleadings where “[t]his
Penal Code section is unrelated to any element of any cause of action by
Plaintiff[] [and] is not referenced in the Complaint other than in the
‘Introduction.’” (Mot., p. 6.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Hernandez
argues that because this is a whistleblower action, reference to Penal Code
section 484 is appropriate where she contends that she complained of an action that
constitutes a violation of law. (Opp’n, p. 9.)
In reply, the Entity Defendants
reiterate their argument that this statutory citation—and a citation to Penal
Code section 487 in the same paragraph—is irrelevant where no theft claim is
raised in the pleadings, making the cite to this statute irrelevant to the
Complaint’s claims. (Reply, p. 2.)
c. Court’s Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff.
While Plaintiff Hernandez is not alleging
a theft claim, she is alleging retaliation for having complained of unlawful
conduct, as stated in, at least, the second and third causes of action, as well
as unfair business practices as stated in the ninth cause of action. (Stevenson
v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 880, 894 [“for a policy to support a
wrongful discharge claim, it must be . . . delineated in either constitutional or
statutory provisions. . . .”] [Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
1350, 1359 [“an act of practice is ‘unfair competition’ under the UCL if it is
forbidden by law . . . .”].)Whether plaintiff will be able to provide factual evidence
sufficient to withstand summary adjudication is not relevant to a determination
at the pleadings stage.
The Entity Defendants’ motion to strike
is thus DENIED. 
III. Conclusion
Defendants SRC Holdings, LLC, SAP Solutions, Inc., Kanaplya, LLC Pearl
Management Group, Inc., Pearl Pharma, Inc., Magic Appliance, Inc., Crystal Air
Inc., Chase Medical Assisting and Supplies, Inc., Care Evolution, Inc., and
Bluebell Farms, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED.