 Case Number:  23STCV10749    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Agustin Arias, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV10749




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Guillermina Patron, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: July 1, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Answer to First Amended
Complaint
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Agustin Arias and Sandra
Gomez
Responding Party: Defendant Estela Villasenor 
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFFS’ DEMURRER TO DEFENDANT
VILLASENOR’S ANSWER IS OVERRULED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a landlord-tenant action. On
February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants. Defendant Estela Villasenor filed an answer to the FAC on
March 22, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Generally speaking, the determination
whether an answer states a defense is governed by the same principles which are
applicable in determining if a complaint states a cause of action.” (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.) However, some vagueness may exist in a defendant’s answer
because most defendants do not have the ability to prove their defenses at the
initial answering phase, which usually occurs before discovery. In
addition, a defendant has a significant incentive to plead every affirmative
defense because a party waives defenses that are not pleaded. As a result,
even where a defense is defectively pled, it may be allowed if the defendant’s
pleading gives sufficient notice to enable the plaintiff to prepare to meet the
defense, in part because un-pled defenses are waived. (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal. 4th 203, 240.) Further, it is settled
law in California that a defendant may plead as many inconsistent defenses in
an answer as her or she may desire and that such defenses may not be considered
as admissions against interest in the action in which the answer was
filed.  (Id. at 241.) 
 
Plaintiffs assert that Defendants has
failed to state sufficient facts to support the subject affirmative defenses.
The Court disagrees. Defendants’ answer provides a clear list of affirmative
defenses and alleges ultimate facts. 
 
The demurrer to answer is OVERRULED.


 