 Case Number:  21STCV44756    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jane Doe,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV44756




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
March 11, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(8) Motions to
Compel Further Responses to Discovery;
Motion for
Protective Order
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFAS, RPDS, FIS AND SIS, SET FOUR ARE
DENIED. DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SIS, SET ONE, IS
GRANTED IN PART. THE REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO
SERVE FURTHER RESPONSE TO THE SUBJECT DISCOVERY WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, oppositions, and replies.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendant County of Los Angeles, asserting claims for
injunctive relief and possession of personal property. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant wrongfully confiscated Plaintiff’s phone data.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Defendant’s (5) Motions to Compel
Further Responses to SIs, FIs, RPDs and RFAs
 
On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that an objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. (CCP 2030.300(a)(3).) The
responding party has the burden of justifying the objections to the form
interrogatories (“FIs”) and special interrogatories (“SIs”).  (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220-221.) 
 
The moving party on a motion to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit
“specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has
shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)
 
On receipt of a response to requests
for admission (“RFAs”) the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that an objection to an RFA is
without merit or too general. (CCP § 2033.290(a)(2).)  
 
Defendants move to compel further
responses to SIs, sets one and four, FIs, set one, RPDs set two, and RFAs, set
two. These requests seek information about Plaintiff’s claim for damages,
Plaintiff’s previous lawsuits, the sale of Plaintiff’s cell phone, the
purported process servers used by Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s phone contacts,
Plaintiff’s text messages, and Plaintiff’s evidence showing the County’s
disclosure of the data to third parties.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts these
requests seek irrelevant information and information that is within Defendants’
possession. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant’s second set of RFAs exceeds
the permissible number of RFAs, and requests that Plaintiff make legal
conclusions. 
 
The Court agrees that Plaintiff’s claim
for damages, the process servers used by Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s legal
conclusions, and Plaintiff’s phone contacts and text messages are irrelevant to
this action. Plaintiff has conceded that she cannot recover damages. The
identities and communications of process servers used by Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s contacts and texts have nothing to do with the merits of this case.

 
Defendant is entitled to information
about Plaintiff’s previous lawsuits. Further response to these interrogatories
is necessary.
 
Defendant’s motions to compel further
responses to RFAs, RPDs, FIs and SIs, set four are DENIED. Defendant’s motion
to compel further responses to SIs, set one, is GRANTED in part. The requests
for sanctions are DENIED.
 
B. Plaintiff’s (3) Motions to Compel
Further Responses to FIs, SIs and RFAs
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to FIs, SIs and RFAs from Defendant. The subject FIs request
Defendant provide information about its affirmative defenses, the SIs request
information about whether Cellbrite reader software is necessary to read
Plaintiff’s cell phone data and about Defendant’s investigation into
Plaintiff’s underlying claim of assault against a third-party.
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts it has
sufficiently responded to FIs, information about the Cellbrite reader is
irrelevant, and tinformation regarding the District Attorney’s investigation
into Plaintiff’s underlying claims are protected as attorney work-product. The
Court agrees. The Court has stated repeatedly that the Cellbrite reader issue
is not relevant to the merits of this case. Defendant responded to FIs to the
best of its ability. The RFAs request protected information and contain
confusing hypothetical requests.
 
Plaintiff’s motions to compel further
responses are DENIED.
 
C. Plaintiff’s Motion for Protective
Order
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (CCP § 2031.060(b).)
Plaintiff moves for a protective order to
protect “confidential information.” Plaintiff does not identify the kind of
information that requires protection or that is confidential. Plaintiff has not
shown the need for a protective order.
Plaintiff’s motion for protective order is
DENIED.


 