 Case Number:  23STCV13679    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Natalie G. Aghaei,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV13679




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: March 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel PMK Deposition and
Further Responses to Requests for Production
Moving Party: Plaintiff Natalie G. Aghaei
Responding Party: Defendant Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE
DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers and opposition.
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a
good faith meet and confer declaration under section 2016.040 or, “when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice,
by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance.”  (CCP §
2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s
PMK on various categories, and to produce documents at deposition. The requests
seek information relating to repairs to the subject
vehicle, Defendant's investigation in response to Plaintiff’s repurchase
request, its communications with Plaintiff, and warranty coverage of the
repairs to Plaintiff’s vehicle. These
categories are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and discoverable. To the extent
that Defendant already has produced the requested documents, Defendant need not
produce them again.
 
Defendant states that the parties have
agreed to an April 9, 2024 deposition date.
 
The motion to compel deposition is GRANTED.


 