  Case Number:  21STCV28185    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Martina A. Silas,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV28185




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
The Fox Law Corporation, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: March 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(2) Motions for Summary Adjudication
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff Martina
Silas filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants The Fox
Law Corporation, Inc., Steven Robert Fox, and Barry Roger Wegman, asserting
causes of action for fraudulent transfer, fraud, conversion, and money had and
received. Plaintiff alleges she obtained a judgment and assignment order
against third-party James Arden for approximately $300,000.00 in 2011. At some
point, Arden filed for bankruptcy. Plaintiff alleges that Arden paid
Defendants, his purported attorneys in the bankruptcy proceedings, with money
that belonged to Plaintiff per the assignment order.
 
 
EVIDENCE
OBJECTIONS
“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.” (CCP §
437c(q).) Plaintiff’s objections to the Say declaration are OVERRULED.
ANALYSIS
 
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (CCP § 437c(f)(1).)
 
A. Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
Defendants move for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of action for declaratory relief and
Defendants’ fifteenth affirmative defense for lack of ownership. Defendants
assert that the majority of funds Arden used to pay Defendants were Arden’s
inheritance funds, which are not subject to the assignment order obtained by
Plaintiff against Arden.
 
Defendants present the declaration and
report of CPA Richard Say. Say performed a Lowest
Intermediate Balance analysis of the Inheritance Funds deposited in the Arden
Accounts between 2017 and 2019. Say declares that this analysis showed
$71,450.80 in inheritance funds and $16,602.50 of funds subject to the
assignment order were paid to Defendants. Defendants request that the Court
“grant the motion for summary adjudication and completely dispose of
Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of action and Defendants’ fifteenth affirmative
defense by finding and concluding that only $16,602.50 in funds paid to
Defendants between 2017 and 2019 is subject to Silas’s claim under the
assignment order and Plaintiff has no interest in $71,450.81 in inheritance
funds paid to the Fox Defendants from and after 2017.”
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts this motion cannot be granted because
it does not completely dispose of a cause of action or affirmative defense. The
Court agrees. As stated, “a
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” (CCP § 437c(f)(1).) Defendants’ own motion admits that some of the
funds paid to Defendants were subject to the assignment order. The Court cannot
dispose completely of the eleventh cause of action or fifteenth affirmative
defense. 
 
CCP § 437c(t) allows a party to move
for summary adjudication of a claim for damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action or affirmative defense if the parties jointly
stipulate to the issues to be adjudicated, and declare “the motion will further
the interest of judicial economy by decreasing trial time or significantly
increasing the likelihood of settlement.” There is no such stipulation or
declaration here. Defendants do not address these procedural defects in reply.
 
Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED.
 
B. Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication of Defendant’s fifteenth affirmative defense for lack of ownership
of funds. Plaintiff argues Arden held any funds subject to Plaintiff’s
assignment order in a constructive trust and therefore any subsequent deposits
from non-assigned funds remain part of the trust. 
 
Plaintiff presents evidence showing Arden’s gross earnings have been assigned to Plaintiff since December
2011; from that time to 2019, Arden earned, and deposited in Wells Fargo Bank,
at least $255,235.92 that he failed to pay Plaintiff; from 2013 to 2019 Arden
paid the Defendants at least $109,858.23 from the same Wells Fargo Bank
account; and, through the last payments to Defendants, SILAS received only
$1,105.51 in interest.
 
In opposition, Defendants present evidence showing at least $71,450.81
of funds paid to Defendants were from Arden’s inheritance, which is not subject
to Plaintiff’s assignment order, using the Lowest Intermediate Balance analysis
of Arden’s accounts.
 
The parties dispute whether the “lowest intermediate balance” analysis
is necessary to determine whether Plaintiff was the rightful owner of funds
paid to Defendants. The Court of Appeal has discussed this issue as follows:
 
Chrysler urges us to adopt an
exception to the intermediate balance rule. It has been held that where a
trustee commingles personal funds with trust funds, and dissipates the
commingled funds such that the trust funds are affected, and then deposits additional
personal funds into the account, it may be presumed that the trustee was
intending to reimburse the trust funds. In such a situation, the trust funds
will be replenished. The case law does not recognize this exception in a
situation such as exists here and in our view this exception, if broadly
applied, would completely emasculate the rule. Rather, it is properly limited
to contests between trustee and beneficiary, where the trustee essentially
embezzles trust funds and subsequently intends to, and does, replace them. A
different situation exists where, as here, third parties have competing
interests in the funds at issue. 
 
(Chrysler Credit Corp. v. Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
1303, 1317.)
 
Here, there are third parties
(Defendants) who have competing interests in the funds purportedly belonging to
Plaintiff. This is not an action against Arden directly.
 
Defendants have established a triable
issue of fact as to the fifteenth affirmative defense. Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 