 Case Number:  22STCV34460    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  WILLIAM JONES, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  GHP MANAGEMENT CORP, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV34460  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 17, 2024  I.  BACKGROUND Defendants GHP Management Corp. and Palmer Temple Street Properties LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) move to compel plaintiff William Jones (“Plaintiff”) to appear for his deposition and to pay monetary sanctions. Plaintiff was served in pro per. Any opposition was due on or before April 4, 2024; none was filed.   II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION Prior to Plaintiff’s counsel withdrawing from the matter, Defendants unilaterally set the deposition of Plaintiff twice, in which Plaintiff’s counsel at the time objected to the notices. Defense counsel declares that, to date, Plaintiff’s deposition has not been rescheduled.  The Court is unable to proceed on the merits of the motion at this time due to a procedural deficiency. First, Defendants do not provide that they attempted to contact Plaintiff directly, or served deposition notices on Plaintiff in pro per, after his counsel had been relieved from the matter. Second, a motion to compel deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).) Here, Defendants have failed to submit a meet and confer declaration stating that defense counsel contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance pursuant to CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). Defendant only provides the deposition has not moved forward and does not detail what “good faith attempts at rescheduling the deposition” were made, especially after Plaintiff became a self-represented litigant.   III. CONCLUSION The motion is therefore denied. The denial is without prejudice as to Defendants re-filing the motion with the required meet and confer declaration.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 16th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   