 Case Number:  23SMCV04284    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  I This is one of three related lawsuits.  The suits involve what was going to be an
endeavor by Miles and Viridity.  MLG—a
law firm in which Mashian is senior counsel—acted as counsel to draw up various
papers relating to the transaction between Miles and Viridity with Miles as the
client.  Part of the agreement, at least
according to Mashian, was that Viridity would agree to pay the fee for the work
done for Miles, but that Miles would be ultimately responsible for the fee as
well.  That has led to a variety of
suits.  The earliest one filed was MLG v.
Miles.  It alleged was brought by MLG
against Miles and Viridity for non-payment of fees.  It was assigned to Judge Mandel.  In On December 9, 2022, Judge Mandel granted
a motion to quash Miles’ subpoena as to a third party and also ordered that no
further depositions of percipient witness would be taken.  Trial, at the time, was imminent.  According to Mashian, the court did allow the
completion of Mashian’s deposition (which the court assumes had already
started) and also allowed expert discovery, but essentially ruled that all
other discovery was closed.  Miles filed
a complaint against Viridity on July 25, 2023. 
It was brought in Van Nuys but Miles filed a notice of related case
relating it to the case before Judge Mandel. 
On July 28, 2023, the cases were deemed related.  On September 7, 2023, Miles filed a 170.6
challenge to Judge Mandel and the matter was transferred to Department N.  Miles then filed the instant case on
September 12, 2023.  Mashian filed a
notice of related and the cases were again deemed related and were before Judge
Sepe-Weisenfeld in Department N.  Miles
filed a170.6 challenge to Judge Sepe-Weisenfeld and the cases were all
transferred to this court, where they remain. 
 
The suit by Miles against Mashian, which is the case giving
rise to the instant motion, alleges that Mashian committed fraud by not
obtaining informed consent as to the effect of the alleged agreement that
Viridity would pay Miles’ legal fees. 
Mashian demurred to the original complaint and the court sustained the
demurrer with leave to amend. 
Specifically, the court found that Miles had not alleged facts
sufficient to give rise to any inference of materiality, reliance, or damages,
let alone under a heightened pleading standard. 
Miles amended the complaint and has now set forth his theory in more
detail.  His theory, according to the
operative pleading, is that Mashian (or maybe MLG) intended to collect the fee twice:
once from Viridity and once from Miles. 
(Apparently what Mashian failed to disclose was that he was planning to
double-bill illegally, which is not really an informed consent issue, as Miles
originally claimed.)  The support is
Mashian’s deposition where Mashian stated that both Viridity and Miles were in
breach of the agreement because they had not paid the fee.  He also states that a fair reading of MLG’s
operative complaint so discloses.  Miles
has served discovery in this case and asserted that Mashian’s responses are not
sufficient.  That is the motion before
the court.  Mashian has filed a demurrer
to Miles’s amended complaint, which is on calendar for August 12, 2024.
 
The court is somewhat at a loss.   The normal rule is that discovery can be had
even after a demurrer has been sustained. 
And this court follows that rule. 
But not here.  Miles’s theory of
the case is just so implausible and without logical support that the court will
not subject the parties to discovery while its survival is in doubt.  That is especially so given that Judge Mandel
had ordered that discovery be deemed complete in the original case.  While it is true that the other cases were
filed after Judge Mandel’s order, the fact remains that the court cannot help
but be left with the feeling that there is some judge-shopping going on and an
attempt to avoid the force of Judge Mandel’s orders.
 
In any event, the notion that a law firm would file a
complaint the gist of which is that it is suing because it wants to engage in a
felony—which is Miles’s theory of the case—is just not plausible.  A firm would have to be felony stupid to
bring a lawsuit alleging that its damages are that its attempt to commit a
crime (for which counsel could be disbarred) were foiled.  The obvious reading of the complaint and the
deposition is that MLG had two sources of payment of its fee (allegedly):
Viridity and Miles.  If Viridity did not
pay, Miles would owe the fee, at least according to MLG’s theory of the
case.  But there is no reason to believe
that if Viridity did pay the fee, MLG would seek the fee a second time
from Miles.  To be clear, the court is
not so holding—it could be that upon a reading of the demurrer papers (or, more
precisely, the opposition papersw) the court sees more clearly Miles’s theory
of the case and would understand how the theory is plausible and properly
pled.  What the court is saying is that
given the unique facts of this case—or constellation of cases—justice is better
served by seeing if there is anything real to Miles’s complaint before forcing
the parties to march down the discovery road.
 
Until the court is convinced that Miles has a viable theory
of the case (which will or will not occur at the demurrer hearing), the court,
on its own motion STAYS THE INSTANT CASE. 
Accordingly, the discovery motion is CONTINUED to the hearing date on
Mashian’s demurrer, which is currently scheduled for August 12, 2024.  The discovery motion hearing date reserved
for July 26,2024, is VACATED, but the 45 day window to file a discovery motion
is TOLLED because of the court’s stay. 
Unless extended by further order of the court, the stay will expire at
noon on August 12, 2024.  The court notes
that it is not staying the related cases, although it will enforce Judge
Mandel’s December 2022 order.