 Case Number:  23SMCV02045    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiffs
Derik and Chauvaune Johnson (collectively “plaintiffs”) filed this breach of
contract action against defendants John “Jack” Radzinski and Susan Eigenbrodt
(collectively “defendants”).  On January
8, 2024, plaintiffs filed their respective requests for dismissal of the entire
action with prejudice.  Currently before
the court is plaintiffs’ motion to vacate the dismissal.  Defendants oppose.  The court first heard the matter on April 25,
2024, but then continued the matter to today.
Plaintiffs
contend that the dismissal was in error “due to [their] lack of legal expertise
and understanding of proper procedures[.]” 
(Johnson Decl., ¶4.)  “It has long
been established that discretionary relief under section 473(b) is available
for voluntary judgments and dismissals. 
(Zamora, supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 254.)  That is, ‘a party who “consented to the
dismissal to his injury, under a mistake of fact” ’ may be eligible for
discretionary relief.  (Ibid.,
citing Palace Hardware Co. v. Smith (1901) 134 Cal. 381, 384 [voluntary
dismissal entered pursuant to a settlement agreement].)”  (Jackson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals,
Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 166, 174, parallel citations omitted.)  “Under this statute, a court may relieve a
party from a default or default judgment due to ‘mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect’ if the party files an application for relief
within six months from the date of the default. 
(§ 473, subd. (b); Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 36, 47.)  ‘ “Section 473 is
often applied liberally where the party in default moves promptly to seek
relief, and the party opposing the motion will not suffer prejudice if relief
is granted.  [Citations.] In such
situations ‘very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in setting
aside the default.’ [Citations.]  [¶]
Moreover, because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits,
any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief from default . . . .’ ”  (Grappo
v. McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996, 1005.)”  (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13, 28, parallel citations omitted.)  But that said, the mistake cannot be in the
nature of second thoughts.
Plaintiffs’
moving declaration and the opposition indicate that plaintiffs chose to dismiss
the action because they felt that was the proper course of action per their
prayers.  In the moving declaration,
Derik states that plaintiffs chose to dismiss the action because they felt
compelled to give defendants another opportunity to repent by way of
participating in a mediation.  However,
plaintiffs state that defendants then refused to attend mediation and
plaintiffs now want to reinstate the case. 
That is not mistake, excusable neglect, inadvertence, or surprise.  It was plaintiffs’ choice.  Plaintiffs could have gone to mediation and
agreed to dismiss only if a settlement were reached.  Indeed, that is the way of mediation.  A mediation is not a settlement; it is an
effort to get to a settlement.  If the
mediation is unsuccessful, there is no resolution.  The court cannot relieve plaintiffs of their
own choices, even if borne from lack of legal knowledge or ill-placed trust in
the opposition.  The court is sympathetic
to the fact that plaintiffs are self represented, but that does not excuse the
issue.  “[W]e make clear that mere
self-representation is not a ground for exceptionally lenient treatment.”  (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8
Cal.4th 975, 984.)
The
fact that plaintiffs did not understand the legal import of the dismissal is a
mistake of law.  “An ‘honest mistake of
law’ can provide ‘a valid ground for relief,’ at least ‘where a problem is
complex and debatable,’ but relief may be properly denied where the record
shows only ‘ignorance of the law coupled with negligence in ascertaining
it.’  (A & S Air Conditioning v.
John J. Moore Co. (1960) 184 Cal.App.2d 617, 620.)  In considering whether a mistake of law
furnishes grounds for relief, ‘ “the determining factors are the reasonableness
of the misconception and the justifiability of lack of determination of the
correct law.” ’ (Torbitt v. State of California (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d
860, 866, quoting Tammen v. County of San Diego (1967) 66 Cal.2d 468,
476.)”  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens
(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1412–1413, parallel citations omitted.)  And that is the problem here.  A dismissal is not a complex or hard to
understand concept.  And there is no
evidence that the plaintiffs did not know what a dismissal was.  They did not really make a mistake of law
unless one presumes that they sought to dismiss other parties only and
mistakenly dismissed defendants here, which is discussed below.  
To
add a little bit of substance to the above, in an unsigned declaration attached
to the moving papers (after the Johnson declaration), plaintiffs state that
they were misled by defendants, who indicated that the case would be amicably
settled if the case was dismissed, but it was not.  That, actually, is not supported.  There is no reason to believe that defendant
promised to settle; the most that can be gleaned is that defendant promised to
mediate.  A mediation is not a
settlement.  But in any event, the issue
goes to a claim in which plaintiffs suggest extrinsic fraud. “ ‘Extrinsic fraud
occurs when a party is deprived of the opportunity to present his claim or
defense to the court; where he was kept ignorant or, other than from his own
negligence, fraudulently prevented from fully participating in the
proceeding.   [Citation.] Examples of
extrinsic fraud are: concealment of the existence of a community property
asset, failure to give notice of the action to the other party, and convincing
the other party not to obtain counsel because the matter will not proceed (and
then it does proceed).  [Citation.]  The essence of extrinsic fraud is one party's
preventing the other from having his day in court.’  (City and County of San Francisco v.
Cartagena (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1067.)”  (Navarro v. IHOP Properties, Inc.
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 834, 844.)  On the
other hand, “[a]ny fraud is intrinsic if a party has been given notice of the
action and has not been prevented from participating therein, that is, if they
had the opportunity to present their case and to protect themselves from any
mistake or fraud of their adversary, but unreasonably neglected to do so. [¶]
When a claim of fraud goes to an issue involving the merits of the prior
proceeding which the moving party should have guarded against at that time, or
if the moving party was guilty of negligence in failing to prevent the fraud or
mistake or in contributing thereto, or failed to take advantage of liberal
discovery policies to fully investigate their claim, any fraud is intrinsic
fraud.”  (In re Marriage of Stevenot
(1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 1051, 1069.)  That
is the problem here.  Plaintiffs knew of
their claim; indeed, they had sued.  They
were not prevented from pursuing it.  
Further,
the declaration (or this part of it) is not signed.  Further, this unattributed statement
conflicts with Johnson’s signed declaration under penalty of perjury indicating
that he dismissed the case due to his unfamiliarity with legal procedures.  But even putting that to one side and
assuming plaintiff Derik Johnson is the declarant, there is still is no showing
of extrinsic fraud.  What appears to be
an oral promise to mediate is not enough.
The
court also notes that plaintiffs were in communication with counsel for
defendants in this action.  Counsel in
the related case was different.  That
strongly suggests that plaintiffs knew that they were dismissing these
particular defendants.  Thus, to the
extent that the claim was that plaintiffs thought they were only dismissing the
defendants in the related case (which is also a theme of the motion), the
argument lacks merit.
The
real gist, as stated before, was that plaintiffs claim that they thought that
if they dismissed the case, defendants would mediate the case.  While they may have been in error as to
whether defendants would in fact mediate, they were not in error or mistaken in
that they were filing a dismissal against these defendants.  And, of course, an agreement to mediate is
not an agreement to settle.
In
any event, the evidence does not show the kind of mistake that is discussed in
CCP section 473 that would allow the dismissal to be vacated.  Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.