 Case Number:  20STCV39460    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  I The Ex Parte application to stay the deposition is
CONTINUED but the deposition is STAYED pending the hearing; the application for
an OSC is GRANTED.
 
This is a medical malpractice action that had been set for
trial on March 11, 2024.  However, at
defendant’s request, the trial was continued to August 5, 2024, due to a
calendar conflict with lead counsel. 
Because the reason was a conflict, the court did not extend the
discovery cut off dates.  Recently,
defense counsel noticed the deposition of one of the percipient doctors, who
had also been designated as an expert. 
The deposition was set for June 20, 2024, which is after the discovery
cut-off date.  According to plaintiff,
defendants were aware of this witness’s direct involvement in the case long
ago, as he is identified in the medical records.  Further, he was designated as an expert on
January 22, 2024, by plaintiff.  Yet it
appears that no attempt was made to depose him until after the discovery cut
off had come and gone, even for expert discovery.
 
It could be that the parties had reached an agreement on
expert discovery and had stipulated to allow such discovery even after the
discover cut-off.  If that is the case,
the court would be inclined to enforce such an agreement.  But absent such an agreement, the court sees
no basis for the late deposition.  If
defendant had a good reason for the delay, the proper route (absent agreement)
would be to file a motion to re-open discovery. 
No such motion, however, was filed as to this witness.
 
The court is prepared to continue this motion for a short
time to allow defendant to prepare a brief that explains why it is that the
discovery cut-off has not really passed. 
If there is really nothing to be said on that, the court’s preference
would be for counsel to so state and to resolve the matter today.  The court will say that in the absence of
some form of opposition explaining why the discovery cut off for experts was not
keyed to the original trial date notwithstanding the court’s order, the court
would grant the motion.