 Case Number:  23LBCV00310    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Complaint
Plaintiffs, Monet
Duffen, et al. filed this action against Defendant, Matthew Berlign for damages
arising out of an automobile accident.  The
accident occurred on 1/28/21.  Plaintiffs
filed their complaint on 2/17/23.    
 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares the parties met and conferred but were unable
to resolve the issue of whether the statute of limitations bars the
action.  The demurrer is therefore ripe
for determination on its merits.  
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Defendants seek judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ complaint, Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint, and the fact that there is no summons with the FAC.  The RJN is unnecessary.  The Court evaluates the operative complaint and
all documents in the file when evaluating a demurrer.  
 

Statute of Limitations

i.             
Parties’
Positions
Defendant argues the entire complaint is barred by the two-year statute
of limitations.  Plaintiffs argue the
demurrer should be overruled because (a) the complaint was timely filed, (b) the
amended complaint relates back to the original complaint, and (c) the SOL was
equitably tolled.
 
ii.            
Initial
Note
The proof of service of the opposition to the demurrer is unsigned and
undated, and has various blanks not filled in. 
Plaintiffs’ attorney’s inattention to detail is made manifest throughout
the opposition papers.  The Court asks
Counsel to ensure appropriate attention to detail in the future in connection with
this and other matters.
 
iii.           
Timely
Filing
Plaintiffs’ primary contention is that their complaint was timely filed
within two years.  Plaintiffs provide the
declaration of their attorney and various exhibits thereto.  The declaration and exhibits establish that Plaintiffs
first filed their complaint on 1/30/23.  The
Clerk rejected the filing because the address of the intersection and the zip
code in the addendum did not match.  The rejection
was dated 1/30/23 at 2:03 p.m.  The
documents were resubmitted on 2/08/23 at 12:10 p.m. and rejected “per conversation
with attorney’s office” the same day at 2:10 p.m.  The documents were resubmitted the same day
at 4:43 p.m. and were rejected the following motion (2/09/23) at 8:35 a.m.
because the documents were not text-searchable and Steven Johnson was
improperly named in the complaint.  The reject
notice also noted that the type of action on the addendum must match the type
of action on the portal.  The documents
were resubmitted on 2/09/23 at 2:25 p.m. and were rejected on 2/17/23 at 1:33 p.m.,
again because Johnson was improperly named and the type of action on the
addendum did not match the type of action on the portal.  On 2/17/23, Plaintiffs filed their summons,
complaint, and related documents, all of which were accepted for filing.    
 
CRC 1010.6(e)(4)(E) provides, “If the clerk of the court does
not file a complaint or cross complaint because the complaint or cross
complaint does not comply with applicable filing requirements or the required
filing fee has not been paid, any statute of limitations applicable to the causes
of action alleged in the complaint or cross complaint shall be tolled for the
period beginning on the date on which the court received the document and as
shown on the confirmation of receipt described in subparagraph (A), through the
later of either the date on which the clerk of the court sent the notice of
rejection described in subparagraph (C) or the date on which the electronic
filing service provider or electronic filing manager sent the notice of
rejection as described in subparagraph (D), plus one additional day if the
complaint or cross complaint is subsequently submitted in a form that corrects
the errors which caused the document to be rejected. The party filing the
complaint or cross complaint shall not make any change to the complaint or cross
complaint other than those required to correct the errors which caused the
document to be rejected.”
 
Plaintiffs did not act in a way
that tolled the statute of limitations per the Rules of Court.  This is so for two reasons.  First, this is so because the statute was
only tolled if Plaintiffs corrected the defect listed in the rejection.  Plaintiffs were instructed more than once that
Johnson should not be named and that the type of action in the portal had to
match the type of action in the addendum. 
Additionally, this is so because Plaintiffs were required to re-submit
the next day.  The first rejection of the
documents was on 1/30/23, but Plaintiffs did not attempt to re-file until
2/08/23.  
 
iv.           
Relation Back
Plaintiffs’ second argument is that
the action relates back to the filing of the original complaint, which was
filed on 1/30/23.  The problem with this argument
is that, as detailed above, the original complaint was NOT filed on
1/30/23.  It was submitted on 1/30/23 and
was rejected, and the defects were not timely cured.  This argument therefore also fails.
 
v.            
Equitable Tolling
Plaintiffs’ final argument is that the statute of limitations was equitable
tolled.  Specifically, Plaintiffs contend
they had been working with Defendant’s insurance carrier, Progressive, which
had accepted liability for the accident and was negotiating Plaintiffs’
claim.  
 
"California applies equitable tolling if before a plaintiff filed
a case the plaintiff gave the defendant timely notice of the claim through a
prior civil action, through an administrative proceeding, or through a
grievance procedure.”  Addison v. State
of California (1979) 21 Cal.3d 313; Elkins v. Cere (1974) 12 Cal.3d 410, 414;
McDonald v. Antelope Valle Community College Dist. (2008) 45 Cal.4th 88,
111-112.  The three elements of
equitable tolling are (a) timely notice, (b) lack of prejudice, and (c) reasonableness
and good faith.  Addison at 319.  
 
In Collier v. City of Pasadena
(1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 917, 924, the Court held:
The timely notice requirement
essentially means that the first claim must have been filed within the
statutory period. Furthermore the filing of the first claim must alert the defendant
in the second claim of the need to begin investigating the facts which form the
basis for the second claim. Generally this means that the defendant in the
first claim is the same one being sued in the second. As an example, a workers'
compensation claim equitably tolls a personal injury action against that same
employer for injuries sustained in the same incident. But under ordinary
circumstances that workers' compensation claim would not equitably toll a
personal injury action against a third party who might also be liable for the
injury. (Freeman v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473 [121
Cal.Rptr. 477, 535 P.2d 341]; but see Tu-Vu Drive-In Corp. v. Davies, supra, 66
Cal.2d 435 where a claim against a third party tolled the statute of
limitations against an attorney defendant in a wrongful execution case.)
 
Plaintiffs herein did not file any
prior lawsuit against Defendant.  They pursued
an insurance claim with Defendant’s insurer. 
Plaintiffs fail to cite any authority applying the doctrine of equitable
estoppel under such circumstances.  Absent
such authority, the Court is not inclined to extend the doctrine to
circumstances where an insurance claim is pending but no timely lawsuit has
been filed.  
 
vi.           
Conclusion
The demurrer is sustained on the ground that the statute of limitations
bars the action.  Because this is a
purely legal issue, leave to amend is denied. 

 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Defendant’s motion to strike is moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer.  
 
4.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion
to strike.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing.  
 