  Case Number:  19LBCV00551    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 On 6/30/23, Defendants, and all of them, filed a motion for judgment on
the pleadings directed at Plaintiff’s complaint.  Specifically, Defendants, by way of the
motion, seek judgment on the pleadings on the first cause of action.  On 8/22/23, the Court heard and granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend. 
On 8/24/23, Plaintiff filed its operative First Amended Complaint.
 
On 9/26/23, Defendants, and each of them, filed a demurrer to the
FAC.  The demurrer attacks the first
cause of action, which remains unchanged from the original complaint.  It also attacks the third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action in the amended complaint.  The hearing on the demurrer is scheduled for
2/08/24, slightly more than a week after the hearing on this MJP.
 
The Court notes that, in its 8/16/23 ruling on the motion to amend, it
stated that it could and would rule on the pending motion for judgment on the
pleadings despite its ruling on the motion to amend.  That was, however, before Defendants filed a
demurrer to the FAC, which demurrer advances substantially the same arguments
advanced in connection with the motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
The Court finds it is in the interest of justice to take the MJP off
calendar and to hear all pleading challenges when it hears and rules on the
demurrer on 2/08/24.  The Court therefore
takes the MJP off calendar at this time. 

 
Defendants are ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 