 Case Number:  22LBCV01066    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.            
Facts
Plaintiff, Mary Wilson filed this
action against Defendant, Rodger Wilson for damages arising out of a partnership
agreement the parties signed during the course of their divorce
proceedings.  The operative complaint is
the FAC, which was filed on 2/09/23.  It includes
causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, elder abuse, breach of contract,
conversion, unjust enrichment, accounting, constructive trust, and violation of
Penal Code §496(c).
 
2.            
Motions to Compel
Plaintiff filed motions to compel
further responses to FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs on 10/03/23, setting them for
hearing on 1/30/24.  On 1/17/24, Defendant
filed timely opposition to the motions.  Defendant,
in opposition, provides evidence that he has provided supplemental responses to
all outstanding discovery after meeting and conferring with Plaintiff, such
that the motions are now moot.  
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 1/23/24.  The Court has not
received timely reply papers and will not consider late-filed reply
papers.  The Court finds the motions are substantively
moot.  
 
The only outstanding issue is
imposition of sanctions.  Plaintiff seeks
imposition of sanctions in the amounts of $3210 (FROGs), $2760 (RPDs), and
$4560 (SROGs).  
 
Each of Plaintiff’s attorney’s meet
and confer declarations avers that Counsel sent a meet and confer letter on
9/13/23.  While the declarations are silent
on this issue, the notice of motion indicates Defendant failed to respond to
the attempt to meet and confer.  Notably,
Defense Counsel’s declaration in opposition to the motion is silent concerning
any attempt to meet and confer between 9/13/23 and the filing of the motions,
on 10/03/23.  Defense Counsel declares he
commenced meeting and conferring “following the filing of the within Motion.”  It was the obligation of Defense Counsel to
meet and confer BEFORE the motions were filed, so as to avoid the need for the filing
of the motions.  That said, Plaintiff’s
meet and confer letter merely proposed further responses by 9/18/23 and
documents by 10/01/23, and did not propose any further communication or
attempts to meet and confer, and there was apparently no attempt to follow up
prior to filing the motions.  
 
On balance, the Court finds both
parties could have engaged in more extensive meet and confer efforts in order
to avoid the need for the filing of the motions.  In light of the lack of reply papers, the
Court is inclined not to impose sanctions at this time.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   