  Case Number:  23VECV05230    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Leslie Klinger,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Leslie Klinger v. Horizons Senior Apts/Cirrus Asset Management,
 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
     23VECV05230               107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
(1)
  Demurrer                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants 26075 Malibu Hills Road LLC (erroneously sued as
Horizons Senior Apts), Cirrus Asset Management, Inc., Cynthia Gutierrez, and
Greg Meyers demur to the first amended complaint brought by Plaintiff Leslie
Klinger (“Plaintiff”).
 
This court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Horizons Senior Apts and Cirrus Asset Management alleging a
single “Intentional Tort” cause of action. (Complaint p. 3.) 
 
On June 6, 2024, Defendants 26705 Malibu
Hills Road LLC (erroneously sued as Horizons Senior Apts) (hereinafter referred
to as “Malibu Hills”) and Cirrus Management, Inc. demurred to Plaintiff’s
complaint. (Demurrer filed 06/6/24.) This court sustained the demurrer with
leave to amend. (07/15/24 Minute Order.) 
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint
on August 8, 2024. (First Amended Complaint, “FAC” p. 1.) Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint added Defendants Gary Fidler, Debbie Lush, Grey Meyers, Steve
Heimler, Shirin Shojapour, Elliot Hakazedah, Manisha K. Bajaj, and Cynthia
Gutierrez. (FAC p. 2.) The first amended complaint also added causes of action
for general negligence, premises liability, breach of contract, and fraud. (FAC
pp. 4-16.) The first amended complaint also mentions various other causes of
action including breach of implied warranty of habitability, libel, harassment,
intimidation, conspiracy, false business documents, extortion, and perjury. (FAC
pp. 6, 18, 32.)
 
Defendants Malibu Hills, Cirrus Asset Management, Inc., Cynthia
Gutierrez, and Greg Meyers (“Defendants”) demurred to Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint on September 11, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 7,
2024.
 
II.            
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Timeliness
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005,
subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before
they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine
court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be
filed at least five court days before the set hearing. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer was filed on September 11, 2024, which
is more than sixteen court days before the set hearing. Plaintiff’s opposition
was filed on October 7, 2024. Plaintiff also filed a declaration and
“[a]dditional papers in opposition to [d]emurrer and motion to strike” on
October 9, 2024. 
 
This hearing is set for October 16, 2024. Nine court days
before October 16, 2024, is October 3, 2024. Additionally, the court finds that
the Plaintiff has had ample time to file an opposition but instead chose to
spend her time on other, less time sensitive matters, and that requests for
continuances were an attempt to further delay matters and not out of necessity.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s opposition and other filings are untimely, and this
court will not consider them. 
 
B.   
The
Meet & Confer Requirement¿ 
¿ 
California
Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and
confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally
resolve the objections raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required
to file and serve with the demurrer a declaration either confirming that
parties were unable to resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having
met and conferred or that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the
demurring party in good faith. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿
 
Defendants’ counsel submits a declaration stating he
sent Plaintiff meet and confer letters on August 22, 2024, and August 28, 2024,
and submits copies of the meet and confer letters. (Rustin Declaration ¶ 5; Ex. A; Ex. B.) 
 
Accordingly, this court finds the meet and confer requirement has
been satisfied.
¿ 
III.          
DEMURRER
- LEGAL STANDARD 
¿¿ 
As a general
matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard,
a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.)¿
 
IV.          
DEMURRER
- DISCUSSION 
 
A.   
Additional Defendants
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s first amended complaint improperly adds
defendants. (Demurrer p. 15.) 
 
When the trial court grants leave to amend after a demurrer, such
leave to amend does not entitle a party to add new parties. (People By and
Through Dept. of Public Works v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785.)
 
Plaintiff’s first complaint was against Defendants Malibu Hills and
Cirrus Asset Management. (Complaint p. 1.) Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
adds Defendants Gary Fidler, Debbie Lush, Grey Meyers, Steve Heimler, Shirin
Shojapour, Elliot Hakakzedah, Manisha K. Bajaj, and Cynthia Gutierrez. (FAC p.
2.)
 
Plaintiff has not obtained leave of court to add new parties.  Accordingly, this court finds that Plaintiff
was not entitled to add defendants to the first amended complaint and sustains
the demurrer on that ground.
 
B.   
Premises Liability,
Negligence, Breach of Contract, Fraud and Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s first amended complaint improperly
asserts causes of action after this court sustained the demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint. (Demurrer p. 5.) 
 
“Following an order sustaining a demurrer . . . with leave to amend,
the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court’s
order. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018,
1023.) “The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action
without obtaining permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within
the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleged a single intentional tort cause of
action. (Complaint p. 5.) On July 15, 2024, this court sustained the demurrer to
Plaintiff’s complaint and granted Plaintiff leave to amend. (07/15/24 Minute
Order.) In its ruling, this court stated that “it is unclear which intentional
tort or how many intentional torts Plaintiff pleads in the Complaint.”
(07/15/24 Minute Order.) Accordingly, this court only granted Plaintiff leave
to amend and clarify Plaintiff’s intentional tort cause of action. This court
did not grant Plaintiff leave to add additional causes of action.
 
A cause of action for negligence is not an intentional tort. Further,
premises liability is a form of negligence. (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Mgmt.
Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.)  Breach of contract is not a tort. (See Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 550 [“The distinction between tort and
contract is well grounded in common law, and divergent objectives underlie the
remedies created in the two areas.”]) And the elements of breach of implied
warranty of habitability do not require Plaintiff to prove intent. (McNairy v. C.K. Realty (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 1500, 1502.) In contrast, fraud is an intentional
tort. (Shafer v. Berger, Kahn Shafton, Moss, Figler, Simon & Gladstone
et al., (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 54, 74.) 
 
Accordingly, because they are not intentional torts, and are
therefore outside the scope of this court’s July 15, 2024, order, Plaintiff was
not permitted to add causes of action for negligence, premises liability,
breach of contract, or implied warranty of habitability. But because fraud is
an intentional tort, Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud was within the scope
of this court’s order and Plaintiff was permitted to add a cause of action for
fraud.
 
C.   
Fraud
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s first amended complaint does not allege
the necessary facts for a fraud cause of action. (Demurrer p. 12.)
 
The elements of fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of
falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting
damage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.) Fraud
elements must be alleged with particularity. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint states that Malibu Hills sent
“deceptive emails,” Malibu Hills’ lawyer sent a deceptive letter, and Malibu
Hills filed a false unlawful detainer. (FAC pp. 19-21, Nos.  12, 15, 21.) But fraud must be plead with
particularity, and Plaintiff does not identify what was deceptive or false
about the emails, letter, or unlawful detainer, and she does not identify what
Malibu Hills misrepresented. Similarly, Plaintiff alleges a “deceptive 30-Day
Notice to raise rent.” (FAC p. 17, No. 2.) But Plaintiff does not identify who
sent the notice or how it was deceptive. Further, although Plaintiff alleges “Defendant
made the representations with the intent to defraud and induce plaintiff to act
as described” Plaintiff has not alleged justifiable reliance or resulting
damages caused by the fraud. (Complaint p. 14.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged facts supporting
a cause of action for fraud.
 
D.   
Intentional Tort
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s first amended complaint is insufficient
to constitute a cause of action for intentional tort. (Demurrer pp. 5, 12.) 
 
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint alleges a cause of action for
“intentional tort.” (FAC p. 6.) Plaintiff states that the reasons for liability
are “Generally, Harassment, Intimidation, Breach of Contract, Warranty of
Habitability, Conspiracy, False Business Documents, and Extortion.” (FAC p. 6.)
 
As noted above, breach of contract and implied warranty of
habitability are not intentional torts, so Plaintiff was not permitted to add
those causes of action. Accordingly, this court does not consider them
further.
 
i.      
Harassment
 
Harassment consists of “unlawful violence, a credible threat of
violence, or a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at a specific
person that seriously alarms, annoys, or harasses the person, and that serves
no legitimate purpose.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 527.6.) The course of conduct
must be that which would cause a reasonable person to suffer substantial
emotional distress and must actually cause petitioner to suffer substantial
emotional distress. (Code Civ. Proc., § 527.6(b)(3).)
A “Course of conduct” is defined as “a pattern of conduct composed of a serious
of acts over a period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity of
purpose, including following or stalking an individual, making harassing
telephone calls to an individual, or sending harassing correspondence to an
individual by any means, including, but not limited to, the use of public or
private mails, interoffice mail, facsimile, or email.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 527.6(b)(1).) 
 
Plaintiff alleges there were harassing, intimidating, and
threatening emails and letters and implies the emails and letters were sent by
Defendants’ employees and their attorneys. (FAC pp. 17-21, Nos. 5, 12, 15,
23-24, 28.) Plaintiff also alleges Horizons at Calabasas’s manager “threatened
Carol Klinger and Leslie Klinger’s housing based on Plaintiff’s disability.”
(FAC p. 18, No. 9.) These allegations do not show Defendants committed unlawful
violence, a threat of credible violence, or a knowing and willful course of
harassing conduct.
 
Plaintiff further alleges “[v]erbal [h]arassment, called
‘Bitch’, [l]oud aggression yelling in garage, [d]isrupting peaceful enjoyment
with no notice and moving property without permission, stalking and videoing in
garage.” (FAC p. 17, Nos. 3-4.) Plaintiff has not alleged who committed these
acts or that these acts were directed at Plaintiff. And Plaintiff has not
alleged these acts were part of a course of harassing conduct committed by
Defendants. Moreover, Plaintiff has not alleged a course of conduct that would
cause a reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional distress. And,
Plaintiff has not alleged that Plaintiff suffered substantial emotional
distress.
 
Finally, the remedy for a harassment claim under section 527.6
is a temporary restraining order prohibiting harassment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 527.6(a)(1).) But Plaintiff does not seek injunctive
relief in her first amended complaint. (FAC p. 4.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to
support a harassment cause of action.
 
ii.    
Extortion
 
The elements of extortion are: (1) Defendants’ wrongful attempts
to extort money; and (2) resulting damages to Plaintiff. (Fuhrman v. Cal. Satellite Sys. (1986)
179 Cal.App.3d 408, 426, 432.) Extortion is “essentially a cause of action for
moneys obtained by duress, a form of fraud.” (Id. at p. 426.) “To be
actionable the threat of prosecution must be made with the knowledge of the
falsity of the claim.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges “[e]xtortion, around April, May, 2017, through potentially, pandemic
and present.” (FAC No. 22.) Plaintiff also appears to allege that emails and
letters support the extortion cause of action. (FAC Nos. 22-23.) But Plaintiff
does not identify the contents of the emails and letters or otherwise show how
Defendants used the letters and emails to make wrongful attempts to extort
money from Plaintiff. Finally, Plaintiff has not alleged resulting damages.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to
support an extortion cause of action.
 
iii.  
Conspiracy 
 
The
elements of conspiracy are: (1) Defendants’ agreement to the objective and
course of action to injure; (2) wrongful act pursuant to such agreement; and
(3) resulting damage. (Berg & Berg
Ent., LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 802, 823.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges Defendants have committed conspiracy by retaliating against Plaintiff,
by demanding changes to the contract, and for asking for more money. (FAC p.
25.) But Plaintiff does not allege Defendants agreed to an objective and a course
of action to injure Plaintiff.  Further,
although Plaintiff alleges Defendants sent threatening and intimidating emails
and letters, as noted above, Plaintiff has not alleged what was in the letters
and emails or how they show Defendants agreed to an objective and course of
action to injure or that Defendants committed a wrongful act pursuant to such
an agreement. (FAC pp. 17-21, Nos. 5, 12, 15, 23-24,
28.)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to support a conspiracy cause of
action.
 
iv.  
False Business Documents
 
Plaintiff
also alleges an intentional tort based on “false business documents.” This
court finds no legal authority for this cause of action and Plaintiff cites
none.
 
E.   
Uncertainty
 
“[A] plaintiff is required . . . to set forth the essential facts of
[their] case with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to
acquaint a defendant with the nature, source, and extent of [their] cause of
action.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 544.)
 
Defendants
argue all of Plaintiff’s causes of action fail because they are uncertain. This
court agrees.
 
To state a cause of action for any of the torts listed in the first
amended complaint, Plaintiff must state facts alleging each of the elements of
the cause of action for the tort. Plaintiff’s first amended complaint contains
sixteen pages of alleged facts. (FAC pp. 17-32.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint contains more alleged facts than the original complaint. But many
of the facts alleged in the first amended complaint are so vague and unclear
that the nature, source, and extent of the claims being brought against
Defendants cannot be understood.  For
example, Plaintiff does not state when various alleged events occurred. (See
FAC Nos. 23-29.) So, neither this court, nor Defendants, can evaluate whether
Plaintiff’s allegations are barred by the applicable statutes of limitations. Further,
Plaintiff does not clearly state which Defendant committed the alleged acts or
how the alleged facts support Plaintiff’s causes of action. (See e.g., FAC Nos.
4, 24.) Similarly, Plaintiff’s allegations list Defendants at the end of each
paragraph, but Plaintiff has not shown which allegations are tied to which
Defendants. (See e.g., FAC p. 24, Nos. 4-5.) 
 
Accordingly, this court finds that Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint is uncertain. 
 
V.             
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to amend the
complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally allowed as a
matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it is incapable
of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th
730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after
sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303-304.)¿ 
 
Although Plaintiff has filed an amended complaint,
this court finds that there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment
and grants Plaintiff leave to amend. 
 
VI.          
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Defendants state that the demurrer is filed with a motion to strike. No
motion to strike is attached to Defendants’ filings. Accordingly, there is no
motion to strike for this court to consider.
 
VII.        
CONCLUSION
 
This court sustains the demurrer and grants Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
 
Dated:              October 15, 2024          
                                                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon.
Eric Harmon
                                                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court