  Case Number:  23VECV05269    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Angela Xifaras,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 Cal Pacific Medical Aesthetics, et al.,
          Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
   23VECV05269     107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: 
 
Motion to Compel
  Arbitration



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
 
 
Defendant Cal
Pacific Medical Aesthetics moves to compel arbitration of the claims brought by
plaintiff Angela Xifaras. This court denies the motion.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On May 24, 2022,
plaintiff Angela Xifaras (“Plaintiff”) underwent a cosmetic surgery performed
by defendant James Hartleroad, M.D. (“Dr. Hartleroad”) at defendant Cal Pacific
Medical Aesthetics (“Defendant” and, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) to inject
a substance called Bellafill into her buttocks. (Complaint ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
alleges that because Dr. Hartleroad instead injected silicone, she “suffered
issues with discoloration, deformity, and pain” and had to undergo subsequent
procedures to remove the silicone. (Ibid.) 
 
The same day,
Plaintiff executed an arbitration agreement (the “Agreement”). (Hartleroad
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) 
 
On November 27,
2023, Plaintiff initiated this action by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) battery, (2) negligent hiring, training,
supervision, and retention, (3) medical battery, (4) intentional
misrepresentation, (5) negligent misrepresentation, (6) fraudulent concealment,
(7) medical malpractice, (8) lack of informed consent, (9) violation of
Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq., and (10) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.
 
On April 16, 2024,
Defendant filed a motion (the “Motion”) to compel arbitration. On April 29,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion, to which
Defendant replied on July 10, 2024.
 
II. EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant objects
to the Xifaras Declaration (as defined below) and the declaration by
Plaintiff’s counsel (the “Hemesath Declaration”), both of which Plaintiff
submits with the Opposition. (Objections p. 2.)
 

Defendant’s
     Objections to the Xifaras Declaration

 
1.     
Objection
No. 1 is overruled.
 
2.     
Objection
No. 2 is overruled
 
3.     
Objection
No. 3 is overruled.
 
4.     
Objection
No. 4 sustained as to the first sentence only on the grounds that the declarant
lacks personal knowledge and that the statement is speculative. It is overruled
as to the second sentence.
 
5.     
Objection
No. 5 is overruled.
 
6.     
Objection
No. 6 is overruled.
 
7.     
Objection
No. 7 is overruled.
 

Defendant’s
     Objections to the Hemesath Declaration

 
1.     
Objection
No. 1 is overruled.
 
2.     
Objection
No. 2 is overruled.
 
3.     
Objection
No. 3 is overruled.
 
4.     
Objection
No. 4 is sustained on the grounds that the declarant lacks personal knowledge.
 
III. THE
ARBIRATION AGREEMENT
 
Defendant submits
with the Motion a declaration by Dr. Hartleroad (the “Hartleroad Declaration”),
which certifies and attaches a copy of the Agreement. The Agreement is one of
11 total pages of documents and agreements attached to the Hartleroad Declaration.
(Hartleroad Decl. Exh. 1.)
 
Article 1 of the
Agreement provides, in relevant part, that “any dispute as to medical
malpractice, that is as to whether any medical or dental services rendered
under this contract were unauthorized or improperly, negligently or
incompetently rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration.”
(Hartleroad Decl. Exh. 1.)
 
Article 2 of the
Agreement provides, “It is the intention of the parties that this agreement
shall cover all existing or subsequent claims or controversies whether in tort,
contract or otherwise, and shall bind all parties whose claims may rise out of
or in any way relate to treatment or services provided by [Your Spa Name Here]
to a patient.” (Hartleroad Decl. Exh. 1.)
 
A few lines above
the signature line, the Agreement additionally provides, “NOTICE: BY SIGNING
THIS CONTRACT YOU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY ISSUE Of MALPRACTICE DECIDED BY
NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AND YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR RIGHT TO JURY OR COURT TRIAL.
(Refer to Article 1 of California Code of Civil Procedure sect 1295).”
(Hartleroad Decl. Exh. 1.)
 
The Agreement is
signed and dated by only Plaintiff. (Hartleroad Decl. Exh. 1.)
 
The Agreement does
not provide for a division of payment for arbitration. (Hartleroad Decl. Exh.
1.)
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract. (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the
party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there should be no
enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to
reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio v. WMA
Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) “In determining whether
an¿arbitration¿agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine
only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party
refusing¿arbitration.” (Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350,
353.)¿¿ 
¿ 
This court is empowered by California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an
agreement to do so. “The court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿1281.2.) Thus, “Section 1281.2
requires a court to order arbitration if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836, 841.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general
rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance
that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) Notwithstanding that strong policy, the United
States Supreme Court has held, “[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a
party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not
agreed so to submit.” (AT & T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications
Workers of America (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648.)
 
The hearing and determination of a petition to compel
arbitration “in the manner and upon the notice provided by law for the hearing
of motions” generally means that “the facts are to be proven by affidavit or
declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken only in the
court's discretion.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57
Cal.4th 1109, 1157.)
 

This Court’s
     Authority to Decide Threshold Issues

 
Defendant argues
that “a question of validity of contract and/or arbitration agreement is one
for the arbitrator and not the local court.” (Motion p. 7.)
 
The trial court
typically decides the threshold issues of enforceability of the arbitration
agreement and the scope of issues to be arbitrated. (Aanderud v. Superior
Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891.) “However, parties can agree to
arbitrate ‘gateway’ questions of ‘arbitrability,’ such as whether the parties
have agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular
controversy.” (Ibid.) “There are two prerequisites for a delegation
clause to be effective. First, the language of the clause must be clear and
unmistakable. Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract
defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. The ‘clear and
unmistakable’ test reflects a ‘heightened standard of proof’
that reverses the typical presumption in favor of the arbitration of disputes.
(Id. at 892, internal citations omitted, emphasis original.) When “the
question is simply whether plaintiff entered at all into the arbitration
agreement of which the delegation clause is a part,” the “initial
determination” of whether an arbitration agreement exists is “one for the
court, not the arbitrator.” (Theresa D. v. MBK Senior Living LLC (2021)
73 Cal.App.5th 18, 27.)
 
Plaintiff
challenges the enforceability of the Agreement in this action, and disputes
that any arbitration agreement exists that may be enforced against her in this
action. (Opposition pp. 3–4.) Thus, following Theresa D. v. MBK Senior
Living LLC, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th 18 at 27, the initial
determination of whether the Agreement may be enforced in this action is one
that may be determined by this court, rather than by the arbitrator. 
 
Moreover, the
Agreement does not contain any provisions delegating the role of determining
the “abritrability” of Plaintiff’s claims to an arbitrator. In the absence of
such a delegation provision, following Aanderud v. Superior Court,
supra, 13 Cal.App.5th 880 at 891, the court should typically decide whether the
Agreement may be enforced in a particular action, and so this court may do so.
 

Existence of
     an Agreement to Arbitrate

 
“In California,
general principles of contract law determine whether the parties have entered a
binding agreement to arbitrate.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
1.     
Plaintiff’s Signature on the Agreement
 
Defendant contends
that because the authenticity of Plaintiff’s signature on the Agreement is not
disputed, Plaintiff must be compelled to arbitrate her claims. (Reply pp. 3–4.)
Defendant cites Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747,
756–59 as a “very similar” case. (Id. at p. 3.)
 
Plaintiff
declares, “[a]mong the many documents I signed was the agreement that
Defendants are claiming requires this case to be arbitrated. I do not recall
signing the agreement nor any discussion about this agreement.” (Xifaras Decl.
¶ 3.)
 
We agree with
Defendant that the facts of this case are similar to those of Iyere v. Wise
Auto Group, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th 747 at 756–59 in regard to the
authenticity of the signature on the arbitration agreement at issue. Like in Iyere
v. Wise Auto Group, supra, at 756–59, Plaintiff here does not deny
having signed the Agreement. In fact, she admits to having signed it among the
other documents she signed. (Xifaras Decl. ¶ 3.) In light of such
admission, that she does not recall signing the Agreement does
not contradict the evidence that Defendant has brought that she did sign it.
Thus, Defendant has brought evidence that the Agreement was signed by
Plaintiff, which she does not dispute. This court consequently, in making its
findings and its ruling on the Motion, does not rely on the assumption that the
authenticity of Plaintiff’s signature is disputed or on Plaintiff’s declaration
that she does not recall signing the Agreement.
 
2.     
Fraud in the Inducement
 
“Claims that, due
to fraud in the execution of the agreement as a whole,
the parties reached no contract containing
an arbitration clause, are [] to be decided by the court.” (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th 394, at
419.)
 
“Fraud in
the inducement [] occurs when the promisor knows what he is signing but
his consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a
contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable.” (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th 394, at
415, emphasis removed.) “Fraud in the inducement is a subset of
the tort of fraud.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance;
(d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff contends
that Defendant has failed to meet its burden of showing “the existence of a
contract and compliance with all laws applicable to any such contract.”
(Opposition p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that she consented to contract only to the
injection of Bellafill into her buttocks and since this action arises out of
the injection of silicone into her buttocks, she never consented to any
contract applicable to this action. (Id. at p. 4.) Plaintiff additionally
argues that the Agreement is invalid because Plaintiff was fraudulently induced
to enter it by Dr. Hartleroad’s misrepresentations that he would inject
Bellafill and not silicone into Plaintiff’s buttocks. (Ibid.) 
 
We find that this
action arises, however, from the same medical procedure that the Agreement and
accompanying documents and agreements were intended to govern. And, although
Plaintiff contends that it is Defendants’ burden to show that the arbitration
agreement is valid because Plaintiff’s consent thereto was not induced through
fraud, following Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra,
14 Cal.4th 394, at 419, this burden belongs to Plaintiff. Plaintiff has made no
showing that Defendants knew that their misrepresentations about the substance
to be injected into her buttocks were false, and therefore, Plaintiff has
failed to allege all the elements for fraud in the inducement. We therefore
find that Plaintiff has failed to meet her burden of showing that Plaintiff’s
consent was induced through fraud.
 
3.     
The Agreement’s Identification of Defendants
 
Plaintiff
additionally argues that the Agreement is invalid because its text does not
identify Defendants as party to the Agreement. (Opposition p. 5.) She
emphasizes that Article 2 of the Agreement, which defines the scope of the
Agreement, fails to name either Defendant or Dr. Hartlroad. (Ibid.) This court
additionally observes that both Article 1 and the warning a few lines above the
signature line refer only to claims of medical malpractice being subject to
arbitration, and that the Agreement is not signed by Defendants. (Hartleroad
Decl. Exh. 1.)
 
Neither Party
disputes that the Agreement and the accompanying ten pages of documents and
agreements together constitute a single contract. We agree with Plaintiff that
because Article 2 of the Agreement fails to name Defendants, it does not
broaden the scope of the Agreement’s arbitration mandate to cover “all existing
or subsequent claims or controversies… that rise out of or in any way relate to
treatment or services provided by” Defendants. Article 2 therefore does not
broaden the scope of the Agreement’s arbitration mandate to cover any of the
claims brought in this action. However, Article 1 mandates that “any dispute as
to medical malpractice, that is as to whether any medical or dental services
rendered under this contract were unauthorized or improperly, negligently or
incompetently rendered” be “determined by submission to arbitration and not by
a lawsuit or resort to court process.” Because we found above that Plaintiff’s
claims in this action arise from the same medical procedure that the Agreement
and its accompanying documents and agreements govern, we find that Article 1
applies to Plaintiff’s claims to the extent they fall within Article 1’s scope.
 
This court finds
that the Agreement therefore governs only Plaintiff’s claims of medical
malpractice, as it is defined in Article 1 of the Agreement, and no other
claims brought in this action. We consequently find that the Agreement, to the
extent that it is enforceable, governs Plaintiffs seventh cause of action for
medical malpractice and her eighth cause of action for lack of informed
consent. However, we fail to find that an agreement to arbitrate that governs
Plaintiff’s remaining eighth causes of action in this action exists.
 

Code of Civil
     Procedure section 1295, subdivision (a)

 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1295, subdivision (a) provides, 
 
Any contract for
medical services which contains a provision for arbitration of any dispute as
to professional negligence of a health care provider shall have such provision
as the first article of the contract and shall be expressed in the following
language: “It is understood that any dispute as to medical malpractice, that is
as to whether any medical services rendered under this contract were
unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or incompetently
rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration as provided by
California law, and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process except as
California law provides for judicial review of arbitration proceedings. Both
parties to this contract, by entering into it, are giving up their
constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law before
a jury, and instead are accepting the use of arbitration.”
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1295, subdivision (b) provides, 
 
Immediately before
the signature line provided for the individual contracting for the medical
services must appear the following in at least 10-point bold red type:
 
“NOTICE: BY
SIGNING THIS CONTRACT YOU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY ISSUE OF MEDICAL MALPRACTICE
DECIDED BY NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AND YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR RIGHT TO A JURY OR
COURT TRIAL. SEE ARTICLE 1 OF THIS CONTRACT.”
 
“Under section
1295, arbitration of… professional negligence claims may not be compelled if
the requirements of that section are not met.” (Herbert v. Superior Court
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 718, 727.)
 
The certain
warnings mandated by Code of Civil Procedure section 1295, subdivisions (a) and
(b) differ from the language in the Agreement. The Agreement omits Section
1295’s references to California law and misstates the warning above the
signature line’s reference to Article 1. (Hartleroad Decl. Exh. 1.) We
therefore find that the Agreement does not comply with Section 1295’s
requirements. Consequently, following Herbert v. Superior Court, supra,
169 Cal.App.3d 718 at 727, arbitration of professional negligence claims may
not be compelled pursuant to the Agreement.
 

Unconscionability

 
The doctrine of
unconscionability applies to arbitration agreements. (Peng v. First Republic
Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Civil Code section 1670.5,
subdivision (a) provides, “If the court as a matter of law finds the
contract or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time
it was made the court may refuse to enforce the contract.” 
 
“Unconscionability
has both a ‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element, the former focusing on
‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results. The prevailing view is that procedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present
in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract
or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present
in the same degree. The more substantively oppressive the contract term, the
less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Peng v. First
Republic Bank, supra, at 1469, internal citations omitted, emphasis
original.) “Ordinary contracts of adhesion, although they are
indispensable facts of modern life that are generally enforced, contain a
degree of procedural unconscionability.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) “[W]here a consumer enters into an adhesive
contract that mandates arbitration, it is unconscionable to condition that
process on the consumer posting fees he or she cannot pay.” (Gutierrez v.
Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, 89.) Additionally, “arbitral
costs may be unconscionable for other reasons.” (Id. at 89, fn. 9.) 
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 1295, subdivision (e), “[a]ny contract for medical services which
contains a provision for arbitration of any dispute as to professional
negligence of a health care provider” is “not a contract of adhesion, nor
unconscionable nor otherwise improper” where, inter alia, it contains
the certain language, which warns the signer that they are signing an
arbitration agreement, contained in subdivisions (a) and (b) of the same code
section.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1284.2 provides, in relevant part, “Unless the arbitration
agreement otherwise provides or the parties to the arbitration otherwise agree,
each party to the arbitration shall pay his pro rata share of the expenses and
fees of the neutral arbitrator.”
 
Plaintiff contends
that the Agreement is unenforceable because it is unconscionable. (Opposition
p. 5.) She argues that the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it
is an adhesion contract “presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis” and because
Plaintiff was induced to enter the Agreement by Defendants’ fraudulent
misrepresentations. (Ibid.) And, she argues that the Agreement is substantively
unconscionable because “it likely imposes such a financial burden on Plaintiff
that it leads to the very real possibility that Plaintiff may be deprived of
any forum to resolve her claims.” (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff submits
with the Opposition a declaration (the “Xifaras Declaration”), which she signs
under penalty of perjury, that states, “On or about May 24, 2022, before I
received injections to my buttocks by staff at [Defendant], I was presented
with forms to sign. Among the many documents I signed was the agreement that
Defendants are claiming requires this case to be arbitrated. I do not recall
signing the agreement nor any discussion about this agreement. I was not told
that the agreement was optional, and I was not told I could have the agreement
reviewed by an attorney or that I could propose any changes whatsoever to the
agreement.” (Xifaras Decl. ¶ 3.) The Xifaras Declaration also states, “I
do not have the available funds to pay for such an arbitration”; “On average, I
earn approximately $3000 monthly and my monthly living expenses consume this
income”; and “I have no other ‘assets or property’ such as retirement accounts,
investment accounts, or stocks or bonds.” (Xifaras Decl. ¶¶ 4–6.)
 
Defendants argue
that “[b]ased on Plaintiff’s financial stance and her ability to pay expensive
aesthetic treatments, the cost of arbitration should be shared equally between
the Plaintiff and the Defendants, ensuring that neither party is unduly burdened
by the financial implications of accessing dispute resolution mechanisms, which
is particularly important in the context of medical service agreements where
the disparity in resources between the service provider and the client could be
significant.” (Motion p. 8.) Although Defendants submit declarations with the
Motion, they do not describe any financial inability by Defendants to pay for
arbitration. 
 
As an initial
matter, we observe that because we find above that the Agreement does not
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 1295, subdivisions (a) and (b),
Section 1295, subdivision (e) does not apply and does not prevent this court
from finding that the Agreement is a contract of adhesion or unconscionable.
 
Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff submitted no evidence relating to the specific circumstances
surrounding the signing of the [Agreement].” (Reply p. 5.) We disagree because
Plaintiff submits the Xifaras Declaration with the Opposition. And, although
Defendant observes that “[t]here is no evidence that Plaintiff informed any of
the Defendants that she was not willing to sign the [Agreement] and that
Defendant refused to provide services,” Defendant submits no evidence that the
Agreement was not an adhesion contract or that Plaintiff was free to decline to
sign the Agreement and would have still received services. Following Sonic-Calabasas
A, Inc. v. Moreno, supra, 57 Cal.4th 1109 at 1157, the facts in a
motion to compel arbitration such as this Motion “are to be proven by affidavit
or declaration and documentary evidence.”
 
We find that the
Agreement is an adhesion contract. Through the Xifaras Declaration, Plaintiff
makes a showing that Plaintiff was not afforded a real opportunity to
negotiate, or refuse to sign the Agreement. Further, the Xifaras Declaration
states that the Agreement was not explained to Plaintiff so that she could
fully understand it, nor was she afforded any opportunity to or advised to
consult an attorney before signing it, especially given that the Agreement was
first presented to her on the same day as the procedure. This court therefore
finds that some amount of procedural unconscionability exists.
 
We observe that
because the Agreement does not reference payment for arbitration, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1284.2 would require Parties to equally split the cost of
arbitration. Based on the financial status of Plaintiff described in the
Xifaras Declaration and in the absence of any showing by Defendants about their
ability to afford arbitration, we believe that Plaintiff is unable to afford
arbitration. Following Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc., supra, 114
Cal.App.4th 77 at 89, this court finds that because the Agreement is an
adhesion contract, forcing Plaintiff to pay for more costly arbitration in
order to bring her claims in the face of arbitration costs that she cannot
afford is substantively unconscionable. 
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff bears the burden of showing that arbitration would be
prohibitively expensive and that arbitration agreements that require parties to
pay their own costs are not necessarily invalid. (Reply pp. 5–6, citing Green
Tree Financial Corp.-Alabama v. Randolph (2000) 531 U.S. 79, 91–92 and Vasquez
v. Greene Motors, Inc. (2013) 154 Cal.Rptr.3d 778, 794, rev. granted.) We
agree with these propositions but find the cases that Defendant cites
distinguishable. Vasquez v. Greene Motors, Inc., supra, at 794–95
explains that a party arguing the existence of substantive unconscionability on
the grounds of excessive arbitration costs must “submit evidence of his own
financial resources, the reasonably anticipated cost of this particular arbitration,
and the amount of the potential award.” In Vasquez v. Greene Motors, Inc.,
supra, at 795, the plaintiff provided evidence of none of these items. And in Green
Tree Financial Corp.-Alabama v. Randolph, supra, at 90, the record
“contain[ed] hardly any information on the matter [of the plaintiff’s costs of
going to arbitration].” Here, through the Xifaras and the Hemesath
Declarations, Plaintiff has raised evidence of the costs of arbitration and
Plaintiff’s inability to pay them. Thus, we are satisfied that the evidence in
this case exceeds those in Vasquez v. Greene Motors, Inc., supra, at 795
and Green Tree Financial Corp.-Alabama v. Randolph, supra, at 90 and
that Plaintiff has met her evidentiary burden.
 
Thus, this court
finds both that both procedural and substantive unconscionability exist in the
Agreement. Additionally, we find sufficient procedural and substantive
unconscionability to find that the Agreement should not be enforced. 
 

Conclusion

 
This court finds
that (1) no agreement to arbitrate exists that governs Plaintiff’s causes of
action, other than the seventh and eighth causes of action, (2) the Agreement
does not comply with Section 1295’s requirements, and (3) the Agreement is
unenforceable because it is unconscionable. 
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion.
 
 
Dated:             July
17, 2024                                                  _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court