 Case Number:  24VECV00135    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 Kristopher
  Lamberson, et al.,
 
         Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
 
 Dennis Schroeder,
          Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
         24VECV00135        107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: 
 
Demurrer



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
Defendant Dennis
Schroeder demurs to the first amended complaint brought by plaintiffs
Kristopher Lamberson, Dante Santana, and Jordan Cox. This court sustains the
demurrer without leave to amend.
 
I.
BACKGROUND
On April
20, 2022, plaintiffs Kristopher Lamberson (“Lamberson”), Dante Santana
(“Santana”), and Jordan Cox (“Cox” and, together with Lamberson and Santana,
“Plaintiffs”) leased a property (the “Property”) from defendant Dennis
Schroeder (“Defendant” and, together with Plaintiffs, “Parties”) by executing a
lease agreement (the “Lease”). (FAC p. 2, 4.) The Lease expired on May 1, 2023,
required a $50,000 security deposit, and called for monthly rent of $35,000.
(Ibid.) On May 1, 2023, Plaintiffs vacated the Property, but Defendant did not
return the security deposit to them. (Ibid.)
 
Paragraph
A of Section 35 of the Lease reads, in relevant part,
 
Landlord
and Tenant agree to mediate any dispute or claim arising between them out of
this Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before resorting to court action.
Mediation fees, if any, shall be divided equally among the parties involved.
If, for any dispute or claim to which this paragraph applies, any party
commences an action without first attempting to resolve the matter through
mediation, or refuses to mediate after a request has been made, then that party
shall not be entitled to recover attorney fees, even if they would otherwise be
available to that party in any such action.
 
(Complaint
Exh. 1.) The Lease identifies Defendant as “Landlord” and Plaintiffs, inter
alios, as “Tenant.” (Ibid.) 
 
On January
10, 2024, Plaintiffs initiated this action by filing a complaint (the
“Complaint”). On March, 19, 2024, Plaintiffs amended the Complaint and filed a
first amended complaint (the “FAC”), which alleges causes of actions for (1)
bad faith retention of a security deposit and (2) breach of contract. 
 
After
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint, Defendant’s counsel sought to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel about the issues raised by the Demurrer and requesting
voluntary dismissal in favor of mediation, which request Plaintiffs refused.
(Jackson Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. D.)
 
On May 21,
2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer (the “Demurrer”). On July 3, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition (the “Opposition’) to the Demurrer, to which
Defendant replied on July 10, 2024.
 
After
Defendant brought the Demurrer, Plaintiffs e-mailed Defendant agreeing to move
forward with mediation. (Gillick Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Defendant e-mailed
Plaintiffs the name of a preferred mediator, and Plaintiffs obtained that
mediator’s availability. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs mistakenly forwarded the
e-mail with the mediator’s availability to a non-existent e-mail address
instead of to Defendant, and efforts to pursue mediation ceased. (Ibid.;
Jackson Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs indicate that they are “no longer willing
to move forward with mediation.” (Gillick Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
II.
PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
 

Timeliness of Filings 

 
Per
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a
complaint should be filed within 30 days after service of the complaint. Per
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers
should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing,
oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set
hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court
days before the set hearing. Judges have discretion as to whether to consider
or strike an untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister v. County of
Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10
Cal.App.3d 193, 196 (disapproved on other grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney,
Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176).)¿¿¿ 
 
Plaintiffs
filed a proof of service indicating that Defendant was personally served on May
3, 2024.
 
We are
satisfied that the Demurrer, the Opposition, and the reply are all timely.
 

The Meet & Confer Requirement 

 
California
Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and
confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally
resolve the objections raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required
to file and serve with the demurrer a declaration either confirming that
parties were unable to resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having
met and conferred or that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the
demurring party in good faith. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41, subd.
(a)(3).) 
 
Defendant
filed with the complaint a declaration by his counsel indicating that parties
met and conferred before the filing of the Demurrer but were unable to resolve
the issues raised thereby. (Jackson Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
We are
satisfied that this requirement has been met.
 
III.
LEGAL STANDARD
  
As a
general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard,
a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[W]here
the only issue litigated is covered by the arbitration clause, and where
plaintiff has not first pursued or attempted to pursue his arbitration remedy,
it should be held that (1) plaintiff has impliedly waived his right to
arbitrate, such that defendant could elect to submit the matter to the
jurisdiction of the court; (2) defendant may also elect to demur
or move for summary judgment on the ground that the plaintiff has failed to
exhaust arbitration remedies; and (3) defendant may also elect to move for a
stay of proceedings pending arbitration if defendant also moves to compel
arbitration.” (Charles J. Rounds Co. v. Joint Council of Teamsters No. 42
(1971) 4 Cal.3d 888, 899, emphasis added.)
 
Mediation
provisions are interpreted according to the ordinary rules of contract
interpretation. (Frei v. Davey (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1506, 1518.) “The
words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and popular sense.”
(Civil Code § 1644) “We interpret the intent and scope of the agreement by
focusing on the usual and ordinary meaning of the language used and the
circumstances under which the agreement was made.” (Frei v. Davey, supra,
at 1518, quoting Lloyd's Underwriters v. Craig & Rush, Inc. (1994)
26 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1197–98.)
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 

The Demurrer

 
Defendant
demurs to both causes of action in the FAC “pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure Sections 430.10(a), (b) and/or (e) on the ground that the
parties expressly ‘agreed to mediate any dispute or claim arising between them
out of [the Lease], or any resulting transaction, before resorting to court
action,’ but Plaintiffs prematurely filed this action prior to engaging in
required alternative dispute resolution.” (Notice of Demurrer p. 2.)
 
Parties
disagree about whether the Lease mandates mediation before this action may be
brought in this court. (Demurrer p. 5; Opposition p. 2.) Plaintiffs’ sole
argument is that “[m]ediation is a condition precedent to attorney’s fees
only.” (Opposition p. 2.) We disagree. Plaintiffs’ interpretation of the
Lease’s mediation provision is contrary to the plain meaning of its language.
The Lease requires parties to “mediate any dispute or claim arising between
them out of this Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before resorting to
court action.” The subsequent sentences in the mediation provision regarding
attorney’s fees add to Parties’ agreement to mediate; they do not create
conditions precedent to it.
 
Following Charles
J. Rounds Co. v. Joint Council of Teamsters No. 42, supra, 4 Cal.3d
888 at 899, Defendant may demur to the FAC. Because both causes of action
brought by the FAC arise between Parties, all of whom are parties to the Lease,
out of the Lease, Plaintiffs were required by Section 35 of the Lease to pursue
mediation before bringing this action. In other words, the only issues being
litigated are covered by the mediation clause, and Plaintiffs have not first
pursued or attempted to pursue mediation. Therefore, following Charles J.
Rounds Co. v. Joint Council of Teamsters No. 42, supra, at 899,
Defendant may (1) submit the matter to the jurisdiction of this court, (2)
demur to the FAC, or (3) move to compel arbitration and a stay of proceedings.
Defendant, by bringing the Demurrer, elects the second of its options.
 
We
recognize that Charles J. Rounds Co. v. Joint Council of Teamsters No. 42,
supra, 4 Cal.3d 888 at 899 refers only to arbitration agreements and not
to mediation agreements or generally to all alternative dispute resolution
agreements. However, Plaintiffs do not raise this argument in the Opposition
and have thus waived it. (See Assad v. Southern Pacific Transportation Co. (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 1609, 1615 [stating that complete silence in an opposition to a
motion, as to an issue, results in a waiver the right to argue the matter in
trial court and on appeal].) Additionally, we are satisfied that courts
generally treat arbitration agreements and mediation agreements similarly. We
therefore consider Charles J. Rounds Co. v. Joint Council of Teamsters No.
42, supra, at 899 to be applicable to all alternative dispute
resolution agreements.
 
We also
recognize that Charles J. Rounds Co. v. Joint Council of Teamsters No. 42,
supra, 4 Cal.3d 888 at 899 only permits a defendant to demur to a
complaint if the plaintiff has not “pursued or attempted to pursue”
its alternative dispute resolution remedies. (Emphasis added.) However,
Plaintiffs do not argue in the Opposition that the Demurrer should be overruled
because they attempted to pursue mediation, and Plaintiffs therefore waive the
argument. (See Assad v. Southern Pacific Transportation Co., supra,
42 Cal.App.4th 1609 at 1615.) Additionally, we find Plaintiffs’ efforts to
pursue mediation to be inadequate or non-existent. Plaintiffs were required by
Section 35 of the Lease to have pursued mediation before bringing the
Complaint, but all of Plaintiffs’ efforts to pursue mediation occurred after
Defendant brought the Demurrer. Additionally, Plaintiffs’ mediation efforts
consist of seeking Defendant’s preferred mediator and obtaining that mediator’s
availability. Then, Plaintiffs never e-mailed the mediator’s availability to
Defendant, and thereby ended mediation efforts. We do not find these efforts to
amount to a real or significant attempt to pursue mediation.
 

Leave to Amend

 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to amend the
complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally allowed as a
matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it is incapable
of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th
730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after
sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.) 
 
While this
is the first time a demurrer has been sustained in this action, we do not see
any reasonable possibility that Plaintiffs’ failure to pursue mediation before
bringing this action can be cured by amendment. Rather, to bring their claims,
Plaintiffs must first pursue mediation, and only if and after these efforts
fail may Plaintiffs pursue litigation. 
 
Accordingly,
this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer without leave to amend.
 
 
Dated:             July
17, 2024                                                  _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court