  Case Number:  20STCV09649    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARCUS LAUN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JAMES PAKULIS, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV09649
  Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant james pakulis’ motion to
  vacate order 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 9, 2020, Plaintiff Marcus
Laun filed the present action against James Pakulis, Arnie Johansson, and
TransCanna Holdings, Inc. The complaint asserts causes of action for breach of
contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, constructive trust, declaratory
relief, interference with contract, and unfair competition.
            The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
and Defendant Pakulis formed a partnership called MarJa for the distribution of
marijuana products. Plaintiff and Pakulis purchased Geopulse Exploration, Inc.
through which to operate their cannabis production and distribution business.
Thereafter, Pakulis allegedly betrayed Plaintiff by stealing Plaintiff’s
proprietary information for use in a competing venture. Pakulis allegedly
formed TransCanna Holdings with Defendant Johansson.  
            On March 23, 2021, TransCanna filed
a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Geopulse, and MarJa for declaratory
relief. On March 29, 2021, Pakulis filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff,
Geopulse, and Growth Circle, Inc., asserting fraud, unjust enrichment, and
declaratory relief.             
In a statement of decision following a
bench trial, the Court made the following findings. Plaintiff and Pakulis
formed a partnership. Pakulis breached the partnership agreement and his
fiduciary duties to Plaintiff, and committed constructive fraud. Plaintiff and
Pakulis were entitled to share equally in TransCanna, but Plaintiff was not
entitled to any equitable remedy against TransCanna. The Court awarded
Plaintiff $1.23 million against Pakulis. Pakulis failed to establish fraud but
was entitled to restitution from Geopulse and Growth in the amount of $25,000.
Judgment was entered accordingly on September 25, 2023. Pakulis has since
appealed the judgment. 
            On March 30, April 3, and April 5,
2024, Defendant Pakulis attempted to file his Proposed Settled Statement, which
was rejected each time. On April 3 and April 15, 2024, Defendant filed two
motions for an order directing the clerk to file his Proposed Settled Statement
nunc pro tunc. The Court addressed both motions and denied them on May
6, 2024. On May 17, 2024, the Court ordered Plaintiff to file a response to
Defendant’s proposed settled statement by June 7, 2024 and set a hearing on
Finalization of Settled Statement on Appeal for June 14, 2024. At the June 14
hearing, the Court considered defendant’s proposed settled statement and plaintiff’s
proposed amendments to the settled statement and thereafter issued a ruling on
the finalized statement on June 17, 2024. 
  
            On May 28, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion to vacate the Court’s May 17, 2024 order and to rule on
Defendant’s motion for an order directing the clerk to file Defendant’s
Proposed Settled Statement nunc pro tunc.        
DISCUSSION
            Both of Defendant’s motions for a nunc
pro tunc filing were addressed at the May 6, 2024 hearing, and Defendant
failed to appear at this hearing.   The Court held that Defendant’s filings lacked
proper proofs of service and directed Defendant to properly file and serve his
proposed settled statement. Defendant served Plaintiff, but never properly
filed his proposed statement.  The court,
however, considered defendant’s statement, and requested that Plaintiff filed
his response to Defendant’s settled statement on June 7, 2024. The Court
considered both Defendant’s proposed statement and Plaintiff’s response at the
hearing on June 14, 2024 and thereafter issued a ruling on the finalized
settled statement.  
            Based on these facts, there is no
need for the Court to rule again on the nunc pro tunc filing. The issue
is moot because the Court has issued a finalized statement. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion is DENIED. 