 Case Number:  24STCV02725    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
GOLDEN
  BANK, N.A., a federal association and a Texas corporation
 
Plaintiff,
 
v.
  
 
5842
  CARLTON UPWELL, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; PROPHET WALKER, an
  individual; JOSEPH GREEN, an individual, and JOSEPH GREEN, AS TRUSTEE OF THE
  LEXINGTON LIVING TRUST DATED AUGUST 3, 2018; and DOES 1 through 50
Defendants.



 



 
 
Case No.:  24STCV02725
Hearing Date: June 28, 2024
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF GOLDEN BANK, N.A.’s MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
  FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
On February 1, 2024 Plaintiff
GOLDEN BANK, N.A., a federal association and a Texas corporation (“Golden
Bank”) filed this action against Defendants 5482 CARLTON UPWELL, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company (“Upwell”), PROPHET WALKER, an individual
(“Walker”); and JOSEPH GREEN, AS TRUSTEE OF THE LEXINGTON LIVING TRUST (“Green”)
in which Golden Bank alleged a number of Breach of Guaranty claims, and a
Conversion claim. Defendants Walker and Upwell filed Answers to the complaint
on April 15, 2024 and Defendant Green filed an Answer to the Complaint on April
25, 2024. 
            On May 10, 2024, plaintiff filed a
substitution of attorney and substituted in its current counsel for the
previous counsel which filed the Complaint.
Golden Bank now seeks leave to
amend its complaint to correct inadvertently missed components of the prayer
for relief, to change allegations of the Eighth Cause of Action to state a
breach of a Carry Guaranty Agreement and not the Limited Guaranty agreement
originally alleged; to include Mr. Green in the allegations in the Ninth Cause
of Action; and to make additional minor changes. 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant motion for leave to file a first amended complaint. Defendants did
not file an opposition. Plaintiff has filed a valid proof of service by First
Class Mail to all Defendants. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            The court may, in the furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc, §§473 subd. (a), 576.) Courts Must apply a policy of
liberality in permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding, including
during trial, when no prejudice to the opposing party is shown (Duchrow v.
Forrest (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1377.) A party has the right to amend
to correct a misstatement of facts when it appears the error was a result of a
mistake or inadvertence. (Freidberg v. Freidberg (1970) 9 Cal.App.3d
754, 761.) In determining the extent of prejudice to the opposing party, the
court must consider various factors, such as whether the amendment would delay
trial or increase the discovery burden. (Demetriades v. Yelp, Inc. (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 294, 306.)
            A motion for leave to amend a
complaint must be accompanied by a declaration that explains: (1) the effect of
the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Ct.,
Rule 3.1324(b).)  
DISCUSSION
            The moving party seeks to amend (a)
allegations to allege previous counsel and new counsel; (b) to delete reference
to the Limited Guaranty Agreement; (c) to include Defendant Green in one of the
causes of action; (d) to add a Prayer for the Ninth Cause of Action; and (e) allegations
to include both the Walker Guaranty and the Green Guaranty. Second, the moving
party explains that the reason that the amendment is necessary and proper is
because the original Complaint inadvertently alleged the wrong Guaranty
agreement, omitted Defendant Green from some allegations in a cause of action,
and the Prayer for damages was mistakenly corresponded to the wrong causes of
action and in one cause, omitted entirely. Third, the moving party explains
that the defects which are the bases of the amendment were discovered when new
counsel substituted into the case. Finally, the moving party explains that the
request for amendment was not made earlier because the new counsel was only
recently substituted in. Thus, the moving party has met their burden in properly
making the Motion for Leave to Amend.
            No defendants have filed any
opposition to the instant motion claiming any undue prejudice against them. As
stated above, all defendants were properly served with notice of the instant
motion. Further, no discovery has yet occurred, and as such, the amendment would
not be prejudicial to any defendant.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall
file their first amended complaint within 5 days of this order. 