  Case Number:  20AVCV00345    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This¿action
arises from an automobile collision.¿ On or about November 14, 2019, at
approximately 12:26 p.m.,¿Plaintiff Brenna¿Romines¿(“Plaintiff”) was travelling
northbound on 60th Street West in Lancaster, CA in her 2001 Jeep Cherokee (the
“Subject Vehicle”), when she entered the intersection with Avenue F (the
“Accident Location”).¿ At the same time, non-party Kaitlynn Renee Houghton
(“Houghton”) was travelling westbound on Avenue F when she entered the
intersection without stopping at her stop sign due to a dangerous condition on
the roadway, causing the Subject Vehicle to broadside Houghton’s vehicle.¿
(Complaint, at ¶ 1.)¿ The Subject Vehicle overturned and collided with a wooden
electrical pole, causing the pole to collapse, on the northwest corner, before
coming to rest on the adjacent dirt field.¿ 
¿ 
On May 19, 2020,
Plaintiff filed her Complaint alleging three (3) causes of action for (1)
Dangerous Condition of Public Property (against Defendants the State of
California (the “State”), the County of Los Angeles (“COLA”), and the City of
Lancaster (“Lancaster’); (2) Strict Liability (against¿Defendant FCA US, LLC
(“FCA”)); and (3) Negligence (against FCA).¿ FCA is the manufacturer of the
Subject Vehicle.¿ 
 
A Stipulated
Protective Order was granted on July 28, 2020.
 
On October 06,
2020, Plaintiff amended the fictitious name of Doe 1 to Defendant Johnson
Controls, Inc., now known as Adient US, LLC (“Johnson Controls”).   
 
The operative
pleading is the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), filed on October 27, 2021,
alleging three causes of action for: (1) Dangerous Condition of Public Property
– Gov Code §§ 835 et seq., and 840.2 against Lancaster; (2) Strict
Liability against FCA and Johnson Controls; and (3) Negligence against FCA and Johnson
Controls.  
 
On April 26,
2022, Plaintiff amended the fictitious name of Doe 2 to Faurecia Automotive
Seating, LLC (“Faurecia”). The causes of action alleged against Faurecia are
Strict Liability and Negligence.
 
On January 31, 2023, Lancaster
filed their Motion for Summary Judgment, subsequently granted on May 12, 2023.
 
On May 16, 2023, Plaintiff
amended the fictitious names of Doe 3 Valencia Dodge (“Dodge”) to and Doe 4 to
AutoNation, Inc. (“AutoNation”). The causes of action alleged against Dodge and AutoNation are Strict
Liability and Negligence.
 
On June 13, 2023, Faurecia filed
its Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication. 
 
On June 13, 2023, Johnson
Controls filed its Motion for Summary Judgment set for January 02, 2024.
 
On June 14, 2023, Johnson
Controls filed an Ex Parte Application for an Order Advancing the Hearing Date
on its Motion for Summary, or in the alternative, an Order Setting the Hearing Date
within Thirty Days of Trial. 
 
On June 16, 2023, the Ex Parte
Application was granted and Johnson Controls’ Motion for Summary Judgment was
Advanced to August 29, 2023.
 
On July 14, 2023, Auto Company
XXIII, Inc. dba Autonation Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram Valencia, erroneously sued
as AutoNation, Inc. (“Auto Company XXIII”), filed its Answer and a
Cross-Complaint.
 
On July 28, 2023, Autonation
Company XXIII joined in the Stipulated Protective Order, amended on July 31,
2023. 
 
On June 05, 2023, the Court
entered judgment in favor of Lancaster due to the ruling on Lancaster’s Motion
for Summary Judgment. 
 
From June 08, 2023 to July 31,
2023, Plaintiff filed a petition of writ of mandate to the appellate court
regarding Lancaster’s Motion for Summary Judgment, subsequently denied.  
 
On August 02, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Notice of Appeal regarding the June 05, 2023 judgment. The appeal is
still pending. A trial court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the
action and not affected by the judgment or order. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
916(a).)
 
On August 04, 2023, Faurecia
continued its Motion for Summary Judgment from August 29, 2023 to February 13,
2024 
 
On August 03, 2023, Johnson
Controls filed an Ex Parte Application for Order Advancing the Hearing Date and
Shortening the Time on The Application of Tracy Gregar Ferak to Appear as
Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Johnson Controls. The application was granted as to
Johnson Control’s Motion for Summary Judgment.[1]

 
After the Ex Parte Application,
Johnson Controls continued its Motion for Summary Judgment from August 29, 2023
to October 24, 2023. 
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition.
 
On October 19, 2023, Johnson
Controls filed its Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Summary Judgment – The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Cal.¿Code Civ.¿Proc.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿¿¿¿
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Johnson
Controls moves for summary judgment only as to all claims of Plaintiff’s
Complaint. 
 
Johnson Controls presents a brief
background about the seat: (1) on September 15, 2021, the parties and their
experts inspected the Subject Vehicle and its driver’s seat (see Decl. William
R. Tighe (“Tighe”) ¶¶ 5, 8); and (2) Johnson Controls’ expert determined e
driver’s seat had been unbolted and removed from the vehicle, the seat back
frame/recliner sub-assembly had been unbolted from the seat cushion pan, the
seat cushion pan had been unbolted from the seat tracks, the cloth seat covers
had been removed, the seats had been retrimmed with leather, the seat cushion
pan was reassembled to the seat tracks with bolts that were tightened far below
torque specifications, the seat back frame/recliner sub-assembly was
reassembled to the seat cushion pan with bolts that were finger-tightened only,
and the seat was reinstalled in the vehicle floor pan with three bolts that
were finger-tightened only and one bolt that was tightened far below FCA’s
torque specifications during the reinstallation process, and the seat structure
had been modified to include various parts of unknown origin (see id. at
¶¶ 13, 19). The seat modifications included: a setback frame dated August 10,
2001 and August 12, 2001, approx. seven months after the original seat left
Johnson Controls’ control (id. at ¶ 14(a) and Exh. C); a seat cushion
foam with a manufacture date stamp of August 13, 2001, approximately seven
months after the original seat left Johnson Controls’ control (id. at ¶
14(b) and Exh. D); a leather trim with tags dated July 31, 2001 and August 06,
2001, approximately six to seven months after the original seat left Johnson
Controls’ control; the driver’s seat cushion foam was removed (id. at
14(c) and Exh. E), and the suspension wiring related to the driver’s seat was
substantially altered (id. at ¶ 15 and Exh. G). Tighe notes that the new
wiring was “crooked, bent, and. . .haphazardly twisted, likely bent by hand, to
stay on the cushion frame.” (Id. at ¶ 16.) Johnson Controls also
presents that previous owner Sonia Drake (“Drake”) was deposed and stated that
Valencia Dodge offered to reupholster the Subject Vehicle’s seats with leather
when she and her husband was about to leave the dealership without a vehicle,
she and her husband agreed and purchased the Subject Vehicle, and the seats
were leather when she picked up the vehicle. (Decl. Elizabeth C. Christen, Exh.
7 at 6:15-7:8.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, Johnson
Controls argues that (1) California law forbids courts from finding defendants
strictly liable or negligent for injuries caused by replacement parts made by
other parties, citing O’Neil v. Crane (2012) 53 Cal.4th 335 (“O’Niel”);
(2) Plaintiff has the burden to produce evidence linking the allegedly injury-producing
product with a particular entity in the stream of commerce of that product
under Taylor v. Elliot Turbomachinery Co., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
564 (“Taylor”); and (3) Plaintiff cannot meet her burden to link the
allegedly defective modified seat to Johnson Controls because of the facts, ante.
Alternatively, Johnson Controls argues that even if Plaintiff could meet her
burden, it cannot be liable as it is not in the chain of distribution for
Plaintiff’s seat. That is, under Taylor, a test was set out and Johnson
Control believes it satisfies this test as an unknown third party or parties
removed the seat from the Subject Vehicle, replaced the seat’s componentry,
modified the cushion suspension wiring, and improperly installed the seat
without any involvement from Johnson Controls. 
 
The theory alleged by Plaintiff,
as direct to Johnson Controls is (1) strict liability, and (2) negligence. (See
TAC Second and Third Causes of Action.) As this is a Motion for Summary
Judgment, the Court must analyze the evidence and arguments presented by
Johnson Controls as to both legal standards. 
 
“Strict liability has been
invoked for three types of defects – manufacturing defects, design defects, and
‘warning defects,’ i.e., inadequate warnings or failures to warn.” (Anderson
v. Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. (1991) 53 Cal.3d987, 995.) “Under the
Restatement [Rest.3d Torts, Products Liability, § 2], a product is defective if
it: ‘(a) contains a manufacturing defect when the product departs from its
intended design even though all possible care was exercised in the preparation
and marketing of the product; [¶] (b) is defective in design when the foreseeable
risks of harm posed by the product could have been reduced or avoided by the
adoption of a reasonable alternative design by the seller or other distributor,
or a predecessor in the commercial chain of distribution, and the omission of
the alternative design renders the product not reasonably safe; [¶] (c)is
defective because of inadequate instructions or warnings when the foreseeable risks
of harm posed by the product could have been reduced or avoided by the provision
of reasonable instructions or warnings by the seller or other distributor, or a
predecessor in the commercial chain of distribution, and the omission of the instructions
or warnings renders the product not reasonably safe.’ ” (Brady v. Calsol,
Inc. (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1212, 1218-1219.) “A manufacturer is strictly
liable in tort when an article he places on the market, knowing that it is to
be used without inspection for defects, proves to have a defect that causes
injury to a human being. . . . The purpose of such liability is to insure that
the costs of injuries resulting from defective products are borne by the
manufacturers that put such products on the market rather than by the injured persons
who are powerless to protect themselves.” (Greenman v. Yuba Power Products,
Inc. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 57, 62-63.)
 
The pleadings delineate that the
issues alleged are “the Subject Vehicle, its seats, components and parts were
manufactured, designed, distributed, supplied, assembled, installed and/or sold
by the Defendants in a defective and unreasonably dangerous condition.” (TAC ¶
41.) Johnson Controls is an automobile seating manufacturer. It also appears
that there is a basis for failure to warn as a subdivision of paragraph 41
states: “Defective and inadequate warnings concerning failures of the Subject
Vehicle, its seats, components and parts.” (TAC ¶ 41(d).) 
 
The question presented in O’Niel
was: “When is a product manufacturer liable for injuries caused by adjacent
products or replacement parts that were made by others and used in conjunction
with the defendant's product?” (O’Niel, supra, 53 Cal.4th 355,
342.) The O’Niel court discussed gaskets on navy warships in which
defendant provided the valves and not asbestos packing or gaskets. (See id.
at 344-45.) The O’Niel court held: “. . .[A] product manufacturer
generally may not be held strictly liable for harm caused by another
manufacturer's product. The only exceptions to this rule arise when the
defendant bears some direct responsibility for the harm, either because the
defendant's own product contributed substantially to the harm (see Tellez-Cordova,
supra, 129 Cal.App.4th at p. 585), or because the defendant participated
substantially in creating a harmful combined use of the products (see DeLeon,
supra, 148 Cal. App. 3d at p. 343).” (Id. at 362.)
 
Taylor, while focusing on
the warning defect prong of strict liability, provides: (1) a manufacturer is
not strictly liable when they are not part of the chain of distribution of the
injury-causing product (see Taylor, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th 564,
577-79); (2) there is no duty imposed on a manufacturer to warn about the
dangerous propensities of other manufacturers’ products (see id. at 583);
and “[u]nder the component parts doctrine, the manufacturer of a product
component is not liable for injuries caused by the finished product into which
the component is incorporated unless the component itself was defective at the
time it left the manufacturer” (id. at 584; see also id. at
584-86.)
 
Johnson Controls has shown that
the seats’ parts were changed from those it had manufactured. That is, Johnson
control has put out a product and the product that caused Plaintiff’s injury
was not the one they put out due to the alterations. O’Niel, read
liberally, appears to support Johnson Control’s argument. Further support is
found in Green v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 819, 838 in
which it was held that a party that makes extensive modifications to a product
is tantamount to a manufacturer. (See also Ortiz v. HPM Corp. (1991) 234
Cal.App.3d 178, 189 [“A seller of used goods who makes extensive modifications
to a product prior to sale has been considered ‘tantamount to a manufacturer’
subject to strict liability. (Green v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 40
Cal. App. 3d 819, 838 [115 Cal. Rptr. 685].)”].)
 
The Court turns next to
negligence. 
 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd v. County of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) 
 
This Cause of Action is directed
not only to Johnson Controls, but also to FCA, Faurecia, and Dodge. The Court understands that
each defendant performs different functions related to the Subject Vehicle. Johnson
Controls is attacking the causation element of a negligence claim.
 
Johnson Controls’ argument is the same as
previously stated. As applied to negligence, Johnson Controls’ is arguing that
the seat is substantially different from the originally supplied seat, so it
had no duty to Plaintiff. For the same reasons, ante, this appears to be an
affirmative defense. 
 
Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show
the existence of a material fact or a defense thereto.
 
Plaintiff presents that Tighe has (1) testified
that Johnson Controls was the seat cushion pan’s original manufacturer whether
it was an original part of the Subject Vehicle or purchased as an after-market
product (Pl.’s Compendium of Evidence, Exh. 2 88:13-86:6); and (2) this cushion
pan frame, which includes the mounting bracket, is the defective product as it
fractured during the subject incident (Opp. 8:14-15); and (3) the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) has logged complaints of driver’s seat
“mounts” and “brackets” breaking, and seats coming loose from 2001 Jeep
Cherokees, the same model as the Subject Vehicle (Decl. Naresh J. Kar ¶ 13.) Plaintiff also emphasizes
that Tighe, despite now stating the origin of the parts put in the seat are
unknown, identified them as Johnson Controls parts and, as such, arguments
regarding unknown origins and quality of the seats’ parts should be discarded.  Plaintiff argues that, considering these facts,
O’Niel is inapplicable as Johnson Controls was part of the chain of
distribution, and an analysis under Taylor would also lead to liability
for the seat cushion pan. Plaintiff further argues that Johnson Controls failed
to warn consumers about the dangers of not adhering to the torque
specifications and argues that no theory is presented that there is no argument
presented as to who failed to tighten the bolts to specification and, under
California law, opinion testimony of any kind must be supported by facts.
Plaintiff presents that her expert has opined that there could be many causes
for the improperly installed bolts, including improper installation. (Decl.
Naresh J. Kar ¶ 12.) 
 
As Johnson Controls’ own expert has admitted that
the cushion pan frame is the one that Johnson Controls installed, Johnson
Controls’ cited cases are no longer applicable. The case is sufficiently
distinguished from O’Niel as Plaintiff produced the cushion seat frame
that remained a part of the seat and caused issues during the incident.
Likewise, Plaintiff’s burden under Taylor is satisfied as the seat
cushion pan frame is alleged to be the injury causing component. Accordingly, a
triable issue of one or more
material facts exists. 
 
The Court need not address the failure to warn arguments as Plaintiff
has already met her burden to show a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists.
 
Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
-----
 
Reply
 
Johnson Controls emphasizes that whether the
components in the modified seat came from them is irrelevant as the components were
not original parts assembled into Plaintiff’s seat prior to the Subject
Vehicle’s January 18, 2001 manufacture date. Because of this, Johnson Controls
argues that only two conclusions can be drawn: (1) the seat involved in
the incident was not the same seat structure designed, assembled, tested, and
supplied by Johnson Controls; and (2) the seat in Plaintiff’s vehicle was
assembled and installed into the vehicle by a third party. Johnson Controls
argues that the undisputed material facts show that at some time during the
Subject Vehicle’s history a third party unbolted the seat cushion from the seat
track, disassembled the seat cushion pan, seat tracks, recliners, and seat
frame, replaced all or some of the component parts with different parts from
different manufacture dates, reattached and rebolted the components together,
and reassembled the seat. Johnson Controls argues that this shows that its
original seat assembly was undone. Johnson Controls emphasizes that it did not
design, assemble, or install the bolts in the altered seat. Johnson Controls
argues that Plaintiff misapplies O’Niel and that it had no duty to warn of
the alleged risks of loose and/or under torqued bolts. Johnson Controls
presents that once it distributed the seat to FCA, it had no control over the
seat and FCA had the duty to warn Plaintiff of the potential dangers.
 
The evidence provided by Johnson
Controls did not refute that the seat cushion pan was the original pan supplied
by Johnson Controls nor did it deny that the alleged fracture of the seat
cushion pan was the cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. 
 
The Court’s opinion remains unchanged.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Johnson Controls, Inc.’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.


