 Case Number:  22NWCV01522    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  C THEE AGUILA, INC. v. PICO RIVERA
FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTORS, LP 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01522 
HEARING:  10/31/24
 
#3 
 
Defendants’ PICO RIVERA FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTORS, LP and
MORTGAGE CO. OF SANTA BARBARA, INC.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint is MOOT in part and OVERRULED in part. Moving
Defendants to Answer in 10 days.
 
Opposing to give notice. 
 
Defendants’ Requests for Judicial Notice are GRANTED. (Cal.
Ev. Code §452.) 
 
This action for quiet title was filed by Plaintiff THEE
AGUILA, INC. (“TAI” or “Plaintiff”) against Defendants PICO RIVERA FIRST
MORTGAGE INVESTORS LP (“PRFMI”); MORTGAGE COMPANY OF SANTA BARBARA, INC.
(“MCSB”); MERCURY BOWL LLC (“Mercury Bowl”); GREEN RIVERA LLC (“Green Rivera”)
PICO RIVERA HOLDINGS LVT, LLC (“Pico Rivera Holdings”) on December 7, 2022. 
 
On April 4, 2024, the operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) was filed. 
 
The SAC alleges, in pertinent part: “Commencing in 2002, TAI
became the fee simple owner of commercial real estate located at 8825
Washington Blvd., Pico Rivera, California 90660….The Property consisted of a
34,000 square foot building used as a nightclub, restaurant and banquet venue.”
(SAC ¶13.) “On or about July 16, 2015, TAI borrowed $5,700,000 from PRFMI (the
‘Loan’) which was secured by the Property pursuant to a Deed of Trust from
TAI….” (SAC ¶14.) “TAI defaulted on the Loan and PRFMI on or about December 6,
2017 attempted to conduct a trustee’s sale of the Property pursuant to its
power of sale under the Deed of Trust. PRFMI made a winning credit bid in the
amount of $5,105,000. At the time of the attempted trustee’s sale, the amount
outstanding on the Loan was $6,116,346.01. The appraised value of the Property
was not less than $13,417,000.” (SAC ¶15.) “The Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale was
void and a nullity and did not validly convey any title to the Property to
PRFMI because the attempted trustee’s sale was held in violation of a
bankruptcy automatic stay and was therefor void ab initio.” (SAC ¶17.)
“At the time of the attempted trustee’s sale of the Property, Guinivere Malley,
a junior lienholder with respect to the Property, was in Chapter 13 bankruptcy…
and therefore the automatic stay of 11 U.S.C. section 362 was in place,
prohibiting any collection activity with respect to the Property, including any
trustee’s sale by PRFMI.” (SAC ¶18.) “PFRMI attempted to transfer title to the
Property (title which PRFMI did not possess at the time because of the void
nature of the prior attempted trustee’s sale) by delivering a deed to the
Property to Mercury Bowl and Green Rivera, dated October 17, 2019, which was
recorded on November 20, 2019.” (SAC ¶19.) “Plaintiff is informed and believes
and based thereon alleges that prior to the attempted transfer of title to
Mercury Bowl and Green Rivera, Mercury Bowl and Green Rivera were well aware of
the void nature of the attempted trustee’s sale and the claims by TAI of a
continuing ownership interest in the Property. For example, they were in
receipt of allegations by Henry Aguila, principal of TAI, of continuing claims
to the Property that were contained in a complaint that had been filed by Mr.
Aguila.” (SAC ¶21.) “On or about November 11, 2020, PRFMI filed a motion for
retroactive relief from stay in the bankruptcy case of Malley, without
providing any notice of such filing or copy of such filing to TAI. [¶] On or
about December 8, 2020, the federal bankruptcy court granted PRFMI’s motion for
retroactive relief from stay. However, such federal relief from stay did not
breath life into the void and null Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale delivered to PRFMI
in December, 2017 or cause PRFMI to have had any interest in the Property to
convey to Green Rivera and Mercury Bowl I October and November, 2019 since
there is no provision under California law for breathing life into a void
instrument. Under California law, instruments which are void are a nullity and
cannot be made the foundation of good title. (SAC ¶¶22-23.) 
 
“TAI therefore seeks to quiet title as of the date of the
purported transfer of the Property from PRFMI to Green Rivera and Mercury
Bowl…. A determination is sought as of such date because if PRFMI did not have
valid title to the Property on the date of the purported transfer, then Green
Rivera and Mercury Bown obtained no interest in the Property as a result of the
purported transfer. Also, if PRFMI did not have valid title to the Property as
of the date of the purported transfer, then title remained with Plaintiff as of
such date.” (SAC ¶24.) 
 
The SAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Quiet
Title (against PRFMI, Mercury Bowl, and Green Rivera); 
(2) Waste
(against Mercury Bowl and Green Rivera); and 
(3) Wrongful
Foreclosure (against PRFMI and Mortgage Co. of Santa Barbara, Inc.) 
 
Defendant PRFMI generally demurs to the first cause of
action for Quiet Title; and Defendants PRFMI and MCSB generally demur to the
third cause of action for Wrongful Foreclosure.   
 
First Cause of Action – Quiet Title as to PRFMI 
 
On October 18, 2024, a Request for Dismissal without
prejudice as to the Quiet Title Cause of Action as to PRFMI was filed.
Consequently, PRFMI’s Demurrer to the first cause of action for Quiet Title is
MOOT. 
 
Third Cause of Action – Wrongful Foreclosure as to PRFMI
and MCSB. 
 
“The elements of a wrongful foreclosure cause of action are:
(1) [T]he trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal, fraudulent, or willfully
oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage or
deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale (usually but not always the
trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and (3) in cases where the
trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale, the trustor or mortgagor tendered the
amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering. [Citation
Omitted.]” (Citrus El Dorado, LLC v. Chicago Title Co. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 943, 948.)
 
          Statute of
Limitations
 
Moving Defendants argue that this claim is barred by the
statute of limitations because the alleged wrongful foreclosure occurred on
December 6, 2017, and this action was not filed until five years later on
December 7, 2022.Generally, the statute of limitation for wrongful foreclosure
is three years. (CCP §338(a)(d). 
 
A defendant may be equitably estopped to assert the statute
of limitations as a defense. “Whenever a party has, by his own statement or
conduct, intentionally and deliberately led another to believe a particular
thing true to act upon such belief, he is not, in any litigation arising out of
such statement or conduct, permitted to contradict it.” (Cal. Ev. Code §623.)
“One cannot justly or equitably lull his adversary into a false sense of
security, and thereby cause his adversary to subject his claim to the bar of
the statute of limitation, and then be permitted to plead the very delay caused
by his course of conduct as a defense to the action when brought.” (Carruth
v. Fritch (1950) 36 Cal.2d 426, 433.) “To create an equitable estoppel, it
is enough if the party has been induced to refrain from using such means or
taking such action as lay in his power, by which he might have retrieved his
position and saved himself from loss.” (Atwater Elementary School Dist. v.
Cal. Dept. of Gen. Svcs. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 227, 232.) To establish
equitable estoppel, a plaintiff must allege: (1) the party to be estopped knew
the true facts; (2) the party made a misrepresentation, by words or conduct,
bearing on the necessity of bringing a timely suit; (3) the party intended its
words or conduct would be acted upon, or led plaintiff to believe it was so
intended; and (4) the plaintiff was ignorant of the true state of facts; and
(5) the plaintiff reasonably relied in delaying commencement of the action. (Doheny
Park Terrace Homeowners Ass’n Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exch. (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 1076.)
 
Plaintiff alleges the following facts to support a finding
that Defendants are estopped from asserting a statute of limitations defense:
“TAI is informed and believes and based thereon alleges that PRFMI dissuaded
other potential bidders from bidding at the attempted trustee’s sale. This
allowed PFRMI to have a winning bid by making a credit bid in the amount of
$5,105,000, far less than the $13,417,000 fair market value of the Property.
[¶] Alternative to the quiet tile and waste claim above, Plaintiff TAI alleges
that the purported trustee’s sale was a wrongful foreclosure and the Trustee’s
Deed upon Sale is voidable as a result of the bid chilling by PRFMI. At the
time of the wrongful foreclosure, Defendant PRFMI purposefully lulled Plaintiff
TAI into not filing a wrongful foreclosure lawsuit by entering into an option
contract with TAI, which PRFMI later breached, that gave Plaintiff TAI the
option, for a period of at least one year from the date of recording the
Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale, to have the Property deeded back to Plaintiff (or a
designee) for an amount equal to the outstanding amount of the Loan. [¶] In
addition, the statute of limitations on this cause of action did not commence
until the granting of retroactive relief from stay by the bankruptcy court in
December, 2020 because prior to that granting of retroactive relief the
trustee’s sale was void ab initio and of no force and effect and
therefore no foreclosure had taken place.” (SAC ¶¶32-35.) 
 
“A demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie
where the action may be, but is not necessarily, barred. In order for the bar…
to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on
the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the
action may be barred.” (Comm. For Green Foothills v. Santa Clara Cty. Bd. of
Supervisors (2010) 48 Cal.4th 32, 42.) Defendants make a number of
arguments on the merits of the claim, which is inappropriate at the demurrer
stage. TAI adequately alleges, for purposes of surviving demurrer, that PRFMI
lulled TAI into entering into an option contract with TAI, which lulled TAI
into not filing a wrongful foreclosure lawsuit. Construing Plaintiff’s
allegations liberally, the Court does not find that this action is barred by
the statute of limitations at this stage in the litigation. 
 
          Statute of
Frauds 
 
Defendants also argue that TAI’s claim is barred by the
statute of frauds. However, as indicated above, TAI’s claim for wrongful
foreclosure is based on the doctrine of promissory estoppel. Promissory
estoppel precludes the statute of frauds defense. “A party is estopped to
assert the statute of frauds as a defense where [the] party, by words or
conduct, represents that he will stand by his oral agreement, and the other
party, in reliance upon that representation, changes his position, to his
detriment… Accordingly, to the extent appellants’ claim is premised on
promissory estoppel,… the statute of frauds will [not] defeat their claim.” (Garcia
v. World Sav., FSB (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1040, n.2.) “The doctrine
of estoppel to assert the statute of frauds is invoked to prevent fraud that
inheres in unconscionable injury that would result from denying enforcement of
the oral contract after one party has been induced by the other seriously to
change his position in reliance upon the oral contract.” (Associated
Creditors’ Agency v. Haley Land Co. (1966) 239 Cal.App.2d 610, 617.) Here,
the Court finds that the elements of a claim for promissory estoppel are
sufficiently pled for purposes of surviving demurrer, defeating Defendants’
statute of frauds argument. 
 
          “Wrongful”
          
Next, Defendants argue that this cause of action fails
because TAI fails to allege facts to support a finding that the foreclosure was
“wrongful” as a matter of law. However, the TAI alleges that the foreclosure at
issue was conducted in violation of a bankruptcy stay. The arguments in
demurrer raise factual determinations improperly decided at this time. 
 
          Tender
Requirement 
 
Lastly, Defendants argue that this claim fails because TAI
does not plead that it tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was
excused from doing so.  
 
“As a general rule, a plaintiff may not challenge the
property of a foreclosure on his or her property without offering to repay what
he or she borrowed against the property. [Citations]….[¶] A valid tender of
performance must be of the full debt, in good faith, unconditional, and with
the ability to perform. [Citations.]” (Intengan v. BAC Home Loans Servicing
LP (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1053.) 
 
Equitable exceptions to the tender rule include: “(1) where
the borrower’s action attacks the validity of the underlying debt, tender is
not required since it would constitute affirmation of the debt; [citations] (2)
when the person who seeks to set aside the trustee’s sale has a counter-claim
or set-off against the beneficiary, the tender and the counter-claim offset
each other and if the offset is grater than or equal to the amount due, tender
is not required; [citations]; (3) a tender may not be required if it would be
‘inequitable’ to impose such a condition on the party challenging the sale;
[citations]; (4) tender is not required where the trustor’s attack is based not
on principles of equity but on the basis that the trustee’s deed is void on its
face (such as where the original trustee had been substituted out before the
sale occurred; [citations] [(5)] when the load was made in violation of
substantive law, or in breach of the loan agreement or an agreement to modify
the loan; [citations] [and (6)] when the borrower is not in default and there
is no basis for the foreclosure. [Citations Omitted.]” (Turner v. Seterus,
Inc. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 516, 536-537.) 

 
TAI does not allege actual and unconditional tender of the
entire amount of indebtedness due under the loan. 
 
Rather, TAI alleges the following exceptions to the tender
rule: the foreclosure sale was void, in violation of the automatic bankruptcy
stay; and as argued in Opposition, TAI alleges facts to support a finding that
they are “excused from the tender requirement because the outstanding amount of
the loan at the time of the foreclosure sale was $6,116,346.01 and absent the
bid-chilling, a bid substantially higher than that would have been received.”
(Opp. 5:22-27; see also SAC 32 and 36) These allegations are sufficient to
withstand demurrer. 
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 