 Case Number:  23NWCV01574    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  C ATTIA v. JAY BHARAT
LODGING, LLC
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV01574
HEARING:  10/31/24
 
#5
 
Defendant
JAY BHARAT LODGING, LLC’s motion to transfer venue is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
This
personal injury (slip and fall) action was filed by Plaintiff ASHLEY ATTIA
(“Plaintiff”) against Defendant JAY BHARAT LODGING, LLC (“Defendant”) on May
23, 2023. Allegedly, “PLAINTIFF slipped and injured herself while in the HOTEL
by slipping and failing on a surface that had not been cleaned, cleared and/or
made safe.” (Complaint ¶26.) 
 
Defendant
moves to transfer this action to Mono County Superior Court under CCP §397(a)
because the slip and fall incident occurred at the Empeiria High Sierra Hotel,
in the city of Mammoth Lakes, which is located in Mono County; and Defendant
operates the subject hotel in Mono County. 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that venue is proper in Los Angeles County because
Defendant’s Secretary of State filings indicate that their principal office
location is designated as 7871 Paramount Blvd., Pico Rivera, CA 90660, in Los
Angeles County. 
 
CCP
§395(a) provides in part: “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law…the superior
court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action. If
the action is for injury to person or personal property… the superior court in
either the county where the injury occurs or the injury causing death occurs or
the county where the defendants, or some of them reside at the commencement of
the action, is a proper court for the trial of the action.” 
 
The
burden is on the moving party to establish that the venue selected by a
plaintiff is improper. The moving party has the burden of “negating the
propriety of venue as laid on all possible grounds.” (Karson Industries,
Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 7, 8-9.) 
 
Defendant
has shown that venue is proper in Moro County because it is undisputed that
Defendant’s alleged liability arose within Moro County. 
 
The
Motion to Transfer Venue is GRANTED. 