 Case Number:  23NWCV02918    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  C GARCIA v. SANTA FE
INN
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02918
HEARING:  10/31/24
 
#6
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to file a Second Amended
Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
The Proposed Second Amended Complaint attached as Exhibit 1
to the Declaration of Levik Yarian, Esq. is not deemed filed as of the date of
this hearing. Plaintiffs are ORDERED
to FILE the Second Amended Complaint
by no later than 5 days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
 
Plaintiffs Griselda Aguilar Garcia and Juan C. Aguilar
(“Plaintiffs”) sue Defendants Santa Fe Inn, 6340 Sante Fe, LLC, Jayesh Patel
(“Defendants”) for negligence – premises liability, negligence per se,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and loss of consortium.  In the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed
on January 12, 2024, Plaintiffs allege that “[t]his lawsuit concerns the
uninhabitable conditions of a hotel complex, consisting of multiple units,
owned, managed, operated, and maintained by the Defendants. As a result of
Defendants’ failure to repair and maintain the Subject Property in a reasonably
safe condition, in that they failed to properly maintain pest control on the
property, Plaintiffs endured slum-type conditions resulting in personal injury,
financial loss, and presently ongoing emotional distress and physical pain and
multiple medical procedures.” (FAC, ¶
3.) 
 
Plaintiffs now seek leave to file a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) on the basis that the discovery process has revealed new information
discovered after the First Amended Complaint was filed. The proposed SAC would
add two new defendants and a claim for punitive damages. 
 
In Opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Motion
should be denied because granting Plaintiffs’ Motion would severely prejudice
Defendants as it forces them to restart discovery six months before trial. 
 
Trial is set to begin on April 30, 2025.  
 
California recognizes “a general rule of…liberal allowance
of amendments…” (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,
939.) It has also long been recognized that “even if the proposed legal theory
is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and
allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment
on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) In light of great liberality
employed when ruling on a motion for leave to amend, the court will not
normally consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading since grounds
for demurrer or motion to strike are premature. Thus, absent prejudice to the
opposing party, courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up
to and including trial.” (emphasis added.) (Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) 
 
In light of the liberality associated with granting motions
for leave to amend up to and including the time of trial, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
should be afforded the opportunity to make the proposed amendments. Defendants maintain
their right to compel discovery, demur, move for judgment on the pleadings, move
to strike, or move for summary judgment. 
 
The parties are not foreclosed from seeking a continuance of
the trial date in Dept. SE-F. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED.
 