  Case Number:  23STCP04590    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  85 
New Village Charter School v. California
Department of Education and Tony Thurmond, Superintendent of Public Instruction,
23STCP04590  


Tentative decision on petition
for mandamus: granted



 
Petitioner New Village
Charter School (“New Village”) seeks mandamus directing Respondents California
Department of Education (“CDE”) and Tony Thurmond, Superintendent of Public
Instruction and Director of Education (“Superintendent”), to lawfully determine
New Village’s eligibility to receive Supplemental Funding as a classroom-based
charter school.  
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the Case
1. The Petition
Petitioner New Village filed the Petition against
Respondents CDE and Superintendent on December 21, 2023, alleging claims of
mandamus and declaratory relief.  The
Petition alleges in pertinent part as follows.
New Village is a non-profit high school chartered since 2006
by the Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) to serve high risk young
women at its campus in the Rampart neighborhood of Los Angeles.  New Village at all relevant times has been classified
as a site-based school by CDE and has provided a full-day, classroom-based
curriculum throughout its 17-year existence.
During the COVID-19 pandemic and state of emergency, New
Village – like schools across the state -- was required to close its campus and
provide instruction solely by distance learning via the internet.  Throughout the period of campus closure, New
Village maintained its extraordinary faculty-student ratio of one fully
credentialed teacher for every ten students, and provided exceptional support
for students including home visits, delivery of essential supplies, and mental
health and counseling, in addition to its full curriculum by distance learning.
 Except during the COVID-19 pandemic, nonclassroom
studies have never been a material part of the New Village instructional
program.  Independent studies have been
provided to students only on a temporary basis when they have been unable to
attend school due to illness, childbirth, or some comparable circumstance. 
With the gradual reopening of school campuses in the
2021-2022 school year, it was evident that some students would be unable or
unwilling to return to campus because of health concerns, the necessity for care
of their babies and other family members, and pandemic-related disruptions of
student lives and living arrangements.  Like most public schools in California, and as
mandated by Education Code section 51745 for school districts and county
offices of education, New Village offered students the opportunity to continue
their schooling through independent studies during this limited period.  
Funding for California public schools, including charter
schools, is primarily based on the average daily attendance (“ADA”) of
students, and the decline in attendance experienced by public schools in the
state threatens the schools’ financial stability.  Responding to this situation, in June 2022,
the Legislature appropriated $400 million dollars in emergency supplemental funding
for public schools, including charter schools.  The Legislature made Supplemental Funding
unavailable to any “charter school classified as a nonclassroom-based charter
school.”  The Legislature made this
classroom/nonclassroom distinction following reports that nonclassroom-based
charter schools provide an inferior quality of education and do not incur the
significant expenses associated with owning and operating physical facilities
for educational purposes.  These
nonclassroom-based charter schools were reaping significant profits, despite providing
inferior education.  
Despite the fact that New Village has been classified as a
site-based school by CDE, and that throughout its 17-year existence has
provided a full-day, classroom-based curriculum at its campus except during the
period of mandatory closure, CDE, under the supervision of the Superintendent,
denied New Village the benefits of that 2021-22 ADA Loss Mitigation and the
Charter Special Apportionment (“Supplemental Funding”), allocated by Assembly
Bill 181 (“AB 181”), section 123 (codified in Education Code section
42238.023(b)), by misclassifying New Village as a nonclassroom based charter
school.  
That decision was erroneous and unlawful.  New Village is and always has been a classroom-based
charter school.  The New Village Charter
states that it provides “on-site, classroom-based instruction.”  New Village is identified on CDE’s website as
a charter school with “Site-based Instruction” where the instruction is listed
as “Primarily Classroom.” CDE’s list of “Charter Schools in California
Counties” also identifies New Village as providing “[c]lassroom based
instruction (80% of annual instruction on a school site under the supervision
of an employee of the school”), and explicitly distinguishes New Village from a
“[n]on-classroom based Independent Study Site” in which “[s]tudents may be
served in contiguous counties.”  
New Village has always certified the “Type of Instruction”
at the school as “Classroom-based,” as opposed to “Nonclassroom-based” or
“Combination,” for purposes of the Principal Apportionment Data Collection
(“PADC”) system required by CDE to be used for school reporting purposes, and CDE’s
apportionment allocation to New Village has always been made on the basis that
it is a classroom-based institution.  
Respondents erroneously decided that classification of a
school is based solely on the percentage of the school’s total ADA, comprised
by classroom-based instruction as of the 2021–22 fiscal year second principal
apportionment certification (“P-2”), relying on Education Code section 47612.5.
 That section does not purport to provide
a definition of a “nonclassroom-based school.”  Rather, it provides definitions of classroom
and nonclassroom-based instruction and imposes a special apportionment
requirement for nonclassroom-based instruction.  
For that purpose, Education Code section 47612.5 provides
that “in calculating average daily attendance for classroom-based instruction
apportionments, at least 80 percent of the instructional time offered by the
charter school shall be at the school site[.]” 
Education Code section 46301 provides that computing a school’s ADA for
those purposes is done by dividing the total number of days of pupil attendance
allowed by the number of days school was actually taught in the regular day
schools of the district.  Education Code section
46303(a) provides that if “any computation of average daily attendance [ADA]
made under, or necessitated by, any provision of law, results in a fraction of
less than one-half of a unit, the average daily attendance shall be taken as
the next lowest whole number…; but if the fraction is one-half or more of a
unit, the average daily attendance shall be taken as the next highest whole
number.”  
New Village’s PADC P-2 report certified that the total
classroom-based ADA at the 2021-22 P-2 certification was 45.68, which is
rounded to 46 per Education Code section 46303.  The total regular ADA reported in that same
certification was 57.19, which is rounded to 57 per Education Code section
46303.  The result of that simple
division is 80.7%, surpassing the 80% threshold CDE claims to be determinative
of the charter school’s classification for purposes of providing Supplemental
Funding. 
Despite this statutory language on rounding and how to
calculate ADA, Respondents do not apply any rounding to calculate that figure.  Under Respondents’ erroneous form of
calculations, New Village’s classroom-based instruction was deemed to be
79.87%, allegedly missing the cutoff for Supplemental Funding by 0.13%. 
In calculating the ADA this way to deny New Village the Supplemental
Funding it is owed under law, Respondents have contravened provisions of the
Education Code enacted to prevent discrimination in the educational process
with regard to pregnant and parenting teenage mothers.  At any one time on average, a number of young
women at New Village are pregnant or parenting.  The Legislature has not only designated
pregnant and parenting teenage mothers for special treatment under the
Education Code but has mandated that “[a] pupil who is pregnant or is a parent
who is the primary caregiver for one or more of their children shall not be
counted” in determining a cap placed on eligibility for apportionment credit
for independent study.  Respondents have
taken no steps to account for the fact that a percentage of New Village’s
students are pregnant or parenting and require independent study or nonclassroom-based
instruction.  If independent study for
pregnant and parenting teen mothers was appropriately considered classroom-based
or not considered at all, New Village would far exceed the requirement for Supplemental
Funding.  
Petitioner New Village seeks a declaration that its
classification as a nonclassroom-based charter school for Supplemental Funding
purposes is erroneous.  It further seeks
a writ of mandate commanding Respondents to lawfully determine Petitioner’s
eligibility to receive Supplemental Funding in full accordance with the
Education Code and to disburse the funding due to New Village.   
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
On February 2, 2024, Respondents filed an Answer. 
 
B. Standard of Review 
            A party
may seek to set aside an agency decision by petitioning for either a writ of
administrative mandamus (CCP §1094.5) or of traditional mandamus.  CCP
§1085.  A petition for traditional mandamus is appropriate in all actions
“to compel the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty
resulting from an office, trust, or station....”  CCP §1085.   
            A
traditional writ of mandate under CCP section 1085 is the method of compelling
the performance of a legal, ministerial duty.  Pomona Police Officers’
Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 583-84. 
Generally, mandamus will lie when (1) there is no plain, speedy, and adequate
alternative remedy, (2) the respondent has a duty to perform, and (3) the
petitioner has a clear and beneficial right to performance.  Id. at
584 (internal citations omitted).  Whether a statute imposes a ministerial
duty for which mandamus is available, or a mere obligation to perform a
discretionary function, is a question of statutory interpretation.  AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health, (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 701. 
No administrative record is
required for traditional mandamus to compel performance of a ministerial
duty.  
 
C. Governing Law
Section 42238.023(b)(3) provides:
“For charter
schools, excluding a charter school classified as a nonclassroom-based
charter school as of the 2021-22 fiscal year second principal apportionment
certification pursuant to Section 47612.5, the Superintendent shall
multiply the charter school's 2021-22 fiscal year reported average daily
attendance by the amount determined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) for the
purpose of calculating the 2021-22 fiscal year annual apportionment pursuant to
Sections 42238.02 and 42238.03.” 
(emphasis added).
 
AB 181, section
123(a)(2), provides:
 
“The sum of four
hundred thirteen million dollars ($413,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the
General Fund to the Superintendent of Public Instruction for apportionment to
charter schools in the 2022–23 fiscal year, excluding charter schools
classified as nonclassroom-based charter schools as of the 2021–22 fiscal year
second principal apportionment certification pursuant to Section 47612.5 of the
Education Code.”  RJN 1,
p.198 (emphasis added).
Section 47612.5(e)(1) provides:
“Notwithstanding
any other law, and as a condition of apportionment, “classroom-based
instruction” in a charter school, for purposes of this part, occurs only when
charter school pupils are engaged in educational activities required of those
pupils and are under the immediate supervision and control of an employee of
the charter school who possesses a valid certification.  For purposes of calculating average daily
attendance for classroom-based instruction apportionments, at least
80 percent of the instructional time offered by the charter school shall
be at the schoolsite, and the charter school shall require the attendance of
all pupils for whom a classroom-based apportionment is claimed at the
schoolsite for at least 80 percent of the minimum instructional time required
to be offered pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a).” (emphasis
added).
 
“Whenever
it is necessary to compute the average daily attendance of a school of a
district for any certain purpose and no provision is made for the computation
thereof for such purpose, the average daily attendance of the school shall be
computed by dividing the total number  of
days of pupil attendance allowed by the number of days school was actually taught
in the regular day schools of the district, exclusive of Saturdays or
Sundays.”  §46301.
“If
any computation of average daily attendance made under, or necessitated by, any
provision of law, results in a fraction of less than one-half of a unit, the
average daily attendance shall be taken as the next lowest whole number, except
that if such computation results in an average daily attendance of less than
one unit, the average daily attendance shall be deemed to be one unit; but if
the fraction is one-half or more of a unit, the average daily attendance shall
be taken as the next highest whole number. 
§46303(a).
Whenever
a reference is made to a specific whole number of units of average daily
attendance said number shall include any fraction above said number which is
less than one-half a unit, and any fraction of one-half or more above a unit
above the next lowest whole number.”  §46303(b).
 
D. Statement of Facts[1]
1. Stipulated
Facts
a. The Parties
Respondent CDE is a California state agency that administers
the state’s public education system, primarily grades K-12. CDE is headed by an
elected State Superintendent of Public Instruction and Director of Education
(Respondent Tony Thurmond). JSF 1.
Among other responsibilities, CDE is responsible for
determining each charter school’s eligibility for funding and for disbursing
the correct amount of funds to each entitled school. JSF 2.
New Village is a non-profit high school chartered by LAUSD since
2006, with a campus at 147 N. Occidental Blvd. in the Rampart neighborhood of
Los Angeles.  New Village is the first
single-gender public charter school in California with a mission to serve
extremely high-risk young women.  It
provides academic instruction each year in grades 9-12.  JSF 3.
New Village is a Dashboard Alternative School Status school
with over 70% of its students falling within the “high risk” categories for not
completing high school, as defined by CDE. JSF 4.
New Village’s charter provides that instruction will be
“on-site, classroom-based instruction, for grades 9-12 over at least 180
instructional days annually.”  JSF 5, Ex.
A. 
 
b. Factual Background 
CDE maintains a school directory on its website, which
includes information that is self-reported by local educational agencies,
including New Village. The directory contains a disclaimer that information
should not be relied upon for any purpose because it may be outdated or contain
inaccuracies.  In part, New Village’s
page on CDE’s website lists the school as a charter school with “primarily
classroom” instruction.  JSF 7, Ex.
B.  
CDE also maintains a web page entitled “Charter Schools in
California Counties.” New Village is listed in white cells under the name “New
Village Girls Academy” and has “Site-based Instruction”. CDE’s web page
provides a key to the shading of cells in the table –"white” is listed as
“classroom based instruction (80% of annual instruction on a school site under
the supervision of an employee of the school),” while “light pink” is listed as
“Nonclassroom based Independent Study Site.”  JSF 7, Ex. C.
Respondents require schools to self-report and certify
certain attendance information using the PADC system.  PADC requires schools to report the type of
instruction it provides as “Classroom-based,” “Nonclassroom-based,” or
“Combination.” PADC also requires schools to report “Classroom-based ADA” and
“Nonclassroom-based ADA.”  ADA totals are
generated using inputs from schools, like New Village, as required by CDE.  PADC only accepts numbers with the maximum of
two decimal places for reporting ADA but whole numbers can be input by entering
two zeros in the decimal places, assuming that the inputs are accurate to two
decimal places.  JSF 8.
Funding for California public schools, including charter
schools, is calculated based on ADA.  JSF
9.
In June 2022, the California Legislature passed, and the
Governor signed, AB 181, which appropriated $413 million in emergency supplemental
funding for public schools (including charter schools) following the COVID-19
pandemic, termed 2021-22 ADA Loss Mitigation and Charter Special Apportionment
(“Supplemental Funding”).  §42238.023; AB
181, §123. This Supplemental Funding was to be allocated by CDE to charter
schools pursuant to the requirements of section 42238.023, which “exclude[es] a
charter school classified as a nonclassroom-based charter school as of the
2021– 22 fiscal year second principal apportionment certification pursuant to
Section 47612.5 of the Education Code.” CDE authorized payment of Supplemental
Funding to schools in February 2023.  JSF
10.
In email correspondence dated January 10, 2023, Respondents
classified New Village as a “nonclassroom-based charter school and stated that nonclassroom-based
“status is determined by the percentage of [nonclassroom-based] average daily
attendance (ADA) reported at a specific point in time.” Respondents took the
position that New Village “did not meet the threshold of a classroom-based
charter school at the 2021-22 P-2 Apportionment certification” and denied
Supplemental Funding to it.  JSF 13, Ex.
D.  
Respondents also stated that “CDE does not compute ADA” and
that “ADA is typically reported by a local educational agency to two decimal
places, according to the forms and instructions prescribed by the
Superintendent pursuant to Section 41601.” Respondents stated that the
“reported ADA is used as reported and is not rounded to the whole number by the
CDE for purposes of any funding calculations.”  JSF 14, Ex. E.
New Village reported its classroom-based ADA as 45.68 and
its nonclassroom-based ADA as 11.51 on PADC as of the 2021-22 P-2 Apportionment
certification.  Petitioner’s total ADA—
the sum of the classroom-based ADA and nonclassroom-based ADA—was 57.19.  JSF 15, Ex. F. 
Respondents have calculated that, with no rounding, New
Village’s percent of classroom-based ADA is 79.87% (45.68/57.19).  JSF 16.
 
c. Procedural Background 
On or about January 2, 2023, New Village corresponded with
Respondents regarding eligibility for Supplemental Funding.  JSF 17, Ex. G.
On or about January 10, 2023, Respondents replied that New
Village was classified as a nonclassroom-based charter school and ineligible
for Supplemental Funding.  CDE calculated
that New Village’s nonclassroom-based ADA exceeded 20%.  It did not include the percentage of
classroom-based ADA.  JSF 18, Ex. D.
On or about March 14, 2023, New Village wrote to Respondents
requesting a meeting relating to its classification as a nonclassroom-based
charter school and its ineligibility for Supplemental Funding.  JSF 19, Ex. H.
On or about April 18, 2023, New Village met with members of
CDE via web conference to discuss the issues presented in prior correspondence.
 JSF 20.
On or about May 10, 2023, Respondents sent a letter again
stating their position regarding funding eligibility.  JSF 21, Ex. E.
On or about July 20, 2023, New Village presented a timely
governmental claim to Respondents.  JSF 22,
Ex. I.  Respondents failed or refused to
act on the governmental claim within 45 days of the claim being presented and
was “deemed to have been rejected” on or about September 5, 2025, per Govt.
Code section 912.4.  JSF 23.
 
d. Summary of Dispute 
New Village contends that the term “nonclassroom-based
charter school” should be interpreted in accordance with its plain meaning --
that is, a school in which nonclassroom-based instruction is the central or
primary mode of teaching, and New Village has never been such a school.  Respondents contend that the definition of
“nonclassroom-based charter school” is the same as the definition
“nonclassroom-based instruction” for present purposes.  JSF 26.
New Village contends that even under Respondents’
interpretation, it is entitled to Supplemental Funding because its
classroom-based ADA for the pertinent period was or exceeded 80%.  New Village contends that, if rounded to a
whole number prior to division, its percentage of classroom-based ADA is 80.7%
(46/57).  Respondents contend that New
Village is not entitled to Supplemental Funding because its classroom-based ADA
for the pertinent period was less than 80%.  JSF 27.
If New Village is correct, the amount of Supplemental
Funding due from Respondents is $214,868 in state funds, and $41,079 in in-lieu
of property taxes transfers from New Village’s sponsoring local educational
agency.  JSF 28.
 
2. New Village’s Evidence 
            a. Background           
            New Village is a public charter
school that provides an individualized, high quality academic and social
program to approximately 110 students each year in grades 9-12.  Aguirre Decl., ¶2.  New Village opened in 2006 as the first
single-gender public charter school created under the Charter Schools Act and
was designed to serve a high-needs population of young women, many of whom are
at high risk of not completing high school. 
Aguirre Decl., ¶2.   
            The school serves women students,
ages 14 to 21, who have experienced hardship at home or at school.  Aguirre Decl., ¶4.  Many of these women students have experienced
previous failure or problems at other schools. 
Aguirre Decl., ¶4.  Many have also
been irregular in attendance or have previously dropped out of school.  Aguirre Decl., ¶4.  
The New Village campus
is located on approximately 9,330 square feet, which includes a large external
courtyard and meeting area.  Aguirre
Decl., ¶3.  The campus has administrative
offices and meeting spaces, together with nine classrooms, amounting to
approximately 6,300 square feet of teaching facilities that are used by
students and teachers on a daily basis during the school week.  Aguirre Decl., ¶3.  Each classroom is equipped with student and
teacher desks, monitors, laptops, bookshelves, and teaching supplies specific
to each subject.  Aguirre Decl., ¶3.  
            New Village is and has always been a
site-based school under the terms of its LAUSD charter and in the operation of
the school.  Aguirre Decl., ¶7.  It’s classification as a site-based school
has never changed.  Aguirre Decl., ¶7.  New Village has always certified that it is a
“Classroom-based” school in the PADC system required to be used for reporting
purposes.  Aguirre Decl., ¶9.  The apportionment allocation to New Village
has always been made on the basis that it is a classroom-based institution.  Aguirre Decl., ¶9.  
 
            b. COVID-19 Closure and
Independent Study 
            During the COVID-19 pandemic and
state of emergency, New Village maintained its faculty-student ratio of one
fully credentialed teacher for every ten students.  Aguirre Decl., ¶11.  New Village also provided support for
students including home visits, delivery of essential supplies, and mental
health and counseling, in addition to a full curriculum via distance learning
during this time.  Aguirre Decl.,
¶11.  
            Except for the period of school
closure during the COVID-19 pandemic, and as mandated by law, independent study
has never been a material part of the New Village instructional program.  Aguirre Decl., ¶12.  Independent study has been offered only on a
temporary basis, when needed, for those unable to attend school in person due
to illness, pregnancy, childbirth, or another comparable circumstance.  Aguirre Decl., ¶12.  
 
            c. Public Charter School
Funding and ADA 
The decline in in-person
attendance during the COVID-19 pandemic threatened New Village’s financial
stability.  Aguirre Decl., ¶13. 
A major portion of
charter school funding is based on ADA. 
Aguirre Decl., ¶13.  PADC requires
figures be reported to two decimal places, will not accept letters or
characters, and will not allow numbers that do not report to two decimal
places.  Aguirre Decl., ¶9.  Though certain values are explicitly
instructed to be rounded up to the next whole number, there is nothing in the
PADC instructions that permits rounding values relating to ADA to the nearest
whole number.  Aguirre Decl., ¶9.  
At the 2021-22 P-2 certification,
New Village reported classroom-based ADA of 45.68 and total regular ADA of
57.19, as required by the PADC.  Aguirre
Decl., ¶14.  New Village does not
independently calculate the percentage of ADA that is classroom-based or
nonclassroom-based.  Aguirre Decl.,
¶14.  
            If New Village were required to
calculate the percentage of classroom-based ADA by rounding the inputs to the
nearest whole number -- 46 for classroom-based ADA and 57 for total regular ADA
-- the calculated percentage would be 80.70% or 81%, if also rounded.  Aguirre Decl., ¶15.  If the figure was determined by dividing the
classroom-based ADA of 45.68 and dividing it by the total regular ADA of 57.19,
this calculation yields a 79.87% classroom-based ADA percentage, which, when
rounded, yields 80%.  Aguirre Decl.,
¶15.  
            On or about January 2, 2023, New
Village contacted Respondents to inquire about the Supplemental Funding.  Aguirre Decl., ¶17.  Respondents responded that New Village was
ineligible to receive Supplemental Funding because it was classified as a
nonclassroom-based charter school for these purposes.  Aguirre Decl., ¶18.  Respondents indicated that nonclassroom-based
status was determined by the percentage of nonclassroom-based ADA reported at
the P-2 certification and that New Village’s percentage did not meet the
threshold of a classroom-based charter school at the P-2 certification.  Aguirre Decl., ¶18.  
            On or about March 14, 2023, New
Village submitted a letter to Respondents outlining its position.  Aguirre Decl., ¶19.  New Village explained that its LAUSD charter,
certifications, general attributes as a site-based institution, and attendance
calculations all qualified New Village as a classroom-based charter school.  Aguirre Decl., ¶19.  New Village also highlighted that the
classroom-based charter school calculation should be calculated using
classroom-based ADA, not by taking the inverse of nonclassroom-based ADA.  Aguirre Decl., ¶19.  New Village also noted that the Education
Code requires ADA calculations to be rounded but PADC does not perform or allow
for rounding.  Aguirre Decl., ¶19.  
            On or about April 18, 2023, New
Village met with Respondents via teleconference to present its position.  Aguirre Decl., ¶20.  On or about May 10, 2023, Respondents
responded in correspondence that reiterated New Village was classified as a nonclassroom-based
charter school based on less than 80% classroom-based ADA.  Aguirre Decl., ¶21.  Respondents indicated that they do not
compute ADA at all.  Aguirre Decl.,
¶21.  
On or about July 20,
2023, New Village filed a government claim against Respondents.  Aguirre Decl., ¶22.  Respondents failed or refused to act on the
claim within 45 days of the claim being presented.  Aguirre Decl., ¶22.   
 
            2. Respondents’ Evidence 
            In 2022, the Legislature passed AB
181, which included the 2021-2022 ADA Loss Mitigation and 2021-22 Charter
School Declining Enrollment Relief. 
Heredia Decl., ¶2.  This funding was
appropriated for schools with declines in attendance and enrollment in the
2021-22 fiscal year.  Heredia Decl.,
¶2.  AB 181 included language which
excluded charter schools classified as nonclassroom-based as of the 2021-22
fiscal year second principal apportionment. 
Heredia Decl., ¶3.  
            In January 2023, CDE was contacted
by New Village because it had been informed by its chartering authority, LAUSD,
that it was classified as nonclassroom-based as a result of the ADA reported in
the second principal apportionment. 
Heredia Decl., ¶4.  CDE confirmed
that the ADA reported by New Village reflected that the school had provided
less than 80% of its instruction at the school site and was therefore
classified as nonclassroom-based for the 2021-22 fiscal year.  Heredia Decl., ¶4.  
            New Village challenged the
classification and insisted that CDE had to round the reported ADA.  Heredia Decl., ¶5.  The CDE disagreed, noting that the
classification pursuant to section 47612.5 was not a “computation of ADA.”  Heredia Decl., ¶5.  CDE also let New Village know that even if the
numbers were rounded, it would not change its classification.  Heredia Decl., ¶5.  It is not uncommon for charter schools to
report increased or decreased classroom-based instruction and be deemed
classroom-based or nonclassroom-based one year and not the next year.  Heredia Decl., ¶6.  
            CDE maintains a charter school
locator, which lists approved charter schools across California.  Park Decl., ¶4.  The list is based on the information
submitted by the charter school at the time the charter school is authorized
and is not verified by CDE.  Park Decl.,
¶4.  The list is not used for purposes of
funding but is offered as an aid to the public looking for charter schools.  Park Decl., ¶4.  The spreadsheet uses pink shading to
differentiate those charter schools which operate a full or predominantly
nonclassroom based model of instruction, while those not shaded in pink include
school that are both site-based and a combination of site-based and independent
study.  Park Decl., ¶4.  
Charter schools
classified as nonclassroom-based for funding purposes must submit a funding
determination to the State Board of Education (“SBE”) to receive funding for
the nonclassroom-based instruction the school provides.  Park Decl., ¶2.  New Village submitted a funding determination
as a nonclassroom-based school for the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 fiscal
years.  Park Decl., ¶3.  The funding determination was heard and
approved at the May 2022 SBE meeting. 
Park Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.  
 
            3. Reply Evidence      
            a. Submission of Nonclassroom-Based
Funding Request 
            On or about August 13, 2021, CDE
published guidance alerting charter schools that “a funding determination is
required to receive Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) funding” for
nonclassroom-based ADA “if [a charter school’s] classroom-based ADA falls below
the 80 percent minimum.”  Quiñones Decl.,
 ¶3, Ex. A.
            The August 13 letter advised that,
given the uncertainties of the COVID-19 pandemic, charter schools “may obtain a
funding determination to ensure against LCFF funding impacts should they
unexpectedly fall below the 80 percent [classroom-based] minimum.”  Quiñones Decl.,  ¶4.  CDE
did not require charter schools to be classified as nonclassroom-based in order
to file a Funding Request or to obtain a precautionary funding determination in
circumstances where schools did not know how students would react in returning
to school facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Quiñones Decl., ¶4.  Because CDE expected “some schools may see an
unanticipated demand for additional independent study” due to the COVID-19
pandemic, it advised charter schools that they should take that into
consideration “when evaluating whether to seek a funding determination to avoid
any potential future fiscal impacts.” 
Quiñones Decl.,  ¶4, Ex. A.  
            Based on this guidance from CDE and
the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic, New Village submitted such a
Funding Request in February 2022 as an alternative if its figures fell below
the required threshold.  Quiñones
Decl.,  ¶5.  Given that ADA figures were not available for
2021-2022 P2 period at the time of the Funding Request, New Village could only
provide possible estimates of total ADA, as requested by CDE.  Quiñones Decl.,  ¶5.  The
Funding Request was submitted as a precaution. 
Quiñones Decl.,  ¶5.  
            Subsequently, when CDE made clear
that it classified New Village as a nonclassroom-based charter school that was ineligible
for Supplemental Funding, New Village made its position clear in written
correspondence, in a meeting, and in a governmental claim that it was a
classroom-based charter school entitled to the Supplemental Funding.  Quiñones Decl., ¶6.  
            
            b. LAUSD’s Role
            LAUSD is the chartering authority
for New Village.  Quiñones Decl.,  ¶8.  LAUSD
does not make determinations whether a charter school is nonclassroom-based for
funding determination requests.  Quiñones
Decl.,  ¶8.  
            LAUSD requires classroom-based
charter schools that become classified as nonclassroom-based charter schools to
make a material revision to their charter. 
Quiñones Decl.,  ¶9.  New Village has never been classified as a
nonclassroom-based school by LAUSD. 
Quiñones Decl.,  ¶9.  
            New Village reports certain
attendance data to LAUSD on a monthly basis, including ADA, but LAUSD does not
make ADA computations or funding determinations.  Quiñones Decl.,  ¶10.  
            On or about August 19, 2021, LAUSD
alerted charter schools that a charter school “must monitor its ADA to
determine whether the charter school will begin offering ‘nonclassroom based
instruction’” and that a material revision to its existing charter would be
required if the charter school would be adding a nonclassroom-based program.  Quiñones Decl.,  ¶11, Ex. B. 
 
            c. Expert Opinion
            Ronnie Barnes ("Barnes")
specializes in financial, accounting, and economic analysis.  Barnes Decl., 
¶1, Ex. A.  Barnes was retained by
the law firm of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, 
on behalf of New Village, to provide an expert opinion based on his
education and training as a mathematician. 
Barnes Decl., ¶1.  
To the extent that the
calculations in Paragraphs 4 and 16 of the Joint Stipulation comprise a
“computation of average daily attendance made under, or necessitated by, any
provision of law” and the “rounding provisions” of section 46303 apply, New
Village’s percentage of classroom-based ADA would be calculated as the ratio of
45.68 rounded up to 46 and 57.19 rounded down to 57 -- i.e., 46/57, or
80.70%.  Barnes Decl., ¶7.  
“Roundoff error” is “the
difference between an approximation of a number used in computation and its
exact value.”  Barnes Decl.,  ¶7.  In
certain types of computation, roundoff error can be magnified as any initial
errors are carried through one or more intermediate steps”.  In other words, the earlier rounding is
performed, the larger the roundoff error potentially is.  Barnes Decl., 
¶8.  It is well known that a
manifestation of roundoff error is that percentages that would add to 100%
without rounding may not do so with rounding. 
Barnes Decl., ¶9.  
Respondents observe that
“[i]f the ADA numbers submitted by New Village were rounded, the
classroom-based ADA would be rounded up from 45.68 to 46, and the
nonclassroom-based ADA would be rounded up from 11.51 to 12, resulting in a
final total ADA of 58.”  Barnes
Decl.,  ¶10.  Barnes sees no mathematical justification for
the final step.  Barnes Decl., ¶10.  
From a mathematical
perspective, if the objective of rounding is to make a number “‘easier’ to use
or understand whilst also keeping [it] close to its original value,” the most
appropriate approach would be to round only at the final stage—in other words,
to calculate the unrounded value of Petitioner’s percent of classroom-based ADA
at 79.87% and only then to round.  Barnes
Decl., ¶11.  
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner New Village seeks
mandamus directing Respondent CDE[2] to
lawfully determine its eligibility to receive Supplemental Funding as a
classroom-based charter school. 
 
1.
Statutory Interpretation
This
case involves issues of statutory interpretation.  In construing a statute, a court must
ascertain the intent of the legislature so as to effectuate the purpose of the
law.  Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co.,
(1989) 48 Cal.3d 711, 724.  The court
first looks to the language of the statute, attempting to give effect to the
usual, ordinary import of the language and seeking to avoid making any language
mere surplusage.  Id.  Significance, if possible, is attributed to
every word, phrase, sentence and part of an act in pursuance of the legislative
purpose.   Orange County Employees
Assn. v. County of Orange, (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 833, 841.  The statutory language must be harmonized
with provisions relating to the same subject matter to the extent
possible.  Id.  “’The
statute's words generally provide the most reliable indicator of legislative
intent; if they are clear and unambiguous, ‘[t]here is no need for judicial
construction and a court may not indulge in it. [Citation.]’” MCI
Communications Services, Inc. v. California Dept. of Tax & Fee
Administration, (“MCI”) (2018) 28 Cal. App. 5th 635, 643.
            If
a statute is ambiguous and susceptible to more than one reasonable
interpretation, the court may resort to extrinsic aids, including principles of
construction and legislative history.  MacIsaac v. Waste Management Collection
& Recycling, Inc., (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1082 (quoting Riverview Fire Protection Dist. v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd.,
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1120, 1126).  Where
ambiguity still remains, the court should consider “reason, practicality, and
common sense.”  Id. at 1084.  This requires consideration of the statute’s
purpose, the evils to be remedied, public policy, and contemporaneous
administrative construction.  MCI,
supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at
643.  The enactment must be given a
reasonable and commonsense interpretation consistent with the apparent purpose
and intent of the lawmakers, practical rather than technical in nature, and
which, when applied, will result in wise policy rather than mischief or
absurdity.  Lungren v. Deukmejian,
(1988) 45 Cal. 3d 727, 735.  Finally,
statutes are not construed in isolation and every statute must be read and
harmonized with the statutory scheme.  People
v. Ledesma, (1997) 16 Cal.4th 90, 95.
2. The
Classification of a Charter School Under Section 42238.023(b)
Section
42238.023(b)(3) provides:
“For charter schools, excluding a charter school
classified as a nonclassroom-based charter school as of the 2021-22 fiscal year
second principal apportionment certification pursuant to Section 47612.5,
the Superintendent shall multiply the charter school's 2021-22 fiscal year
reported average daily attendance by the amount determined in paragraph (3) of
subdivision (a) for the purpose of calculating the 2021-22 fiscal year annual
apportionment pursuant to Sections 42238.02 and 42238.03.”  (emphasis added).
 
AB 181 section 123(a)(2) provides:
 
“The sum of four hundred thirteen million dollars
($413,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the
Superintendent of Public Instruction for apportionment to charter schools in
the 2022–23 fiscal year, excluding charter schools classified as
nonclassroom-based charter schools as of the 2021–22 fiscal year second
principal apportionment certification pursuant to Section 47612.5 of the
Education Code.”  RJN 1,
p.198 (emphasis added).
 
Section 47612.5(e)(1) provides:
“Notwithstanding any other law, and as a condition of
apportionment, “classroom-based instruction” in a charter school, for purposes
of this part, occurs only when charter school pupils are engaged in educational
activities required of those pupils and are under the immediate supervision and
control of an employee of the charter school who possesses a valid
certification.  For purposes of
calculating average daily attendance for classroom-based instruction
apportionments, at least 80 percent of the instructional time offered by
the charter school shall be at the schoolsite, and the charter school shall
require the attendance of all pupils for whom a classroom-based apportionment
is claimed at the schoolsite for at least 80 percent of the minimum instructional
time required to be offered pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a).”  (emphasis added).
 
New Village argues
that the issues are clear and straightforward. 
Respondents cannot dispute that section 42238.023(b) created a ministerial
duty for CDE to distribute Supplemental Funding to charter schools that are not
“classified as a nonclassroom-based charter school” -- i.e., are
classified as classroom-based charter schools. 
 Accordingly, the principal question is whether
CDE erroneously interpreted section 42238.023(b)’s
phrase “classified as a nonclassroom-based charter school” to apply to New
Village.  Pet. Op. Br. at 8; Reply at 3.
This statutory
interpretation is a legal question for which CDE is not entitled to any
deference.  The phrase “classified as a
nonclassroom-based charter school” is not defined in the Education Code and therefore should be
interpreted in accordance with its plain meaning and common usage.  “When a term goes undefined in a statute, we
give the term its ordinary meaning.”  De Vries v. Regents of University of California,
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 574, 590-91.  See
In re Establishment of Eureka
Reporter, (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 891, 897 (relying on the “plain and
commonsense meaning” of term not defined in statute).  Pet. Op. Br. at 9; Reply at 4.
Any plain meaning
of the phrase “classified as a nonclassroom-based charter school” does not
encompass New Village.  The New Village
Charter (approved by the LAUSD Board) states that it provides “on-site,
classroom-based instruction.”  JSF 5, Ex. A, p.18.  To this day, New Village is identified on
CDE’s website as a charter school with “Site-based Instruction” that is listed
as “Primarily Classroom.”  JSF 6-7, Exs. B, C.  CDE’s list of “Charter Schools in California
Counties” identifies New Village as providing “[c]lassroom based instruction”
and distinguishes it from a “[n]on-classroom based Independent Study Site” in
which “[s]tudents may be served in contiguous counties.”  JSF 7, Ex.
C.  New Village has always certified its “Type
of Instruction” for reporting purposes as “Classroom-based,” as opposed to
“Nonclassroom-based” or “Combination,” and CDE’s apportionment allocation to
New Village has always been made on the basis that it is a classroom-based
institution.  JSF 8, Ex. F, p.57; Aguirre Decl., ¶9.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9; Reply at 4-5.
New
Village contends that the only judicial usage of the phrase “nonclassroom-based
charter school” is inconsistent with CDE’s attempt to apply it to New
Village.  See J.J. MacIntyre Co. v. Duren (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d Supp. 16, 18 (noting relevance of prior “appellate court decisions
interpreting similar terms” “for the definition and application of [undefined
statutory] terms”).  Pet. Op. Br. at 9-10;
Reply at 6-7.
In
Anderson Union High School District v.
Secondary Home School, (“Anderson”) (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 262, 268,
the court considered a school’s argument that certain statutory geographical restrictions
applied only to classroom-based charter schools, not to nonclassroom-based
charter schools.  Id. at 276.  The court note that the school was a
“nonclassroom-based charter school” that had been chartered by the school
district to use “an individualized learning model which consists of a
combination of (1) homeschooling, (2) optional group classes, (3) online
courses, (4) student driven electives, (5) concurrent enrollment at a campus
site of the authorizing school district, and (6) college level courses.”  Id.
at 268-69.  The
school did not have any classrooms—just three “resource centers” that provided
space for tutoring, “computer and science labs, and student work spaces.”  Id. at 269.  A student was only required to “meet with his
or her facilitator at least once every 20 days, with a parent or guardian in
attendance,” and the resource centers were only open a few days a week.  See id.  The Anderson court held that the
geographical restrictions of the Charter School Act applied to all charter
schools, including nonclassroom-based charter schools.  Id. at 283.  
New
Village argues that it is nothing like the school in Anderson.  It is a campus-based school with
classrooms, teachers, and an expectation that students come to class each day
to learn.  See Aguirre Decl., ¶3.  The school campus covers over 9,300 square
feet, which includes a large external courtyard and meeting area and
approximately 6,3000 square feet of teaching facilities.  Id.  New Village has nine classroom equipped with
student desks, a monitor/screen, a teacher’s desk, a set of laptops,
bookshelves, books, and subject-specific teaching supplies.  Id.  The campus includes a counseling office,
which hosts the school psychologist, and a student support office, which houses
the school’s academic counselor, internships coordinator, community school
coordinator, case manager, and enrollment and outreach coordinator.  Id.  In-person attendance is expected, and
independent studies are offered only on a temporary basis for those unable to
attend school in person due to illness, pregnancy, childbirth, or other
comparable circumstance.  Aguirre Decl., ¶12.  The
fact that New Village offers an independent study program does not detract from
the fact that it offers an entirely schoolsite-based curriculum.  Quiñones
Decl., ¶12.   Under any commonly used
understanding of the phrase “classroom-based charter school,” New Village is
included.  Pet. Op. Br. at 10-11; Reply
at 7.
CDE
correctly responds (Opp. at 4) that whether a charter school is nonclassroom-based
is determined by the percentage of instruction occurring remotely, not the charter
school’s self-identification.  Section
42238.023 and AB 181 section 123 reference section 47612.5 for the determination
whether a charter school is “nonclassroom based” as of the 2021-22 fiscal year P-2
certification.  The Legislature frequently
has referred to the classification of charter schools as nonclassroom-based through
a section 47612.5 determination.  See,
e.g., §§ 42238.024(c)(1), 43521(c)(1), 46211(g)(1),
47605(a)(5)(D)(ii), 47612.7, 51747(j)(2). 
AB 181 and section 42238.023 must be read and interpreted through their
reference to section 47612.5.  Banerjee
v. Superior Court, (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 1093, 1113 (various parts of
statutory scheme should be harmonized).  
  As reflected in section 47612.5, a
nonclassroom-based charter school for purposes of funding is one that does not
qualify as classroom-based due to the percentage of pupils receiving
instruction through independent study.  Section
47612.5 defines “classroom-based instruction” as a circumstance where more than
80% of instruction is offered at the schoolsite and under the immediate
supervision and control of a certificated employee of the charter school.  §47612.5(e)(1).  “Nonclassroom-based instruction” is defined
as a circumstance where instruction does not meet the 80% requirement in subdivision
(e)(1).  §47612.5(e)(2).  
The
determination whether a charter school is classroom-based or nonclassroom-based
for funding purposes is made on an annual basis, based on the charter school’s
certified ADA at the P-2 certification. 
Heredia Decl., ¶7.  The charter
school reports both its site-based ADA and its independent study ADA.  If the percentage of pupils receiving
independent study exceeds 20%, the school is classified as nonclassroom-based
for that fiscal year.  Section 42238.023
and section 123 of AB 181 exclude those charter schools classified as
nonclassroom-based based on the 2021-22 second principal apportionment,
regardless of how those schools were classified in the fiscal year before or
after.  It is not uncommon under section
47612.5 for the classification of a charter school to move from year-to-year between
classroom-based and nonclassroom-based, as the percentage of pupils receiving
instruction through independent study increases or decreases.  Heredia Decl., ¶6.  
New
Village’s argument that it has always identified as classroom-based, and
therefore is eligible for the Supplemental Funding, is not controlling for the
determination whether the school properly was classified as nonclassroom-based in
the 2021-22 fiscal year.[3]  If the determination were made solely based
on how a charter school identifies, there would be no need for the calculations
pursuant to section 47612.5.  Section
47612.5’s language concerning the determination whether a charter school is classified
as nonclassroom-based for purposes of apportionment cannot be ignored as mere
surplusage but rather defines what a “nonclassroom-based charter school” is for
purposes of this funding.  See State
of South Dakota v. Brown, (1978) 20 Cal.3d 765, 776-77 (cardinal rule
of construction is to avoid surplusage). 

New
Village replies that none of the provisions incorporating section 47612.5,
including section 42238.023, define
the operative phrase “classified as a nonclassroom-based charter school”.  Section 47612.5(e)(1) defines when
classroom-based instruction occurs -- i.e., when charter school pupils
are engaged in educational activities required of those pupils and are under
the immediate supervision and control of an employee of the charter school who
possesses a valid certification.  It then
provides a long explanation of what is required of a charter school “[f]or
purposes of calculating average daily attendance for classroom-based
instruction apportionments.” – i.e., at least 80% of instruction is
offered at the schoolsite and under the immediate supervision and control of a
certificated employee of the charter school. 
§47612.5(e)(1).   Reply at 4.
New
Village argues that, while section 47612.5(e)(1) states that its purpose is for
calculating ADA for classroom-based
instruction apportionment, CDE insists that section 47612.5 “determines what
percentage of ADA reported by the charter
school was for instruction at the schoolsite…versus the percentage of certified
ADA for independent study.”  Opp. at
7.  From there, CDE jumps to the
conclusion that this percentage also somehow “determine[s] if a charter school
[is] classified as nonclassroom-based.”  Opp. at
5.  Yet, there is nothing in section 47612.5
regarding classification.  Reply at 4.
New
Village’s argument ignores section 42238.023(b)(3) and AB 181 section 123(a)(2),
both of which describe the section 47612.5 determination as the classification
of a charter school: “excluding a charter school classified as a
nonclassroom-based charter school as of the 2021-22 fiscal year second
principal apportionment certification pursuant to Section 47612.5.”
(emphasis added).  Section 47612.5’s
determination can only be reasonably interpreted as setting forth the procedure
for classifying a charter school as nonclassroom-based or classroom-based for
purposes of apportionment.  Pursuant to
the statute, this classification is based on a calculation of ADA through a
determination of the percentage of instructional time offered by the charter
school at the school site, and at least 80% of the instructional time must be
offered at the schoolsite for a charter school to be classified as
classroom-based.[4]
In
reply, New Village argues that, if section 47612.5 creates a classification
system, it does so by evaluating what percent of “instructional time offered
by [a] charter school” is offered at the schoolsite.  §47612.5(e)(1)
(emphasis added).  CDE’s interpretation conflates
“time offered” with “ADA” and this
interpretation is contrary to the plain wording of the statute.  ADA is a
measure of how many students attend school each day.  See, e.g., tit. 5, Cal. Code Regs. §11960 (“‘Regular average
daily attendance’ shall be computed by dividing a charter school’s total number
of pupil-days of attendance by the number of calendar days on which school was
actually taught in the charter school.”). 
As its name implies, ADA is a measure of attendance.  The amount of instructional time offered
is a different measurement.  The Education Code strictly mandates how many
minutes and days of instruction must be offered by a school.  See, e.g., §47612.5(a) (64,800 minutes);
§46200 (180 days).  The definition of “offered” is “to make
available” (merriam-webster.com/dictionary) or “presenting something for
acceptance” (Black’s Law Dictionary). 
The Education Code acknowledges
this distinction in, for example, section 47634.2
where it distinguishes the “offering [of] nonclassroom-based instruction” from
“the portion of [ADA] that is generated
through nonclassroom-based instruction.” 
§47634.2(c) (emphasis added).  Reply at 5-6.
New
Village argues that the essential question under section 47612.5 is whether at least 80%
of the instruction time “ma[de] available” by a charter school is at the
schoolsite.  New Village offers
all required instructional time in classrooms on a campus with in-person
teachers.  Quiñones Decl., ¶¶ 12-15; Aguirre Decl., ¶¶
3, 8.  Because “at least 80 percent of
the instructional time offered by [New Village]” is “at the schoolsite, and
[New Village] require[s] the attendance of all pupils… at the schoolsite for at
least 80 percent of the minimum instructional time required to be offered” by
the state, it is a classroom-based charter school pursuant to section 47612.5(e)(1).  Reply at 7.
This argument suffers from a procedural defect that it is
made for the first time in reply and is waived. 
New evidence/issues raised for the first time in
a reply brief are not properly presented to a trial court and may be
disregarded.  Regency Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina
Lances, Inc., (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.  
New Village’s argument also is substantively
erroneous.  First, it ignores the
temporal issue.  Section 42238.023(b)(3) and
AB 181 require that the classroom-based determination be made for the 2021-22
P-2 certification, not a general requirement of 80% instructional time for an
undefined period.  New Village must show
that it offered 80% of instructional time at the schoolsite during the 2021-22
P-2 certification.  See §47612.5(e)(1).
Second, it is true that section
47612.5(e)(1) refers to the instructional time offered, not ADA, but it
requires the “offer” to be backed by the charter school’s requirement of
attendance at the schoolsite for all pupils for whom a classroom-based
apportionment is claimed.  In other
words, section 47612.5(e)(1) requires that, for purposes of calculating the ADA
for classroom-based instruction apportionment, at least 80% of the
instructional time be offered and required in the classroom.   CDE does conflate “time offered” with “ADA”
but New Village fails to show this was an error.  If 80% of the instructional time must occur in
the classroom, then it is acceptable to make this determination based on 80% ADA
in the classroom.

In
sum, section 42238.023(b) created a ministerial duty for CDE to distribute Supplemental
Funding to charter schools not “classified as a nonclassroom-based charter
school” -- i.e., classroom-based charter schools -- as of the 2021-22
fiscal year P-2 certification.  The classification
is performed annually, and eligibility for Supplemental Funding depends on the
classification for the 2021-22 P-2 certification, regardless of how those
schools were classified in the fiscal year before or after.  Heredia Decl., ¶6.  The means of classifying a charter school for
purposes of Supplemental Funding is set forth in section 4612.5(e)(1) and is
performed by calculating the ADA for classroom-based instruction as a
percentage of total ADA.
 
3.
The Calculation of Classroom-Based Instruction for New Village
“Whenever
it is necessary to compute the average daily attendance of a school of a
district for any certain purpose and no provision is made for the computation
thereof for such purpose, the average daily attendance of the school shall be
computed by dividing the total number  of
days of pupil attendance allowed by the number of days school was actually
taught in the regular day schools of the district, exclusive of Saturdays or
Sundays.”  §46301.
“If
any computation of average daily attendance made under, or necessitated by, any
provision of law, results in a fraction of less than one-half of a unit, the
average daily attendance shall be taken as the next lowest whole number, except
that if such computation results in an average daily attendance of less than
one unit, the average daily attendance shall be deemed to be one unit; but if
the fraction is one-half or more of a unit, the average daily attendance shall
be taken as the next highest whole number. 
§46303(a).[5]
New
Village argues that CDE miscalculated the percent of its classroom-based
instruction.  Section 47612.5 provides that, “[f]or purposes
of calculating [ADA] for classroom-based
instruction apportionments, at least 80 percent of the instructional time
offered by the charter school shall be at the schoolsite.”  To determine the percent of instruction time
offered at the school site, CDE divided New Village’s reported classroom-based
ADA by its reported total ADA (classroom-based and nonclassroom-based ADA). 
New Village reports its ADAs using the PADC system required by CDE.  JSF ¶8. 
PADC requires ADA to be input
accurately to two decimal places.  JSF ¶8; Aguirre Decl., ¶9.  Pet. Op. Br. at 11.
Although
PADC requires schools to report their computed ADA
to the hundredths decimal place, section
46303(a) requires that “any computation of [ADA]
made under, or necessitated by, any provision of law . . . shall be”
rounded to a whole number.  Because New
Village’s computed ADAs were—as required by CDE’s mandated system—not reported
as whole numbers without decimal places, CDE was required to round those
reported ADAs before calculating the percent of instruction time offered at the
school site.  It is undisputed that New
Village’s total ADA is 57.19 and its
classroom-based ADA is 45.68.  JSF 15-16. 
New Village’s classroom-based ADA of 45.68 rounds to 46.  Its total reported ADA of 57.19 rounds to
57.  Therefore, New Village’s percent of
instruction time is 46 divided by 57, which equals 80.79%  Properly calculated, New Village’s percent of
instruction time offered at the school site for the pertinent period of time
exceeded 80%.[6]  As a result, New Village was a
classroom-based school under section
47612.5.  Pet. Op. Br. at 11-12; Reply at 6, 8.
New
Village argues that CDE concedes that it failed to round at all when computing
New Village’s percent of classroom-based instruction.  JSF ¶¶ 14,16. 
CDE thus admits that it denied New Village the Supplemental Funding it
is due because it failed to apply the legislative directive to round to a whole
number in calculating ADA as required by section 46303(a).  No post hac rationalizations can
change CDE’s failure to comply with applicable law.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12.
CDE
first responds that section 46303 applies to “any computation of average
daily attendance made under, or necessitated by any provision of law,” and
provides that if such computation does not equal a whole unit, it is
rounded up or down.  But section 47612.5
does not involve a “computation of ADA.” 
Instead, it merely determines what percentage of ADA reported by the
charter school was for instruction at the schoolsite versus the percentage of
certified ADA for independent study. 
Section 46303 is therefore inapplicable, and CDE correctly determined
that New Village was a nonclassroom-based charter school as of the 2021-22
fiscal year second apportionment.  Opp.
at 7.
This
argument is apparently based on the fact that the charter school, not CDE,
calculates the school’s classroom-based ADA and total ADA.  Specifically, New Village explains that, in
compiling the data for PADC reporting as required by CDE, New Village first calculates
its total ADA, then separately calculates classroom-based and
nonclassroom-based ADA.  Quiñones Decl.,
¶15, Ex. E.  CDE then uses these numbers
to determine the percentage of classroom-based ADA.  Omargiomg that there is no computation of ADA,
CDE is relying on its involvement to only calculate percentages at the end of
the classification process.
CDE’s
argument fights the express language of section 47612.5, which states that at
least 80% of the instructional time be offered and required in the classroom
shall be used “[f]or
purposes of calculating average daily attendance for classroom-based
instruction apportionments.” Thus, the entire section 47612.5 classification process
is a computation of ADA -- specifically a computation of the ADA percentage for
classroom-based instruction.  The fact that
CDE accepts the ADA numbers from a charter school and only makes the end
percentage calculation does not make the section 47612.5 classification process
any less of an ADA computation.  As such,
section 46303’s rounding requirement applies.
CDE
next argues that New Village reported classroom-based ADA of 45.68, and
nonclassroom-based ADA of 11.51 at the 2021-22 fiscal year second principal
apportionment.  Heredia Decl., Ex.
F.  Opp. at 6.  If section 46303 applies to the determination
under section 47612.5, section 46303 does not state at what point any rounding
must occur.  As the ADA numbers are
reported separately and then added together for the total ADA, it would be
reasonable to round the certified numbers first, and then add them to get the
total ADA.  See Ex. F, pp.
58-59.  If the ADA numbers submitted by
New Village are rounded, the classroom-based ADA would be rounded up from 45.68
to 46, and the nonclassroom-based ADA would be rounded up from 11.51 to 12,
resulting in a total ADA of 58.  Dividing
classroom-based ADA of 46 by total ADA of 58 yields a classroom-based ADA
percentage of 79.31% for New Village, which is still below the 80% threshold of
section 47612.5(e)(1).  Heredia Decl., ¶5,
Ex. E.  Dividing nonclassroom-based ADA
of 12 by total ADA of 58, New Village would have nonclassroom-based ADA of
20.68%, which is still above the 20% threshold.  Therefore, pursuant to section 46303’s
rounding, New Village would be classified as nonclassroom-based as of the
2021-22 fiscal year second principal apportionment and ineligible for Supplemental
Funding.  Opp. at 7-8.
CDE
contends that New Village’s calculation creates less reliable results.  If both ADA numbers are rounded and added for
a total ADA, the resulting percentages of classroom-based and
nonclassroom-based ADA are 79.31% and 20.68%. 
The total of these percentages is 99.99%.  If New Village’s calculation is used to round
both classroom-based ADA from 45.68 to 46 and nonclassroom-based ADA from 11.51
to 12, and again rounding the total reported regular ADA from 57.19 to 57, the classroom-based
percentage is 80.70% (46 divided by 57) but the nonclassroom-based percentage
is 21.05% (12 divided by 57).  This would
be a total of 101.75%.  Opp. at 8.
New
Village replies that its ADA is not simply
“reported,” it is the result of computation.  See §46300
(method of computing ADA).  As CDE argues,
section 47612.5 must be read in conjunction with the other provisions of
the Education Code.  Because schools are required by CDE to report
ADA to two decimal places (JSF 8), section 47612.5 must be read in light of section 46303, which provides that “[i]f
any computation of average daily attendance made under, or necessitated by, any
provision of law, results in a fraction,” “the average daily
attendance shall be taken as the next . . . whole number.”  §46303(a)
(emphasis added).  Section 46303 mandates that the computed
ADA of 45.68 “shall be taken as” 46 and
the computed total ADA of 57.19 “shall be
taken as” 57.  Barnes Decl.,
¶¶ 6-7.  Reply at 8.
CDE
violated the mandate in section 46303 that any computed ADA shall be taken as the next whole
number in “any” computation of ADA because
CDE did not round in calculating New Village’s percent of classroom-based
ADA.  CDE calculated New Village’s classroom-based
ADA to be “79.87% (45.68/57.19).”  JSF
16.  The “results” of this computation
therefore appropriately get rounded to 80%. 
Barnes Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.  Even
if the stipulated inputs of 45.68 and 57.19 were rounded (which is an
alternative given that both inputs involve a specific computation of ADA), the “results” would be at least
80%—45.68 is rounded to 46 and 57.19 is rounded to 57.  Barnes Decl., ¶¶ 7, 11.  Dividing 46 by 57 results in 80.7% of New
Village’s ADA that is
classroom-based.  Id.  Reply at 8-9.
Even
though CDE admits the denominator in the equation is 57.19 (JSF 16), it now
argues that this number is not New Village’s total ADA and suggests that the total ADA is the sum of its rounded classroom-based
and nonclassroom-based ADAs (58).  This interpretation finds no support in math
or the law.  Charter schools are required
to report “Total Regular ADA” as a line
item.  See
JSF Ex. F, p.59.  This accords with the
many times that the Education Code refers
to “total average daily attendance” without mention of classroom- or
nonclassroom-based ADA.  See, e.g., §§ 88827, 41602, 47638.  In compiling the data for PADC reporting, New
Village first calculates its total ADA,
then separately calculates classroom-based and nonclassroom-based ADA.  Quiñones Decl., ¶15, Ex. E.  The total ADA of 57 is thus the only proper
“result” of rounding the stipulated denominator, and there is no mathematical
justification for 58.  Barnes Decl. ¶¶ 7,
10-11.[7]  Reply at 9.
The
court agrees with New Village’s expert that rounding inevitably introduces “roundoff
errors”—differences between the result exact arithmetic and rounded arithmetic
would produce.  Barnes Decl., ¶¶
7-11.  For example, percentages that
otherwise would add up to 100% might instead add up to slightly less or
slightly more.  That is a natural
occurrence with rounding.  CDE suggests
that less than 80% or more than 20% can be used interchangeably, but section 47612.5(e)(1) does not say that.  Section 47612.5(e)(1)
evaluates only the percent of classroom-based instructional time offered, and
not also the percent of nonclassroom-based instructional time offered.  The percentages of classroom-based and
nonclassroom-based instruction need not add to 100%.    Reply at 9-10.
Section 46303
states that “[i]f any computation of average daily attendance…results
in a fraction,” “the average daily attendance shall be taken as the next
. . . whole number”. 
Arguably, the phrase “any computation” could be interpreted as requiring
rounding at the input stage, meaning that classroom-based ADA of 45.68 would be
rounded to 46 and nonclassroom-based ADA of 11.51 would be rounded to 12.  But that interpretation of section 46303 does
not require the total ADA to be 58.  Section
47612.5(e)(1) does not require a computation of the percentage of
nonclassroom-based instruction; it only requires that 80% of total instruction
be classroom-based.   This means that
only the classroom-based ADA and total ADA are relevant to the computation.  The parties stipulated that the total ADA is
57.19, which rounds to 57.  Rounding in
this circumstance would lead to classroom-based ADA of 45.68 rounded to 46 and
total ADA of 57.19, which rounds to 57. 
The classroom-based ADA percentage would be 80.7%.
However,
this is not the proper interpretation of section 46303’s 
any computation”. As CDE states, section 46303(a)
calls for rounding but does not say at what stage rounding should occur.  The statute should be interpreted to require
rounding that is as accurate as possible. 
The court agrees with New Village’s expert that rounding should occur at
the end of the process.  From a
mathematical perspective, if the objective of rounding is to make a number
“‘easier’ to use or understand whilst also keeping [it] close to its original
value,” the most appropriate approach would be to round only at the final
stage.  Barnes Decl., ¶11.  As a result, the court interprets section
46303’s reference to “any computation” to mean the final calculation in a
calculation.  Applying this
interpretation of section 46303, New Village’s unrounded percent of
classroom-based ADA is 79.87% (classroom-based
ADA of 45.68 divided by total ADA of 57.19), which rounds to 80% under section
46303(a).  
 
E. Conclusion
The Petition is granted. 
A judgment and writ shall issue requiring CDE to lawfully determine its
eligibility to receive Supplemental Funding as a classroom-based charter school
and to disburse the funding due to New Village. 
The declaratory relief claim is subsumed within this mandamus ruling.
Petitioner New Village’s counsel is ordered to prepare a
proposed judgment and writ of mandate, serve them on Respondents’ counsel for
approval as to form, wait ten days after service for any objections, meet and
confer if there are objections, and then submit the proposed judgment and writ
along with a declaration stating the existence/non-existence of any unresolved
objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set
for January 16, 2025.


