 Case Number:  24STCV25372    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  85 
Junius J. Joyner v. United States Veterans
Initiative, Cantwell-Anderson, Inc., and Nathans Towing , LLC, 24STCV25372
Tentative decision on application for preliminary injunction: denied or
continued



 
 
             
Plaintiffs Junius J. Joyner (“Joyner”) applies for a
preliminary injunction prohibiting Defendants United States Veterans Initiative
(“USVI”), Cantwell-Anderson, Inc. dba Cloudbreak Communities (“Cloudbreak”),
and Nathans Towing, LLC (“Nathans”) from conducting a lien sale or from
otherwise unlawfully disposing of his vehicle.
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers (no opposition was filed) and
renders the following tentative decision. 
            
            A.
Statement of the Case
            1.
The Complaint
            Plaintiff
Joyner filed the Complaint on October 1, 2024, alleging claims against Defendants
for (1) Negligence, (2) Violation of California Business and Professional Code
section 17001, and (3) Unlawful Business Practices.  The Complaint alleges in pertinent part as
follows.
             Since 2020 Joyner has been involved in
two separate ongoing litigation matters that have led to him living in his
vehicle since September 8, 2022.  One of
the matters directly limited his ability to find on-going employment in the
legal field.  Since approximately October
2023 Joyner has supplemented his income by
working on a temporary basis with Labor Finders. 
            On
or about August 19, 2024, Joyner, after leaving work at a Labor Finders, was
the victim of a hit-and-run accident on Interstate 405.  The accident damaged the left rear quarter
panel and partially disabled the left rear wheel of his vehicle.  Joyner later learned that his employment with Labor
Finders ended the same day. 
            Joyner drove his vehicle from the site of the
crash to Hawthorne, California and continued
to live out of his vehicle until September 12, 2024, when City of Hawthorne
case workers informed him that they
could facilitate relocating him to USVI in Inglewood, California.  Joyner
informed the case workers that he had to arrange for storage of his vehicle.
            Joyner
arranged for his vehicle to be stored later that week.  Hawthorne case workers arrived and transported
Joyner to USVI and he began in-processing.  After he provided the USVI employee with his military
service record, the employee informed Hawthorne caseworkers that Joyner would
be admitted as a service veteran and the caseworkers departed.
            During
intake, the USVI employee asked Joyner if he had a vehicle that he would like
to store at the facility.  Having no
previous knowledge of USVI, Joyner was surprised to learn that he could store
his vehicle onsite.  He informed the USVI
employee that his vehicle had been damaged in a hit-and-run accident, the rear
tire was missing, and only the rim remained.  The employee informed Joyner that he could
store the vehicle at the facility so long as he maintained insurance for it. 
            Joyner
immediately contacted AAA and arranged for his vehicle to be transported to USVI.
 Joyner's vehicle arrived at 733 S.
Hindry Avenue at approximately 2:00 a.m. on September 13, 2024.  Joyner's intake had been completed the
previous evening before a parking pass could be issued.  The USVI employee stated that Joyner could
park his vehicle that evening at the facility and return in the morning to
receive his parking pass.  After Joyner provided
copies of his registration and proof of insurance, another USVI employee issued
Joyner a parking pass on the morning of September 13, 2024.
            Joyner
immediately hung the parking pass in plain sight from his rear-view mirror.  It was not until he went to retrieve some
additional items from his vehicle on Saturday, September 14, 2024, that he
became aware that his vehicle had been towed.  Joyner immediately called Cloudbreak’s leasing
office, the property manager of property 733 S. Hindry Avenue, to inquire why
his vehicle had been towed.  To date, Cloudbreak
has not returned any of his voicemails or emails inquiring about the vehicle. 
            Joyner
contacted All City Tow, one of several tow companies listed throughout the
property.  All City Tow stated that they
no longer serviced the property and did not have his vehicle.  Joyner then contacted the Inglewood Police
Department and learned that his vehicle had been towed by Nathans on September
13, 2024, the same day he had been issued the parking pass for the vehicle.
            Joyner
immediately contacted Nathans and an employee named Mike answered the phone.   He told Joyner they were closed and would
not provide any information regarding the vehicle.  Joyner explained that he only wanted to verify
that the vehicle was there before reporting it stolen.  Mike stated that Joyner "sounded like a
cop" and he did not have to answer any of his questions, and then hung up
the phone. 
            On
September 18, 2024, Joyner contacted Nathans and spoke to Mike, who informed
him that the vehicle was in Nathans’ possession and that a lien for the tow had
been placed on the vehicle.  Joyner asked
why the vehicle had been towed with a valid parking pass.  Mike stated that property management had
requested the tow, and Joyner should take it up with Cloudbreak.  Joyner stated he wanted to retrieve property
from his vehicle that day and Mike informed him that the only time he had
available was 4:30p.m. 
            Joyner
arrived at Nathans' impound lot located at 6020 S. Western Ave. Los Angeles
90047 at 4:30 p.m. and found the property locked.  At approximately 4:50 p.m., an employee of Nathans
arrived and opened the facility.  Upon
looking at the vehicle Joyner immediately noticed the entire rear axle had been
dislodged and separated.  The vehicle was
damaged to the point where it was no longer drivable.  Upon further inspection, Joyner found tools, a
book, and medical equipment missing from the vehicle. 
            On
or about September 23, 2024, Joyner contacted Nathans to find out how much
money was owed to retrieve the vehicle and to inform Nathans that it had
damaged the vehicle and that items were missing.  Joyner also asked if any notice had been sent
informing him that the vehicle was in Nathans’ possession and how the vehicle
could be returned.  Mike stated that the
vehicle had been in Nathans’ possession for 11 days and the balance owed was
$1,236.50.  Mike stated that Nathans did
not send any notices or provide an itemized report, that there was no damage to
the vehicle, and that no items were taken.
            Joyner
has since inspected USVI’s property and determined that the property does not
display any sign at its entrance regarding prohibited parking.  Moreover, signs that are displayed
inconspicuously on the property do not contain the telephone number of local
law enforcement or contain Nathans’ name or telephone number. 
            
            2. Course of Proceedings
            A
proof of service on file shows that Defendant Nathans was served with Summons
and Complaint on November 4, 2024.   
            On
November 6, 2024, Defendant USVI filed its Answer. 
            On
November 12, 2024, Defendant Cloudbreak filed its Answer. 
On November 12, 2024, the court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application for a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) and order to show cause re:
preliminary injunction (“OSC”).  Proofs
of service on file show that Defendants were served with the TRO/OSC by mail on
November 14, 2024.
            
            B.
Applicable Law
            An
injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to refrain from a particular
act; it may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a
judge thereof; and when granted by a judge, it may be enforced as an order of
the court.  Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)
§525.  An injunction may be more
completely defined as a writ or order commanding a person either to perform or
to refrain from performing a particular act. 
See Comfort v. Comfort, (1941) 17 Cal.2d 736, 741. McDowell
v. Watson, (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1155, 1160.[1]  It is an equitable remedy available generally
in the protection or to prevent the invasion of a legal right.  Meridian, Ltd. v. City and County of San
Francisco, et al., (1939) 13 Cal.2d 424.
            The
purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo
pending final resolution upon a trial.  See
Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc., (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536. Grothe
v. Cortlandt Corp., (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316; Major v. Miraverde
Homeowners Assn., (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 618, 623.  The status quo has been defined to
mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending
controversy.  Voorhies v. Greene
(1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 989, 995, quoting United Railroads v. Superior Court,
(1916) 172 Cal. 80, 87. 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.,
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.
            A
preliminary injunction is issued after hearing on a noticed motion.  The complaint normally must plead injunctive
relief.  CCP §526(a)(1)-(2).[2]  Preliminary injunctive relief requires the
use of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds
for relief.  See e.g. Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green, (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.  Injunctive relief may be granted based on a
verified complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate,
facts.  See CCP §527(a).  For this reason, a pleading alone rarely
suffices.  Weil & Brown, California
Procedure Before Trial, 9:579, 9(ll)-21 (The Rutter Group 2007).  The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as
moving party.  O’Connell v. Superior
Court, (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481. 
            A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law.  CCP §526(4); Thayer
Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors, (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307; Department
of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist., (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1565.  The concept of
“inadequacy of the legal remedy” or “inadequacy of damages” dates from the time
of the early courts of chancery, the idea being that an injunction is an
unusual or extraordinary equitable remedy which will not be granted if the
remedy at law (usually damages) will adequately compensate the injured
plaintiff.  Department of Fish &
Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist., (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1554,
1565.
            In
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction, the trial court
considers two factors: (1) the reasonable probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the merits at trial (CCP §526(a)(1)), and (2) a balancing of the
“irreparable harm” that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction. 
CCP §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.,
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402; Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro v.
Schectman, (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1283; Davenport v. Blue Cross of
California, (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446; Abrams v. St. Johns Hospital,
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 628, 636.  Thus, a
preliminary injunction may not issue without some showing of potential
entitlement to such relief.  Doe v.
Wilson, (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296, 304. 
The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the
sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent
an abuse of discretion.  Thornton v.
Carlson, (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1255.
            A
preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the
plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may
sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the
plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. 
See CCP §529(a); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn
Cemetery Assn., (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.
 
            C.
Governing Law
“The owner or person in lawful possession of private
property…may cause the removal of a vehicle parked on the property to a storage
facility in any of the following circumstances: (1) there is displayed in plain
view at all entrances to the property a sign of specific size and lettering
prohibiting public parking and indicates that vehicles will be towed at the
owner’s expense and containing the telephone number of the local traffic law
enforcement agency and the name and telephone number of the towing company;…(3)
the vehicle is on private property and lacks an engine, transmission, wheels,
tires, doors windshield, or any other major part or equipment  necessary to operate safely, the owner or
person in lawful possession as notified the local traffic law enforcement
agency, and 24 hours have elapsed since that notification.  Vehicle Code §22658(a). 
A towing company shall not remove or commence the removal
of a vehicle from private property without first obtaining the written
authorization from the property owner or lessee, including an association
of a common interest development, or an employee or agent thereof, who shall
be present at the time of removal and verify the alleged violation…. For
the purpose of this subparagraph, a person providing the written authorization
who is required to be present on the private property at the time of the tow
does not have to be physically present at the specified location of where the
vehicle to be removed is located on the private property.  Vehicle Code § 22658(l)(1)(A) (emphasis
added). 
 
D. Statement of Facts
1. Plaintiff’s
Evidence 
On or about August 19, 2024, after leaving work in Torrance,
California, Joyner was the victim of a hit-and-run accident on Interstate 405.  Joyner Decl., ¶2.  The accident damaged the left rear quarter
panel and partially disabled the left rear wheel of his vehicle.  Joyner Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1. 
Joyner drove the vehicle from the accident site to
Hawthorne, California and continued to live out of the vehicle until September
12, 2024, until City of Hawthorne case workers informed him that they could
help relocate him to USVI’s facility in Inglewood, California.  Joyner Decl., ¶3.  
Hawthorne case workers transported Joyner to USVI later that
day.  Joyner Decl., ¶4.   During
the in-processing, Joyner informed the USVI employee that his vehicle had been
damaged in a hit-and-run accident and that the rear tire was missing with only
the rim remaining.  Joyner Decl.,
¶4.  The employee informed Joyner that he
could park the vehicle on the property as long as he maintained insurance on it.  Joyner Decl., ¶4.   
Joyner contacted AAA and arranged for his vehicle to be
transported to USVI at 733 S. Hindry Avenue.  Joyner Decl., ¶5.  When the vehicle arrived, Joyner drove the
vehicle into a parking space in an enclosed garage.  Joyner Decl., ¶5.  Later that morning, Joyner provided copies of
his registration and proof of insurance to another USVI employee and was issued
a parking pass.  Joyner Decl., ¶5.  Joyner immediately hung the parking pass in
plain sight from the rear-view mirror of the vehicle.  Joyner Decl., ¶5, Ex. 2.  
On the morning of September 14, 2024, Joyner went to
retrieve items from the vehicle and did not find the vehicle where he parked
it.  Joyner Decl., ¶6.  Joyner immediately called Cloudbreak’s
leasing office, the property manager of property 733 S. Hindry Avenue, to
inquire why the vehicle had been towed. 
Joyner Decl., ¶6.  To date, Cloudbreak
has not returned any of Joyner’s voicemails or emails inquiring about the
vehicle.  Joyner Decl., ¶6, Ex. 3.  
After not being able to reach the leasing office, Joyner contacted
All City Tow, one of several tow companies listed throughout the property.  Joyner Decl., ¶7.  All City Tow stated that they no longer
serviced the property and did not have his vehicle.  Joyner Decl., ¶7.  Joyner then contacted the Inglewood Police
Department and learned that his vehicle had been towed by Nathans on September
13, 2024.  Joyner Decl., ¶7.  
Joyner immediately contacted Nathans and an employee named
Mike answered the phone, told him they were closed, and would not provide any
information regarding the vehicle. 
Joyner Decl., ¶8.  Joyner
explained that he only wanted to verify that the vehicle was there before
reporting it stolen.  Joyner Decl.,
¶8.  Mike stated that Joyner “sounded
like a cop” and that he did not have to answer any of his questions.  Joyner Decl., ¶8.  Mike then hung up the phone.  Joyner Decl., ¶8.  
On September 18, 2024, Joyner contacted Nathans again and Mike
informed him that the vehicle was in Nathans’ possession and that a lien for
the tow had been placed on the vehicle. 
Joyner Decl., ¶9.  Joyner asked
why the vehicle had been towed when it had a valid parking pass.  Joyner Decl., ¶9.  Mike stated that property management had
requested the tow and Joyner should take it up with Cloudbreak.  Joyner Decl., ¶9.  Joyner stated that he wanted to retrieve
property from the vehicle that day and Mike informed him the only time he had
available was 4:30 p.m.  Joyner Decl.,
¶9.  
Joyner arrived at Nathans’ impound lot located at 6020 S.
Western Ave. Los Angeles, California 90047 at 4:30 p.m. and found the property
locked.  Joyner Decl., ¶10.  At approximately 4:50 p.m., a Nathans
employee arrived and opened the facility. 
Joyner Decl., ¶10.  Upon looking
at the vehicle, Joyner immediately noticed the entire rear axle had been
dislodged and separated.  Joyner Decl.,
¶10.  Joyner also found tools, a book,
and medical equipment missing from the vehicle that were there when the parking
pass was placed on the vehicle.  Joyner
Decl., ¶10.  Joyner estimates the value
of this property to be approximately $250. 
Joyner Decl., ¶10.  
While Joyner was removing items from his vehicle, the Nathans
employee yelled at him to hurry up.  Joyner
Decl., ¶11.  Joyner was intimidated to
the point that he did not lock the vehicle. 
Joyner Decl., ¶11.  When Joyner realized
he had not locked the vehicle, he asked the Nathans employee to go back to the vehicle
to lock it.  Joyner Decl., ¶11.  The employee told Joyner that Nathans was now
closed, and that he would have to return tomorrow when they opened.  Joyner Decl., ¶11.  
On or about September 23, 2024, Joyner contacted Nathans to
find out how much money was owed, to inform them that they had damaged the
vehicle and that items were missing, and to find out if notice had been sent
that the vehicle was in their possession.  Joyner Decl., ¶12.  Again, Mike answered and stated that the
vehicle had been in Nathans’ possession for 11 days and that the balance owed
was $1,236.50.  Joyner Decl., ¶12.  He stated that Nathans did not send any
notices or provide an itemized report, there was no damage to the vehicle, and no
items were taken.  Joyner Decl.,
¶12.  
Joyner has inspected USVI’s property and determined that the
property does not display any sign at its entrance regarding prohibited parking
and does not display the telephone number of local law enforcement or contain Nathans
name or telephone number.  Joyner Decl.,
¶13, Ex. 4-6.  
At no time was Joyner ever informed by USVI or Cloudbreak
that he was in violation of any parking policy. 
Joyner Decl., ¶14.  
Joyner’s vehicle provides a functional purpose as well as
holds years of family memories.  Joyner
Decl., ¶15.  He would suffer irreparable
harm if the vehicle was auctioned by Nathans. 
Joyner Decl., ¶15.  
 
D. Analysis
Plaintiff seek a preliminary injunction prohibiting
Defendants from conducting a lien sale or from otherwise unlawfully disposing
of his vehicle.  No opposition has been
filed.
“The owner or person in lawful possession of private
property…may cause the removal of a vehicle parked on the property to a storage
facility in any of the following circumstances: (1) there is displayed in
plain view at all entrances to the property a sign of specific size and
lettering prohibiting public parking and indicates that vehicles will be towed
at the owner’s expense and containing the telephone number of the local traffic
law enforcement agency and the name and telephone number of the towing company;…(3)
the vehicle is on private property and lacks an engine, transmission, wheels, tires,
doors, windshield, or any other major part or equipment  necessary to operate safely, the owner or
person in lawful possession has notified the local traffic law enforcement
agency, and 24 hours have elapsed since that notification.  Vehicle Code §22658(a). 
Plaintiff contends that Cloudbreak did not comply with
statutory requirements of Vehicle Code section 22658 (a)(1) and (3) and
therefore impoundment of his vehicle was improper.
A towing company shall not remove or commence the removal
of a vehicle from private property without first obtaining the written
authorization from the property owner or lessee, including an association
of a common interest development, or an employee or agent thereof, who shall
be present at the time of removal and verify the alleged violation…. For
the purpose of this subparagraph, a person providing the written authorization
who is required to be present on the private property at the time of the tow
does not have to be physically present at the specified location of where the
vehicle to be removed is located on the private property.  Vehicle Code § 22658 (l)(1)(A) (emphasis
added). 
Plaintiff alleges that Nathans violated Vehicle Code section
22658(l)(1)(A) because it did not first obtain written authorization from the
property owner or lessee who was present at the time of removal.
The court cannot address the merits of Plaintiff’s claim
because he has not properly served Nathans. 
On November 12, 2024, the court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application
for a TRO/OSC and ordered that he personally serve all named Defendants.  Proofs of service on file show that
Defendants were served with the TRO/OSC by mail on November 14, 2024.  
This is improper for Nathans.  The court ordered personal service because
that is the manner of serving a defendant until they appear in the
lawsuit.  Cloudbreak has appeared and a
preliminary injunction could be issued as to it, but Cloudbreak does not seek
to auction the vehicle.  Nathans has not
appeared.
The application will be denied or continued for Plaintiff to
make proper service on Nathans.


