 Case Number:  23NWCV01867    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  C (Judge Olivia Rosales)DIAZ v.
THOR MOTOR COACH, INC.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01867
HEARING:  04/11/24
 
#4
Defendant THOR MOTOR
COACH, INC.’s Motion to Stay is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 
This lemon law action
concerning the sale of a Thor Aria Vehicle to Plaintiffs EDWARD DIAZ and LINDA
DIAZ (“Plaintiffs”) was filed on June 16, 2023. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that
“[o]n or about June 25, 2021… a retail merchant, GIANT RV DOWNEY, sold the
SUBJECT VEHICLE, a 2021 Thor Aria… to Plaintiff for their personal use….[T]he
sales contract was assigned to U.S. Bank on or about June 25, 2021.” (Complaint
¶5.) “In connection with the sale of the SUBJECT VEHICLE, Plaintiff received an
express limited warranty from THOR MOTOR COACH, INC; U.S. BANK.” (Complaint
¶6.) “During the warranty period, THOR MOTOR COACH, INC.; U.S. BANK, and its
authorized repair facilities failed to perform all necessary repairs on the
SUBJECT MOTORHOME in order to correct the defects in materials and/or
workmanship that plagued the SUBJECT MOTORHOME. Despite several repair
opportunities, Defendant THOR MOTOR COACH, INC.; U.S. BANK, and it’s authorized
repair facilities have been unable to conform the SUBJECT MOTORHOME to the
applicable express and implied warranties which accompanied the SUBJECT
MOTORHOME.” (Complaint ¶7.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint
asserts one sole cause of action for Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act against Defendants THOR MOTOR COACH, INC. (“Thor”); U.S. BANK
(“U.S. Bank”); GIANT RV DOWNEY (“Giant RV”); and DOES 1-20. 
 
Thor moves to dismiss
or stay the action under CCP §410.30, arguing that the parties are bound to
litigate their claims in Indiana under the forum selection clause contained in
the express warranty, that this agreement is mandatory, and that the agreement
requires application of Indiana law. Thor indicates that they will stipulate to
“not object” to the application of California law in an Indiana court. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs
argue: (1) the forum selection clause at issue violates public policy; (2) the jury
trial waiver in the warranty registration form renders the forum selection
clause unenforceable; and (3) the forum selection clause is unconscionable. Plaintiffs
maintain that they did not consent to the forum selection clause, and whether
consent was given is irrelevant because it is unconscionable. Plaintiffs
additionally argue that Defendants’ offer of stipulation to “not object” to the
application of California law in and Indiana court does not address the
unenforceability of other warranty terms. 
 
Joinders
 
Defendants Giant RV and
U.S. Bank filed separate Joinders to Thor’s instant Motion to Stay. Both
Joinders argue that non-signatories to the contract containing a forum
selection clause may also enforce the forum selection when the non-signatory
party agrees to be bound by the terms of the contract or when the non-signatory
party has a defined and intertwining business relationship with a contracting
party. (Bancomer v. Sup. Ct. (2006) 44 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1461.) 
 
Giant RV argues that
since it negotiated the sale of the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiffs, delivered
the warranty agreement to Plaintiffs, and was the primary consumer point of
contact for access to services under the warranty agreement, Giant RV is
sufficiently intertwined with the transaction. 
 
U.S. Bank argues that,
as the lienholder, it effectively agreed to be bound by the terms of the
warranty agreement, and is sufficiently intertwined with the transaction. 
 
The Joinder of U.S.
Bank to the subject Motion is unopposed. The unopposed Joinder of U.S. Bank to
Thor’s Motion to Stay is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs object to
the Joinder of Giant RV to the Subject Motion. Plaintiffs filed two separate Oppositions
to Giant RV’s Joinder—the first Opposition was filed on March 29, 2024, and the
second Opposition was filed on April 2, 2024. In the Oppositions, Plaintiffs
argue that: (1) Thor’s Warranty specifically excludes Giant RV; and (2) Giant
RV has no standing to enforce the forum selection clause because (a) Giant RV
is not a third-party beneficiary; and (b) Giant RV is not “closely related to
the contractual relationship” between Plaintiffs and Thor. Plaintiffs maintain
that the sales contract between Plaintiffs and Giant RV was separate and
distinct from the warranty agreement between Plaintiffs and Thor. 
 
For a non-signatory “to
demonstrate that it was so closely related to the contractual relationship that
it is entitled to enforce the forum selection clause, it must show by specific
conduct or express agreement that (1) it agreed to be bound by the terms of the
[ ] agreement, (2) the contracting parties intended the [non-signatory] to
benefit from the purchase, or (3) there was sufficient evidence of a defined
and intertwining business relationship with a contracting party.” (Bancomer,
S.A. v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1461.) 
Here, it is undisputed
that Giant RV provided the warranty repairs to the Subject Vehicle, sold the
Subject Vehicle to Plaintiffs, delivered the warranty to Plaintiffs, and acted
as the consumer point of contact for access to warranty services. Giant RV
engaged in conduct showing that it agreed to be bound by the terms of the
warranty agreement between Thor and Plaintiffs. Moreover, Giant RV had a
“defined and intertwining business relationship” with Thor, sufficient to be
bound by the terms of the warranty agreement containing the forum selection
agreement. Indeed, Giant RV bore a great deal of the burdens to repair the
Subject RV imposed by the Warranty. 
 
Giant RV’s Joinder to
the Motion to Stay is GRANTED. 
 
Merits
 
On June 25, 2021, Plaintiff
purchased a 2021 Thor Aria Vehicle (“the Subject Vehicle”), from GIANT RV DOWNEY.

 
The Sales Contract had
a Warranty Registration, which stated in relevant part: “EXCLUSIVE
JURISDICTION FOR DECIDING LEGAL DISPUTES RELATING TO ALLEGED BREACH OF EXPRESS
WARRANTY AND BREACH OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARISING BY OPERATION OF LAW AS WELL
AS THOSE RELATING TO REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY NATURE MUST BE FILED IN A STATE OR
FEDERAL COURT WITHIN THE STATE OF MANUFACTURE, WHICH IS INDIANA.” (Stanley
Decl., Ex. C.) 
 
A “mandatory [forum
selection] clause will ordinarily be given effect without any analysis of
convenience; the only question is whether enforcement of the clause would be
unreasonable. On the other hand, when the clause merely provides for submission
to jurisdiction and does not expressly mandate litigation exclusively in a
particular forum, then the traditional forum non conveniens analysis applies.”
(Intershop Communications A.G. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
191, 196.) “[I]f there is a mandatory forum selection clause, the test is
simply whether application of the clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the clause
is usually given effect… ‘Mere inconvenience or additional expense is not the
test of unreasonableness…’ of a mandatory forum selection clause.” (Berg v.
MTC Electronics Technologies (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358-359.)
 
“Given the importance
of forum selection clauses, both the United States Supreme Court and the
California Supreme Court have placed a heavy burden on a plaintiff seeking to
defeat such a clause, requiring it to demonstrate that enforcement of the
clause would be unreasonable under the circumstances of the case.” (Lu v.
Dryclean-U.S.A. of California, Inc. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1493.)
“[T]he selected jurisdiction must be ‘suitable,’ ‘available,’ and able to
‘accomplish substantial justice.’” (America Online, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1, 12.) 
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiffs signed the Thor Motor Coach Warranty Registration Form, which
states: “Before I purchased my motorhome, I received, read and agreed to the
terms and conditions of the Thor Motor Coach Limited Warranty and the Thor
Motor Coach Structural Limited Warranty….. I understand and agree to the forum
selection clause and choice of law clause set forth in the Thor Motor Coach
Limited Warranty and the Thor Motor Coach Structural Limited Warranty… I
UNDERSTAND THAT EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION FOR DECIDING LEGAL DISPUTES RELATED TO
ALLEGED BREACH OF EXPRESS WARRANTY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES THAT ARISE BY
OPERATION OF LAW AS WELL AS THOSE RELATING TO REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY NATURE
RESTS IN THE COURTS WITHIN THE STATE OF MANUFACTURE, WHICH IS INDIANA.”
(Stanley Decl., Ex. B.) The relevant language of the terms of the express
warranty at issue is as follows: “EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION FOR DECIDING LEGAL
DISPUTES… MUST BE FILED IN A STATE OR FEDERAL COURT WITHIN THE STATE OF
MANUFACTURE, WHICH IS INDIANA. ALSO, THIS LIMITED WARRANTY SHALL BE INTERPRETED
AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF INDIANA….” (Id., Ex. C.)

 
Here, the contract
terms at issue provide for mandatory jurisdiction in Indiana. Therefore, the
Court will limit its analysis to determining whether its enforcement is
unreasonable given the circumstances of this case. This requires a showing that
“the forum selected would be unavailable or unable to accomplish substantial
justice.” (Smith, Valentino & Smith, Inc. v. Superior Court (1976)
17 Cal.3d 491, 494.) California’s public policy favoring residents’ access to
its court is not thwarted when residents surrender this right voluntarily in
the course of negotiating a contract. A forum selection clause will only be
disregarded if it is the result of overreaching or the unfair use of unequal
bargaining power or if the forum chosen by the parties would be a seriously
inconvenient one for the trial of the action. There is no public policy which
would compel denial of a forum selection clause in a contract which has been
entered into freely and voluntarily by the parties who have negotiated at arms’
length. Thus, forum selection clauses may be given effect in the court’s
discretion and in the absence of a showing that enforcement would be
unreasonable. (See CQL Original Products, Inc. v. NHL Players Assoc.
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1347.) 
 
Where
forum selection clauses are presumptively valid, and may be given effect absent
a showing that enforcement of such a clause would be unreasonable—the crux of
the instant motion lies in determining whether the underlying forum selection
clause is unreasonable.  
 
Plaintiffs argue that the warranty clause is unconscionable
because it is a contract of adhesion. “A forum selection clause need not be
subject to negotiation to be enforceable. [Citations.] Rather, a forum
selection clause contained in a contract of adhesion, and thus not the subject
of bargaining, is ‘enforceable absent a showing that it was outside the
reasonable expectations of the weaker or adhering party or that enforcement
would be unduly oppressive or unconscionable.’ [Citations.]” (Drulias v. 1st
Century Bancshares, Inc. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 696, 707-708.) Indeed, the
Agreement appears to be a contract of adhesion in that it is, on its face, a
sale contract unilaterally drafted by the seller and presented on a “take it or
leave it basis”. However, Plaintiffs present no evidence to show that
Plaintiffs were pressured, rushed, or denied the ability to negotiate the terms
of the warranty. Further, Plaintiffs singed the Thor Motor Coach Product
Warranty Registration Form. (Stanley Decl., Ex. B.) In addition, Plaintiffs
fail to make any showing that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable.
The terms of the Warranty appear on its face to be bilateral, reasonable, and
not unfairly favorable to either party. As a result, the Court finds that the
Warranty Agreement lacks the “one-sidedness” necessary to be deemed
substantively unconscionable. (See e.g., Lhotka v. Geographic Expeditions,
Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 816, 825-826.) The Court does not find that the
Agreement is so one-sided as to shock the conscience or that it “unfairly
limits discovery”. 
Plaintiffs
also argue that they did not agree to the terms of the warranty including the
forum selection clause because there is no evidence that they received the full
warranty. First, Plaintiffs are availing themselves of the warranty by filing
this action and cannot now claim that they should be relieved of the
obligations but granted the privileges under the warranty. Second, Plaintiffs
signed the Warranty Registration Form which contains the forum selection
clause. Therefore, the forum selection clause is enforceable because Defendant
has met its burden of proving that Plaintiff signed the forum selection clause
and Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly Rights can be readily preserved.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Stay is GRANTED.
This matter is stayed during the pendency of the matter in Indiana courts. Thor
is to sign a stipulation to not oppose the application of California law in
Indiana courts and should the Indiana courts decline to apply Plaintiff’s
Song-Beverly Act rights in their jurisdiction, Plaintiff may move to lift the
stay in this Court.
 
 
 
 