 Case Number:  22AVCV00843    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This appears to be a racketeering (“RICO”)
action. Plaintiffs Frank Cockrell (“Frank”)[1], John Downy (“Downy”), Gary Loucks
(“Loucks”), Lance Cooley (“Cooley”), Harry Davis (“Davis”), Tabetha Cockrell
(“Tabetha”), and Willard Langham (“Langham” and collectively “Plaintiffs”)
allege a multitude of allegations pertaining to the actions taken by Defendants
Victor Martinez & Associates, LLC (“Victor Martinez & Associates”);
Victor Martinez (“Martinez”), individually; Hoge Family Bypass Trust (“Hoge
Family Trust”); Kerri Hoge Anderson (“Anderson”); Daniel Hoge (“Daniel”)[2]; Brandon Hoge (“Brandon”); Mario Rivera
Esparza (“Mario”)[3]; Stephanie Rivera Esparza (“Stephanie”);
and Michael Esparza (“Michael”) related to the maintenance of a senior mobile
home community.  
 
On October 28, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their
Complaint alleging five causes of action for: RICO; (2) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress (“IIED”); (3) Creating Rules that are Intended to Remove
Older Mobile Homes so They Can Raise the Rents to Increase Values for Owners of
the Californian Mobile Home Senior Park; (4) Grand Theft under Cal. Pen. Code
§§ 186 and 486/Violation of Constitutional Rights to Life, Liberty and Pursuit
of Happiness/Insider Unfair Trade Advantage; and (5) Violation of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act and Federal Fair Housing Act by Moving Children into a Senior
Housing Facility.  
 
On March 17, 2023, Victor Martinez &
Associates, Inc.; Victor Martinez, individually; Mario Rivera; Stephanie Rivera
Esparza; and Michael Esparza (“Defendants”) filed this Demurrer. The
Demurrer was subsequently sustained with leave to amend due to uncertainty on April
25, 2023. The Court issued a ruling cautioning Frank against the unauthorized
practice of law as Frank drafted the original complaint on behalf of all
plaintiffs. The Court struck Downy, Loucks, Cooley, Davis, Tabetha, Langham,
and Doe plaintiffs from the Complaint as “part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court” under the authority granted to it in Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
436(b).  The Court emphasized that each
named plaintiff may proceed in pro per by representing their individual
interests.
 
On November 27, 2023, Frank filed his First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging five causes of action for: RICO; (2)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”); (3) Creating Rules that
are Intended to Remove Older Mobile Homes so They Can Raise the Rents to
Increase Values for Owners of the Californian Mobile Home Senior Park; (4) Violation
of Constitutional Rights to Life, Liberty & Pursuit of Happiness &
Unfair Trade Advantages; and (5) Violation of Age Restrictions in a Senior Park
Only Facility both Federal & State Laws. 
 
On April 10, 2024, Frank filed a document
titled “Response to Defendants Demurrer.”
 
On April 26, 2024, Defendants filed their
Demurrer to the FAC, subsequently sustained with leave to amend.
 
On July 05, 2024, Frank filed his Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging the same five causes of action as the FAC.
 
On August 05, 2024, Defendants filed their
Demurrer to the SAC.
 
On September 05, 2024, Frank filed his
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories & Request for Admissions
and Sanctions Against Legal Counsel for Defendants.
 
On September 13, Frank filed a document
titled “Response to Defendants Demurrer.”
 
On September 23, 2024, Defendants filed an
Opposition to Frank’s discovery motion. 
 
 
-----
 
Demurrer
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39
Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿ A
general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations
contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer, the demurring
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41 provides that a declaration may be filed where he party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of
the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. (Id.
at (a)(3)(B).) Defense counsel Sam M. Muriella (“Muriella”) has filed a
declaration stating that he attempted to contact Frank; however, a response was
not received. “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process
was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Id.
at (a)(4).) Accordingly, the Court addresses the Demurrer on its merits. 
 
-----
 
Application – Defendants
first present that the SAC is uncertain. That is, Defendants believe that the
SAC reads as a stream of conscious letter, lacks coherence, does not state
cognizable claims, and the causes of action does not specify which parties are
plaintiffs or defendants to each.
 
Pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 430.10(f), “uncertainty” is a proper demurrer ground where the pleading is
ambiguous and unintelligible.¿ Demurrers for uncertainty will only be sustained
where the complaint is so vague that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., determine what issues must be admitted or denied or what counts
or claims are directed against him or her.¿ (Khoury v. Maly’s Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
A special demurrer should not be sustained
when the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the
defendant of the issues which he is to meet.¿(Lord v. Garland (1946) 27
Cal.2d 840, 853.)¿Such a demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach the
failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading, but is directed at the
uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made. (People v. Lim
(1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.) ¿A demurrer which attacks an entire pleading should
be overruled if one of the counts therein is not vulnerable to the objection.¿
(Lord, supra, 27 Cal.2d at 850.) ¿The sole issue on a demurrer
for ambiguity is whether “the allegations are sufficiently clear to apprise the
defendant of the issues that must be met, even if the allegations of the
complaint may not be as clear and as detailed as might be desired.”¿(Merlino
v. West Coast Macaroni Mfg. Co. (1949) 90 Cal. App. 2d 106, 108.) 
 
Here, the SAC is unclear as the
allegations mix Frank’s own interests with that of others. (See SAC at 2:25-3:4
[discussing Downey], 5:5-6 [discussing Davis], 4:22-28 [discussing Langham],
among others.) As such, the Complaint lacks coherence as the individual rights
of each previous plaintiff are blended in with allegations pertaining to Frank.
Plaintiff’s SAC also appears to contain a multitude of conclusory allegations
as well. Conclusory allegations, without facts to support them, are ambiguous
and uncertain. (Ankeny v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. (1979) 88
Cal.App.3d 531.) Throughout the SAC, there are references criminal and civil
law as well as federal, state, and city codes. The Complaint is unclear as to
whether Cockrell has a private right of action to bring the alleged breaches of
Cal. Pen. Code statutes (see SAC at Fourth Cause of Action.) Further, there
appears to be references to undefined nouns. (See SAC [“management/owners” (4:18),
“manager” (3:12), “Management” (4:21), “Defendant Heirs” (6:8), “owners”
(6:22), among others].) 
 
As pled, the Court agrees with Moving
Defendants that the Complaint is so uncertain that Moving Defendants cannot
reasonably respond. As pled, the Complaint would require Defendants to determine
which claims are being asserted against it and which alleged actions not only
apply to Defendants, but also comprise each claim. 
 
Frank’s response does not address the deficiencies
within the SAC. Rather, it contains reiterations of the allegations and Frank’s
ability to prove them at trial.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to amend is liberally
granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability,
amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (1993),
18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its discretion when
it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the facts and the
nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it is probable
from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that
the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4
Cal.App.4th 857, 889.) 
 
This is Frank’s third pleading and there
are no substantial changes from the FAC. (Compare FAC and SAC.) Accordingly, it is probable
from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that
the plaintiff cannot state a claim. 
 
The Court does not allow leave to amend. 
 
-----
 
Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories & Request for Admissions and Sanctions Against Legal
Counsel for Defendants
 
As the Court has sustained the Demurrer to
the SAC without leave to amend, the Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories & Request for Admissions and Sanctions Against Legal
Counsel for Defendants is MOOT.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Victor Martinez &
Associates, Inc.; Victor Martinez; Mario Rivera; Stephanie Rivera Esparza; and
Michael Esparza’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiff Frank Cockrell’s Motion to Compel Responses
to Form Interrogatories& Requests for Admissions and Sanctions Against
Legal Counsel for Defendants is MOOT.


