 Case Number:  22AVCV00005    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  A14 The Motion to Quash is DENIED. Defendants moved under Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10 to quash the service of the summons. Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 418.10 provides, in relevant part:
(a) A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following
purposes:
(1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.
[. . .]
(d) No default may be entered against the defendant before
expiration of his or her time to plead, and no motion under this section, or
under Section 473 or 473.5 when joined with a motion under this section, or
application to the court or stipulation of the parties for an extension of the
time to plead, shall be deemed a general appearance by the defendant.
(e) A defendant or cross-defendant may make a motion under
this section and simultaneously answer, demur, or move to strike the complaint
or cross-complaint.
[. . .]
(3) Failure to make a motion under this section at the time
of filing a demurrer or motion to strike constitutes a waiver of the issues of
lack of personal jurisdiction, inadequacy of process, inadequacy of service of
process, inconvenient forum, and delay in prosecution.
Here, the time for Defendants to respond to the Complaint
has passed. Defendants moved to set aside their defaults which was subsequently
denied. Only upon a denial of their Motion to Set Aside did Defendants move to
quash the service of the Summons and Complaint. That is, Defendants did not
collaterally bring a Motion to Quash with the Motion to Set Aside as
contemplated by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(d). The Court believes that Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(e)(3)’s waiver is necessarily applicable to this
motion as Defendants attempted to file a pleading to set aside their defaults
without disputing issues of lack of personal jurisdiction, inadequacy of
process, inadequacy of service of process, inconvenient forum, and delay in
prosecution.
Defendants have also filed a document titled “Response to
Application for Default Judgment.” The Court, in its discretion, STRIKES this
document as a pleading “pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws
of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (See Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 436.) This document is not premised on any statute nor is it a noticed
motion. The Court further notes that this document is inapposite as there is no
request for default judgment that has not been ruled upon. (See infra.)
For clarity, the Court’s records show that Plaintiffs’
Default Judgment was denied on July 05, 2024. Plaintiffs’ complaint does not
include an amount for damages. (See Complaint, Prayer for Relief.) Plaintiffs
attempted to rectify this via the filing of two Statement of Damages on June
13, 2024. However, Defendants were placed in default on March 13, 2024, over a
year before the service of a Statement of Damages. Further, Statement of
Damages are used for personal injury, wrongful death cases, or cases seeking
punitive damages. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 425.11 and 425.115.) Here, the
case is marked as a wrongful eviction case and the causes of action suggest
breach of contract, habitability, negligence, and harassment among other
things. The Court notes that there are requests for treble and punitive
damages; however, the June 13, 2024 filed Statements of Damages do not request
punitive damages. Thus, it appears that the filed Statements of Damages were
not used for the purposes contemplated by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 425.11 and
425.115, but instead were used as an attempt to circumvent the notice issue
that constitutes a deficiency for a potential default judgment. 