  Case Number:  20AVCV00801    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury – motor
vehicle action. Plaintiff Ashley Cabrera, by and through her guardian ad litem,
Carol Leon (“Plaintiff”), alleges that Defendants Scott Ali Fishback
(“Fishback”) and Antelope Valley Schools Transportation Agency (“AVSTA” and
collectively “Defendants”) were negligent and their acts were the legal and
proximate cause of injuries and damages to Plaintiff. Plaintiff further alleges
that the acts led to a motor vehicle accident that occurred on April 26, 2019 at
the northbound 101 Freeway near Los Osos Valley Road. 
 
On November 09, 2020, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging one cause of action for Motor Vehicle. 
 
On February 11, 2021, AVTA filed
its Answer.
 
On October 10, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a substitution of attorney, substituting Lane Grey Friedman for Gary A.
Laff.
 
On December 29, 2022, Gregory E.
Stone was associated as co-counsel in this matter for Plaintiff. 
 
On January 05, 2024, the
Vartazarian Law Firm, APC was associated in on behalf of Plaintiff in this
matter.
 
On August 07, 2024, an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held.
 
On August 12, 2024, Defendants filed
their Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories from
Plaintiff Ashley Cabrera (“Motion to Compel Further Special Interrogatories”).
 
On August 22, 2024, Defendants
filed an Ex Parte Application for Order Continuing the Trial Date and all
Related Dates, subsequently granted on August 26, 2024.
 
On September 11, 2024, Defendants
filed their Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Complete the Defense Medical
Examination by Joshua Prager, M.D., M.S. (“Motion to Compel Medical
Examination”).
 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition to the Motion to Compel Further Special Interrogatories
only.
 
On October 01, 2024, Defendants filed
their Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition to the Motion to Compel Further Special
Interrogatories and a Notice of Non-Opposition to the Motion to Compel Medical
Examination. 
 
On October 02, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition to the Motion to Compel Medical Examination. An Opposition “shall be filed with the
court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days. . .before the
hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) The hearing on this matter is set
for October 08, 2024. The Court notes that September 27, 2024 was a holiday.
Accordingly, an Opposition was due by September 24, 2024. However, “No paper
may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely submitted for
filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed
paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.” (California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1300(d).) 
 
On October 02, 2024, after the
Opposition to the Motion to Compel Medical Examination was filed, Defendants
filed a Sur-Reply to the aforementioned Opposition. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Compelling Further Interrogatories
– Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, a court may order a party to serve a
further response to interrogatories when the court finds that any of the
following apply:¿¿(1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete; (2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate; and (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(a).)¿Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).)¿¿“Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(a).) If an interrogatory
cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible and,
if the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond
fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a
reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other
natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally
available to the propounding party. (Id. at (b)-(c).) “If only a part of
an interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be
answered. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc § 2030.240(a).) If an objection is made to an
interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for the
objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection is based
on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be clearly
stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is
protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that
claim shall be expressly asserted. (Id. at (b).)¿ 
 
-----
 
Standard for Compelling Physical Examination – “As a general matter, a defendant may
obtain a physical or mental examination of the plaintiff, in accordance with
those provisions, if the plaintiff has placed his or her physical or mental
condition in controversy.” (Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.
App. 4th 249, 258.) 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.220(a) states,
“[i]n any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries,
any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of
the following conditions are satisfied:¿(1) The examination does not include
any diagnostic test¿or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.¿
(2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence
of the examinee.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §2032.220(a).) Subdivision (b) provides,
“[a]¿defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court
after that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action, whichever
occurs first.”¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §2032.220(b).)¿ 
¿ 
Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §2032.250(a),
“[i]f a defendant who has demanded a physical examination under this article,
on receipt of the plaintiff's response to that demand, deems that any
modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to the physical
examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order compelling
compliance with the demand. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration…”    
 
-----
 
Meet and Confer Requirement
– Before filing a motion to compel further, the moving party is required to
meet and confer with the party to engage in a reasonable and good faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §§ Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b), 2016.040.)¿ A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing
such an attempt occurred. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)¿¿¿ 
 
A
motion compelling compliance with a demand for a physical examination must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.,
§2032.250(a).)
 
Yelena
Bakman (“Bakman”)’s declaration attached to the Motion to Compel Further
Special Interrogatories. (Motion to Compel Further Special Interrogatories,
Decl. Bakman at ¶ 4.) Bakman’s declarations, attached to both motions, include
a discussion of the IDC that occurred as an attempt to meet and confer. (Id.
at Decl. Bakman ¶ 5; Motion to Compel Medical Examination, Decl. Bakman, ¶ 4.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Judicial Notice – Defendants request judicial notice of the
following:
 
·        
Exhibit
D – Food and Drug Administration Warning Label for Accutane;
·        
Exhibit
E – Food and Drug Administration Information Page for Accutane;
·        
Exhibit
F – Food and Drug Administration “Isotretinoin Capsule Information;” and
·        
Exhibit
G – Publication by American Academy of Dermatology Association Listing of Known
Side Effects of Accutane
 
 
All requests for judicial notice are GRANTED under Cal. Evid. Code §§
452(c) for U.S. Food and Drug Administration publications, and 452(h) for the
publication by the American Academy of Dermatology Association.
 
Application – Both
motions concern Plaintiff’s responses to inquiries regarding Accutane.
Specifically, the special interrogatory at issue, Special Interrogatory No. 11,
asks if Plaintiff took Accutane, and the Motion to Compel Medical Examination pertains
to questions asked by Joshua Prager, M.D., M.S. (“Dr. Prager”) regarding
medication Plaintiff is taking or has taken and follow-up questions. 
 
Regarding Special Interrogatory
No. 11, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s objection on the basis of privacy is
meritless as Accutane is known for side effects, including those that overlap
with Plaintiff’s claimed symptomology and damages, and so the Accutane question
is necessary to evaluate Plaintiff’s injury claims and Plaintiff is the only
person who knows when she took the medication. Defendants further present that Plaintiff
has waived her right to privacy by making injury contentions on the same
subject matter.
 
Plaintiff argues that her use of
prescription acne medication is not discoverable because it is irrelevant to
this case. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that defense counsel does not
demonstrate any medical evidence or diagnosis that prescription acne medication
is related to Plaintiff’s injuries. Plaintiff presents that her acne medication
is protected by the California constitution. Plaintiff believes that, if the
acne treatment is related to Plaintiff’s symptomology, the Court should order
Dr. Prager to submit an expert declaration and presents that Dr. Prager will
not want or be able to testify because it will open the subject to
cross-examination and be disproved by Plaintiff’s expert. 
 
Defendants’ Reply reiterates
their moving arguments: (1) the information is relevant as it goes to
Plaintff’s claims, (2) the information can only be discovered from the
Plaintiff; (3) Plaintiff’s privacy objections are without merit as the
medication needs to be explored as to the causation of the claimed injuries;
and (4) the question is narrowly tailored. 
 
The
constitutional right of privacy is not absolute; it may be abridged to
accommodate a compelling public interest. One such interest, as evidenced by
California's broad discovery statutes, is “the historically important state
interest of facilitating the ascertainment of truth in connection with legal
proceedings.” (Moskowitz v. Superior Court (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 313, 316
[overruled on other grounds], citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 13
Cal.3d 844, 857.) Moreover, an appropriate protective order can make an
invasion of privacy non-serious. (TBG Ins. Services v. Superior Court
(Zieminski) (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 454; Britt, supra, 20 Cal.
3d at 849.) No partial limitation is required here as it appears the privacy
claim was waived. That is, when a plaintiff places their medical conditions at
issue by the allegations in their Complaint, they must expect that discovery
will include relevant medical history which relates to his claimed injuries
and, here, (1) Plaintiff has alleged fibromyalgia and migraines, hills sachs
lesion as a result of the incident in her response to Special Interrogatory No.
2. (see Motion to Compel Further Special Interrogatory, Exh. C); and (2)
Defendants have highlighted that headaches and musculoskeletal symptoms are
known side effects of Accutane (see id. at Exh. D). (See Britt, supra,
20 Cal.3d at 864; see also Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 842.) Plaintiff has placed conditions such as headaches and
musculoskeletal injuries at issue for this case and Defendants have shown that
Accutane may affect such injuries or damages. 
 
The Motion to Compel
Further Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
Regarding the Motion to
Compel Further Examination, Defendants present that the statutory scheme does
not bar an inquiry into medical history and cite to case precedent to show that
courts have allowed doctors at medical examinations to ask questions in order
to form opinions. Defendants contend that the questions Dr. Prager wanted to
ask concern Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, treatments, and are needed to
determine any interactions between medication and symptomology. Defendants
highlight Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory responses (Motion to Compel Medical
Examination, Exh. B); and Plaintiff’s own expert Laura Edinger, D.O., was able
to opine about the subject matter during her examination (id. at Exh. C).
 
Plaintiff presents that
Defendants are not entitled to an oral medical interrogation of Plaintiff and
that they are only allowed to interview Plaintiff at her deposition. Plaintiff
argues that she provided her medical history and prescription usage in the full
medical records that have been produced. 
 
The Court is not swayed
by Plaintiff’s arguments. Defendants have shown that there is overlap between
Plaintiff’s medication and her claimed symptomology resulting from the incident
that underlies this case. (See analysis ante.) The Court’s previous
analysis applies as Plaintiff has claimed migraines and hills sachs lesions
(see Motion to Compel Medical Examination, Exh. B.) and, for the evidence shows
Plaintiff’s own expert felt the need to opine on headaches, migraines, nerve
blocks, etc. (id. at Exh. C.) It appears that good cause exists for some
inquiry into Plaintiff’s medical history and if the medications affect any of
Plaintiff’s presented symptomology. However, Defendants have not provided a
scope. The moving papers simply discuss questions regarding medication. The
Court is not inclined to allow this medical examination to become a fishing
expedition. The Court inquires at the hearing as to scope. 
 
Plaintiff has also
provided case precedent that a plaintiff should be permitted to have the
assistance and protection of an attorney at a medical examination. 
 
Defendants’ Sur-Reply is
inapposite as it simply requests the Court to exercise its discretion with
respect to its consideration of Plaintiff’s belated Opposition.
 
The Motion to Compel
Medical Examination is GRANTED subject to a scope to be determined at the
hearing and an attorney’s presence.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Antelope Valley
Schools Transportation Agency and Scott Fishback’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories from Plaintiff Ashley Cabrera is GRANTED.
 
Defendants Antelope Valley Schools Transportation
Agency and Scott Fishback’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Complete the Defense
Medical Examination by Joshua Prager, M.D., M.S., is GRANTED subject to a scope
to be determined at the hearing.