 Case Number:  22STCV38968    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Order
to Show Cause Re: Contempt for Violating Court Order
On December 15, 2022, Plaintiff Queen Esther Square, LP filed a complaint
against Defendants Ken Trimmer and Claudia Trimmer, alleging causes of action
for breach of lease, account stated and money had and received.
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment against Defendant
Ken Trimmer was granted. Judgment was entered against Defendant Ken Trimmer on
the same date.
On April 22, 2024, the court ordered that Defendant Ken Trimmer immediately
deliver: a 2022 Black Tesla Model S Vehicle, and a platinum Rolex Yacht Master
40 millimeter watch, to the levying officer of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department, which shall be applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment
entered herein.
Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for an OSC Re: Contempt and
Sanctions. 
No opposition has been filed.
A party’s willful disobedience of a court order compelling
discovery is punishable as contempt of court.  Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(e).  A contempt sanction requires proof of a willful failure to
obey a court order.  Chapman v. Superior Court, 261 Cal.
App. 2d 194, 201 (1968).  “ ‘The power of the court to punish for contempt
is indeed broad, but it is not unlimited.  It is a drastic remedy, to be
employed only when necessary to the proper and orderly conduct of judicial
proceedings.  A charge of contempt of court must be considered judicially
as the question of guilt of any criminal offense must be, and a judge may not
punish for contempt merely because he has suffered annoyance through the
failure of some order he has made to receive instant observance.’ ”  Id.,
quoting Application of Burns, 161 Cal. App. 2d 137, 141
(1958).   
Civil contempt proceedings are governed by Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1209 to 1222.  If a party is adjudicated to be guilt of
contempt, “a fine may be imposed on him or her not exceeding one thousand
dollars ($1,000), payable to the court, or he or she may be imprisoned not
exceeding five days, or both.  In addition, a person who is subject to a
court order as a party to the action, or any agent of this person, who is
adjudged guilty of contempt for violating that court order may be ordered to
pay to the party initiating the contempt proceeding the reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs incurred by this party in connection with the contempt
proceeding.”  Code Civ. Proc. § 1218, subd. (a).   
 
On July 26, 2024, the court issued an order to show case re: contempt for
violating the court order. 
“A contempt proceeding is
commenced by the filing of an affidavit and a request for an order to show
cause.  ([Code Civ. Proc.,] § 1211, subds. (a), (b).)  After notice
to the opposing party’s lawyer, the court (if satisfied with the sufficiency of
the affidavit) must sign an order to show cause re contempt in which the date
and time for a hearing are set forth.  (§ 1212; [citations].)  The
order to show cause acts as a summons to appear in court on a certain day and,
as its name suggests, to show cause why a certain thing should not be
done.  [Citations.]  Unless the citee has concealed himself from the
court, he must be personally served with the affidavit and the order to show
cause; otherwise, the court lacks jurisdiction to proceed.  (§ 1015
[in civil actions in which a party is represented by an attorney, ‘the service
of papers, when required, must be upon the attorney instead of the party,
except service of subpoenas, of writs, and other process issued in the suit,
and of papers to bring him into contempt’]; see also § 1016;
[citations].)”  Cedars-Sinai Imaging Medical Group v. Superior Court,
83 Cal. App. 4th 1281, 1286-87 (2000) (italics in original). 
Here, as indicated on the
proof of service, the order granting the ex parte application for an OSC
re: contempt was served by electronic service. No proof of service has been
filed showing Defendant was personally served with notice of the OSC Re:
Contempt. Therefore, the OSC Re: Contempt is CONTINUED to allow Plaintiff to
personally serve Defendant with notice of the order to show cause.  Although
a contempt may arise, as here, in the context of a civil action, a contempt
proceeding is punitive and separate from the cause out of which it arises (Kroneberger
v. Superior Court (1961) 196 Cal.App.2d 206, 210), and it is for this
reason that every "i" must be dotted and every "t" crossed. (Cedars-Sinai
Imaging Medical Group v. Superior Court, supra, 83 Cal. App. at 1287.)
Conclusion
The OSC Re: Contempt is CONTINUED to allow Plaintiff
to personally serve Defendant with notice of the OSC Re:
Contempt.