 Case Number:  23SMCV05319    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Paolinetti v. City
of West Hollywood, Case No. 23SMCV05319
Hearing Date: April
22, 2024
Plaintiff’s Petition
for an Order Relieving Petitioner from Section 954.4
 
Plaintiff seeks
relief from Government Code Section 945.4 requirements to bring a timely government
tort claim against the City of West Hollywood in this trip and fall matter. Plaintiff
alleges the late filing resulted from counsel’s mistake, inadvertence and
excusable neglect. 
 
A government tort
claim must be presented within six months after accrual of the cause of action.
Gov. Code §911.2. A plaintiff who fails to timely file a claim may seek relief
for leave to present a late claim which must be presented within one year after
accrual of the cause of action. Gov. Code §911.4(b). “If the public entity
denies an application for leave to file a late claim, the claimant must obtain
a court order for relief from the requirements of the claims act before filing
suit.” City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 621,
627. A petition for such order must be filed within six months after the
application is denied. Gov. Code §946.6. 
 
The court must
relieve petitioner from the requirements of¿Section 945.4¿if failure to present
the claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect,
unless the public entity would be prejudiced. Gov. Code §946.6(c)(1). A party
seeking relief based on a claim of mistake must establish diligence in
investigating and pursuing the claim. Bettencourt v. Los Rios Community
College Dist. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 270, 276.
 
Plaintiff alleges
injury due to stepping into an unguarded tree well on December 30, 2022
(petition, para. 1). He presented a tort claim to the City of Los Angeles,
which was rejected by operation of law due to the City’s failure to respond
(petition, para. 2). He then presented an application to the City of West
Hollywood for leave to present a late claim on September 15, 2023; it was
rejected September 18, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel declares failure to present a timely claim was the result of his
mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect because he did not discover the actual
location of the fall was in West Hollywood, not the City of Los Angeles.
Halpern Decl. ¶ 6. Counsel states in August, he began searching for adjacent
property owners and cross-referenced plaintiff’s photographs with Google street
views and “believed that the location of the fall was within the boundaries of
the City of West Los Angeles [sic].” Halpern Decl. ¶ 5. Upon discovery, he
immediately prepared and presented an application for filing a late government
tort claim. Id. at ¶ 7.
 
The City argues plaintiff
failed to make a prima facie showing he is entitled to relief by failing to
show a statutory excuse for failing to meet the claims deadline. 
 
The petition was
timely filed. However, plaintiff fails to carry his burden under Gov. Code
§946.6(c)(1) to show the failure to timely file was based upon excusable
neglect.
 
“The mere recital
of mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect is not sufficient to
warrant relief.” Dep’t. of Water & Power v. Superior Court (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 1288, 1293. Such relief is only available if “failure to timely
present a claim was reasonable when tested by the objective ‘reasonably prudent
person’ standard,” and “the party seeking relief must establish the failure to
discover the fact in the exercise of reasonable diligence.” Id. “The
party seeking relief based on a claim of mistake must establish he was diligent
in investigating and pursuing the claim [citation] and must establish the
necessary elements justifying relief by the preponderance of the evidence.” Id.

 
The petition
indicates it was only after Los Angeles’ denial by operation of law that counsel
began to prepare to file suit and began an investigation to determine the exact
location of the incident. Counsel’s declaration does not indicate any attempt
to determine the correct location of the incident, either via a site
inspection, meeting with his client or using a map until after the statutory
time to file a claim had run (petition, paras. 4-6). It was only upon preparing
to file the complaint that counsel began to review photographs and property
information to confirm the incident location (petition, paras. 5-6, Halpern
decl. paras. 5-7). There was no information provide showing why such
investigation could not have been done previously, such that a timely claim
could have been filed. 
 
Such failure does
not meet the “reasonably prudent person” standard; in the exercise of reasonable
diligence and prudence, the true location could have and should have been
determined in time to make a timely claim. Plaintiff has not shown by a preponderance
of the evidence that he is entitled to relief. DENIED. 