  Case Number:  23SMCV04259    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Air Venezia, LLC
v. Love, Case No. 23SMCV04259
Hearing Date: April
22, 2024
Defendant Love’s
Motion for New Trial
 
Defendant tenant
moves for a new trial in this residential unlawful detainer case, arguing
prejudicial error.
 
Defendant requests
that the court take judicial notice of a prior unlawful detainer filed by
plaintiff against defendant, Air Venezia v. Love, 23SMCV01942, filed 5/2/33.
The court takes judicial notice. 
 
Defendant argues
that because judgment was entered in her favor in that case, plaintiff had no
lawful reason to refuse defendant’s proffered partial rent payment. That
argument is not proper on a motion for new trial, as it could have been raised
prior to trial, and was not mentioned in the trial of this matter. The
agreed-upon jury instruction CACI 4327 was given.
 
“A notice of
intention to move for a new trial is deemed to be a motion for new trial on all
grounds stated in the notice. CCP § 659. A new trial may be granted for irregularity
in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the
court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial.’ CCP §657(1). “Irregularity” is broadly interpreted to encompass
many forms of misconduct and error that would also be ground for mistrial or
reversal on appeal. It includes misconduct by the trial judge or “any other
departure from the due and orderly method of disposition of an action, by which
the substantial rights of a party have been materially affected.” Gay v.
Torrance (1904) 145 Cal. 144, 149; Montoya v. Barragan (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1226, 1229-1230. 
 
Another ground for
a new trial is error in law. CCP § 657(7). “A new trial cannot be granted for
error of law unless the error was prejudicial (see Cal. Const. Art. VI, § 13).
I.e., the error must likely have affected the outcome of the trial: “If it
clearly appears that the error could not have affected the result of the trial,
the court is bound to deny the motion.” Bristow v. Ferguson (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d
823, 826. “The error must have been timely raised during trial (e.g., by motion
or objection). 
 
“The automatic
exception (i.e., “deemed excepted to”) applies to the trial court's “giving an
instruction, refusing to give an instruction, or modifying an instruction
requested …” [CCP § 647; see McCarty v. State of Calif. Dept. of Transp. (2008)
164 CA4th 955, 984, 79 CR3d 777, 797—appellant was “deemed to have excepted to
‘giving … [or] refusing to give an instruction’” (brackets in original) (new
trial granted based on error in law).” Id. at ¶ 18:195.1. 
 
Defendant argues the
court made an error of law by allowing an improper verdict form to be submitted
to the jury and excluding defendant’s evidence.
 
Defendant argues claims
her proposed verdict question regarding defendant’s rent payments speaks to the
affirmative defense that she made lawful rent payments under LA Municipal Code
Article 5.3 Section 151.33. 
 
Defendant claims
exclusion of evidence regarding plaintiff’s violation of the federal Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) was prejudicial error because there were no
grounds to exclude the defense. 
 
Defendant asserts
the court abused its discretion by excluding a portion of defense counsel’s closing
argument regarding defendant’s affirmative defense, and the Court displayed
bias and prejudice towards the defendant due to her disability. 
 
Regarding the
verdict form, plaintiff notes the verdict form was proper. Defendant’s proposed
question “Did Defendant LOVE pay any rent towards AIR VENEZIA LLC for April 1,
2023-June 1, 2023?” was not included in the verdict form, as the question required
the jury to determine a question of law rather than a question of fact.
Plaintiff refused partial payment due to the ongoing unlawful detainer matters.
Questions of law are the province of the court, not the jury, so the question
was properly excluded. 
 
Regarding defendant’s
argument that the court wrongfully excluded arguments regarding the FDCPA, plaintiff
argues the FDCPA should not have been mentioned because the FDCPA did not apply
to this case, nor was notice served as to its inclusion. This was not a debt
collection case, nor is plaintiff a “debt collector” under the FDCPA. Defendant’s
citations to New York cases from 1998 is unavailing. This was excluded prior to
trial, and exclusion at trial was proper. 
 
Defendant’s
arguments regarding improperly included SCEP fees are irrelevant, as the Notice
relied upon by the landlord only dealt with base rent and did not include SCEP
fees. Evidence regarding SCEP fees was not at issue and was properly excluded.
 
Regarding the
location of posting of the RSO notice, this question was included in the
verdict at defendant’s request. Defendant raises an issue of an alleged exhibit
that she argues was improperly excluded. However, defendant fails to identify
what exhibit she alleges was improperly excluded.
 
In response to a
jury question, the jury was instructed to use their recollection and notes in
making their decision. Because multiple court reporters reported different days
of the trial, the reporter who reported the testimony regarding the location of
the RSO notice was not present during deliberations. Defendant did not request
to call in the other reporter, nor did defendant seek to recess deliberations. 
 
Based upon their
recollection of the evidence, the jury found notice was properly posted. Plaintiff
argues defendant’s argument regarding the exclusion of the posting location of
the required RSO certificate is not prejudicial error because the jury’s decision
was based on their memories and notes. The court agrees.
 
Regarding the
court’s alleged bias against defendant due to her disability, the court did not
display any bias or prejudice or make any discriminatory remarks or actions toward
any party for any reason. 
 
Defendant
requested the court provide both a court reporter and a CART reporter; these were
provided as requested. Moving party argued the court disallowed court and/or
CART reporters. The minute orders reflect that both CART and court reporters
were present every day during trial. 
 
The minute orders of
pre-trial hearings reveal the following: On January 22, 2024 the court did not
order a court or CART reporter, as defense counsel Cole was engaged in trial,
so FSC and trial dates were continued so she could be present. On February 1, 2024
defense counsel Cole was in trial in Long Beach, so no hearing was held, as
defense counsel was not present. On February 13, 2024 a CART reporter was
present but not a court reporter; the case was not called but only continued. 
 
Moving party
defendant has the burden of proof on a motion for new trial; defendant fails to
meet the burden of showing either an irregularity in the proceedings or an
error of law. DENIED. 
 