 Case Number:  24SMCV02124    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Berg v. Wright
Medical Technology Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV02124
MOTION:                  Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice 
HEARING DATE:   7/17/2024

 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written
application upon due notice to all interested parties, as well as service on
the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that
attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California and does
not perform regular or substantial business, professional or other activities
in the State. 
 
The
written application must provide the following information:
 
(1)
 The applicant's residence and office address;
(2)
 The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the
dates of admission;
(3)
 That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;
(4)
 That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)
 The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and
(6)
 The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the
State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
(CRC Rule 9.40(d).)
 
ANALYSIS

 
            Counsel George
E. McLaughlin applies for admission pro hac vice in order to represent
Plaintiff James Berg. Counsel provides all the required information. (CRC Rule
9.40.) The Court will allow counsel’s admission pro hac vice. That said, the
Court notes that admission pro hac vice is not a right. Counsel states that he
has represented clients in four other California cases in the preceding two
years. In light of this frequency of representation, further pro hac vice
applications may be appropriately denied at the discretion of the court. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.