  Case Number:  21STCV03788    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WESLEY
  ROBBINS,  
  
         vs.
 
CARL SHAFF,
  II, et al.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV03788
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 5, 2024



 
Defendants Carl Shaff’s
(deceased), Edwin Kawasaki’s, Steven Radell’s, William Miller’s, William
Janson’s, Caj Brejtfus’, and Lois Evans’ motion to quash pro per Plaintiff
Wesley Robbins’ subpoena directed to third-party Chris Tagawa is denied.

Defendants
Carl Shaff’s (deceased), Edwin Kawasaki’s, Steven Radell’s, William Miller’s,
William Janson’s, Caj Brejtfus’, and Lois Evans’ motion to quash pro per
Plaintiff Wesley Robbins’ subpoena directed to third-party Betty Green is
denied.
Defendants
Carl Shaff’s (deceased), Edwin Kawasaki’s, Steven Radell’s, William Miller’s,
William Janson’s, Caj Brejtfus’, and Lois Evans’ motion to quash pro per
Plaintiff Wesley Robbins’ subpoena directed to third-party Gardena Valley
Baptist Church is denied.
 
Defendants Carl Shaff (deceased) (“Shaff”), Edwin Kawasaki
(“Kawasaki”), Steven Radell (“Radell”), William Miller (“Miller”), William
Janson (“Janson”), Caj Brejtfus (“Brejtfus”), and Lois Evans (“Evans”) (collectively,
“Moving Defendants”) move to quash pro per Plaintiff Wesley Robbins’ (“Robbins”)
(“Plaintiff”) subpoena directed to third-party Chris Tagawa (“Tagawa”) on the
grounds that the subpoena seeks documents irrelevant to any of Plaintiff’s
claims in this case, does not seek documents reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence, and is vastly overbroad as to time and
scope, burdensome and oppressive. 
(Notice Quash Tagawa, pg. 2.)
Moving Defendants move to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena directed to
third-party Betty Green (“Green”) as secretary of the Federated Philatelic
Clubs of Southern California (“FPCSC”) on the grounds that the subpoena seeks
documents irrelevant to any of Plaintiff’s claims in this case, does not seek
documents reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, and is vastly overbroad as to time and scope, burdensome and
oppressive.  (Notice Quash Green, pg. 2.)
Moving Defendants move to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena directed to
third-party Gardena Valley Baptist Church (“GVBC”) on the grounds that the
subpoena seeks documents irrelevant to any of Plaintiff’s claims in this case,
does not seek documents reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence, and is vastly overbroad as to time and scope, burdensome and
oppressive.  (Notice Quash GVBC, pg. 2.)
 
CRC
Violations
CRC,
Rule 3.1345 provides, in part, “any motion involving the content of a discovery
request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate
statement. The motions that require a separate statement include a motion: . .
. [¶] (5) To compel or to quash the production of documents or tangible things
at a deposition.”  (CRC, Rule
3.1345(a)(5).)
In
lieu of a separate statement, the court may direct the parties to file a
“concise outline” of the discovery demands and responses in dispute.  (CRC, Rule 3.1345(b)(2) [stating no separate
statement needed “[w]hen a court has allowed the moving party to submit—in
place of a separate statement—a concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute”].)
Moving
Defendants failed to submit a separate statement with their motions to quash
the subpoenas on Tagawa, Green, and GVBC in violation of CRC, Rule 3.1345(a)(5),
or request permission from the Court to instead file a “concise outline” of the
discovery demands and responses in dispute in violation of CRC, Rule
3.1345(b)(2).  However, the Court, in its
discretion, will consider Moving Defendants’ motions.
 
Meet
and Confer
A
motion to quash a subpoena for business records must be accompanied by a
declaration showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
of the dispute” between the party requesting the records and the “consumer” or
“employee” whose records are involved or counsel for such person.  (C.C.P. §§1985.3(g), 1985.6(f)(4).)
Moving
Defendants’ counsel declares that on November 8, 2023, he sent Plaintiff a
letter outlining the reasons why the subpoenas he served by email were
defective and that if the subpoenas were not withdrawn, it would necessitate
filing the instant motions to quash. 
(Decl. of Kunstler ¶3.)  Moving
Defendants’ counsel declares Plaintiff refused to withdraw the subpoenas.  (Decl. of Kunstler ¶4, Exh. C.)
Moving
Defendants sufficiently demonstrated a good faith attempt at informal
resolution of the dispute.  (C.C.P. §§1985.3(g),
1985.6(f)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court
will consider Moving Defendants’ motions.
 
1.     Motion to Quash- Tagawa 
Procedural
History
On
November 8, 2023, Plaintiff served a subpoena duces tecum on Tagawa requesting
Tagawa produce eighteen categories of financial documents regarding dismissed
Defendant Philatelic Society of Los Angeles (“PSLA”).  (Decl. of Kunstler ¶2, Exh. A.)
Moving
Defendants filed the instant motion on December 12, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 20,
2024.  Moving Defendants filed their
reply on March 28, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  (C.C.P.
§1987.1(a).)  “The following persons may
make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a): [¶] (1) A party.”  (C.C.P. §1987.1(b)(1).)
A party may only discover matters, not
privileged, that are relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action and that are either admissible evidence or “reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (C.C.P. §2017.010.) 
Broad discovery requests are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.  (See Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224-225.) 
 
Discussion
Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on Tagawa is denied on the
basis Moving Defendants failed to meet their burden to demonstrate Plaintiff’s
subpoena is not relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action and Plaintiff’s
subpoena requests are not “reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”  Moving Defendants merely argue “the mass of
documents, demanded as far back as 2008, is obviously burdensome; the fact that
they are made this late in this case, and bear no relevance to it, makes the
demands oppressive.”  (Motion Tagawa, pg.
4.)  Further, Plaintiff’s subpoena to
Tagawa seeks the discovery of financial records from PSLA that are relevant to
the causes of action alleged in his pleading, specifically pertaining to the
conduct of PSLA members who are still parties to this litigation.  Finally, Tagawa has not filed any objections
to Plaintiff’s subpoena on the basis of privilege or requested a protective
order.
Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on Tagawa is denied.
 
Conclusion
Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on Tagawa is denied.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
2.     Motion to Quash- Green
Procedural
History
On
November 2, 2023, Plaintiff served a subpoena duces tecum on Green requesting
Green produce thirty categories of financial documents regarding dismissed
Defendant FPCSC.  (Decl. of Kunstler ¶2,
Exh. A.)
Moving
Defendants filed the instant motion on December 12, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 20,
2024.  Moving Defendants filed their
reply on March 28, 2024.
 
Discussion
Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on Green is denied on the same
basis as Moving Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena to Tagawa,
with the clarification that Plaintiff’s subpoena pertains to the conduct of
FPCSC’s members who are
still parties to this litigation.
Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on Green is denied.
 
Conclusion
Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on Green is denied.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
3.     Motion to Quash- GVBC
Procedural
History
On
November 4, 2023, Plaintiff served a subpoena duces tecum on GVBC requesting GVBC
produce two categories of documents regarding GVBC’s communications and
dealings with dismissed Defendant PSLA. 
(Decl. of Kunstler ¶2, Exh. A.)
Moving
Defendants filed the instant motion on December 13, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 20,
2024.  As of the date of this hearing no
reply has been filed.
 
Discussion
Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on GVBC is denied on the same
basis as Moving Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena to Tagawa.
Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on GVBC is denied.
 
Conclusion
Moving
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena on GVBC is denied.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
April _____, 2024
                                                                             





  