 Case Number:  22STCV30299    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JONATHAN
  POWERS, et al.,
  
         vs.
 
EQUITY WAVE
  LENDING, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV30299
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 5, 2024



 
Defendant
Hightechlending, Inc.’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Jonathan S. Powers, individually
and as attorney-in-fact for Phyllis A. Powers and Jonathan S. Powers Roth IRA’s
and Henry Kreuter’s third amended complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd and 4th
causes of action.
 
Defendant Hightechlending, Inc.’s (“Hightechlending”) (“Moving
Defendant”) demurs to the to the third amended complaint (“TAC”) of Plaintiffs Jonathan
S. Powers (“Jon”), individually and as attorney-in-fact for Phyllis A. Powers
(“Phyllis”) and Jonathan S. Powers Roth IRA, and Henry Kreuter (“Kreuter”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §§430.10 et seq.) 
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)
(3) The demurring party shall file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which
the demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving
the objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Hightechlending’s counsel failed to file with the demurrer
a meet and confer declaration in violation of C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).  However, a determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule
or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4).)  Therefore, the Court will consider
Hightechlending’s demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiffs
filed their complaint on September 15, 2022. 
Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint (“FAC”) on October 6,
2022.  Plaintiffs filed their second
amended complaint (“SAC”) on September 8, 2023. 
Plaintiffs filed the operative TAC on February 21, 2024, against
Hightechlending and Non-Moving Defendants Equity Wave Lending, Inc. (“EWL”),
Jack J. Suddarth (“Suddarth”), Brian Hedger (“Hedger”), Next Day Appraisals,
LLC (“Next Day”), Brett A. Varon (“Varon”), AAMC Orange County, Inc. (“AAMC”),
Sandra K. Gramlich (“Gramlich”), Gregory Moore (“Greg”), and Edith A. Moore (“Edith”)
(collectively, “Defendants”), alleging five causes of action: (1) breach of
fiduciary duty [against EWL and Suddarth]; (2) negligence [against all
Defendants]; (3) constructive fraud [against EWL and Suddarth];
(4) misrepresentation [against all Defendants]; and (5) fraudulent
misrepresentation and concealment [against Hedger].  
Hightechlending filed the instant demurrer on March 4, 2024.
 Plaintiffs filed their opposition on March
25, 2024.  Hightechlending filed its reply
on March 27, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege in March 2018, Jon and Phyllis were
presented with an investment opportunity and loan servicing arrangement by
their broker and agent Suddarth and EWL. 
(See TAC ¶17.)  Plaintiffs
allege the real property in this dispute are two vacant lots located at 3420
Dorothy Road, City of Calabasas, County of Los Angeles, California (“Calabasas
Property”) with Assessor’s Parcel Numbers 2080-015-033 and 2080-015-034 and a
legal description of: Lots 61 and 62 of Tract. No. 7094, as per map recorded in
book 92, pages 64 and 65 of maps, in the office of the county recorder of Los
Angeles County.  (FAC ¶3.)  
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending were the
agents for their principal, Hedger.  (TAC
¶17.)  Plaintiffs allege Hedger, by and
through his agents Greg, Edith and Hightechlending falsely misrepresented Hedger’s
status as a creditworthy borrower (with sufficient security in the form of real
property) to Plaintiffs, by and through its agents EWL and Suddarth.  (TAC ¶17.) 

Plaintiffs allege the investment opportunity presented by
Suddarth and EWL to Jon and Phyllis provided that Jon and Phyllis would provide
money for a secured loan to Hedger, and act as servicer of the loan secured by
the Calabasas Property. (TAC ¶19.)   Plaintiffs allege in reliance on the
representations made by EWL, Suddarth, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending, and
Hedger, Jon and Phyllis invested $168,000 for the lending arrangement.  (TAC ¶19.) 
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending, agents for Hedger,
falsely misrepresented Hedger’s income and value of the real property security
to Plaintiffs by and through their agents. 
(TAC ¶19.)  Plaintiffs allege they
reasonably relied on the false misrepresentations by EWL, Suddarth, Greg,
Edith, Hightechlending, and Hedger.  (TAC
¶19.)  
          Plaintiffs
allege on January 22, 2019, EWL, by and through its authorized agent Suzie
Peach, contacted Plaintiffs, its principals, seeking additional funding to
refinance Hedger’s secured loan, as requested by Hedger’s agents, Edith, Greg,
and Hightechlending.  (TAC ¶20.)  Plaintiffs allege Jon rejected the refinance
demand.  (TAC ¶20.)  
Plaintiffs allege on March 8, 2019, EWL, by and through its
authorized agents Suzie Peach and Debbi Suddarth (Senior Vice President of
EWL), again contacted Plaintiffs regarding Hedger and his agents’ refinance
demand.  (TAC ¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege EWL made false
representations regarding the appraised value of the secured real property,
that Hedger was seeking to develop the Calabasas Property, and that Hedger
possessed a construction timeline.  (TAC
¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege EWL and its
agents failed to advise Plaintiffs that Hedger was at risk for default due to
his missed payments on the initial loan and that the refinanced loan opportunity
presented a greater risk than the initial loan due to the increased amount of
the loan and the fact that Hedger had missed payments.  (TAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs allege EWL, by and through its agents, knew that Plaintiffs had
rejected the initial refinance demand and that additional false
misrepresentations, deception, and omissions were necessary to convince
Plaintiffs to agree to the refinance demand.  (TAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs allege a prudent fiduciary agent would have advised their
principal not to invest in this particular cash-out refinance loan due to the
increased risk of default and exposure to Plaintiffs as the opportunity was not
in the best interests of Plaintiffs.  (TAC
¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege they reasonably
relied on the false representations, deception, and omissions of EWL and its
agents, including but not limited to Suzie Peach and Debbi Suddarth.  (TAC ¶21.) 

Plaintiffs allege they proceeded to invest an additional
$274,000.00, as part of a refinance loan arrangement presented by its agent,
EWL.  (TAC ¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending,
agents for their principal Hedger, misrepresented the creditworthiness and
income of Hedger, including the value of the real property security and the
fact that Hedger missed payments for the existing secured loan.  (TAC ¶21.) 

          Plaintiffs
allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending, and Hedger misrepresented
the loan investment to Plaintiffs as an over-secured investment based on their
purported careful and diligent review and research of the borrower and secured
real property.  (TAC ¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith,
Hightechlending, and Hedger misrepresented that the loan to value ratio was
forty percent of the appraised value of $420,000 for the Calabasas Property and
that Hedger’s gross salary was $8,500 per month.  (TAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending owed Plaintiffs a
duty of care because they clearly knew or should have known that Plaintiffs and
Plaintiffs’ agents would rely on the inaccurate and misrepresented borrower
information Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending negligently prepared in making and
funding the loans.  (TAC ¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending
owed a legal duty of care to Plaintiffs. 
(TAC ¶22.)  
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending,
and Hedger failed to disclose and advise Plaintiffs that the property was
purchased for $75,000 in 2015, development of the Calabasas Property was not
permitted, that the development of the vacant lot had no been initiated, that
the permitting of the Calabasas Property could take two years or more, that the
lots did not have a sewer system and relied on a septic system thereby
materially impacting the value of the Calabasas Property, that Hedger had
missed payments on the original loan, and that Hedger was not properly and
thoroughly vetted, investigated, and evaluated for financial trustworthiness,
viability, credibility, and suitability. 
(TAC ¶23.)
Plaintiffs allege EWL, as agents for Plaintiffs, hired two
licensed California real estate appraisers, Gramlich and AAMC in 2017 and Varon
and Next Day in 2019, who failed to carefully and diligently view and
investigate the Calabasas Property and provide accurate reports indicating that
Calabasas Property would utilize an above ground septic system and was not
connected to a sewer system.  (TAC
¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege Gramlich, AAMC,
Varon, and Next Day owed a duty of care to EWL and Plaintiffs.  (TAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege the false and erroneous valuation of the Calabasas
Property by Gramlich, AAMC, Varon, and Next Day materially impacted the
appraised valuation of the Calabasas Property causing an erroneous valuation of
$420,000 by Gramlich and AAMC and then $450,000 by Varon and Next Day when in
fact the appraised value should have been $100,000 market value of the lots
that provided security for the money loans by Plaintiffs.  (TAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that Gramlich, AAMC, Varon,
and Next Day failed to view the property in person, were not familiar with the
specific location of the property, and utilized pictures from a different
property.  (TAC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege but for the failure of
Suddarth, EWL, Varon, Gramlich, Next Day, AAMC, Greg, Edith, and
Hightechlending to utilize due care and diligence regarding the valuation of
the Calabasas Property, an accurate and non-deceptive investment opportunity
would have been presented to Plaintiffs. 
(TAC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege but
for Gramlich’s and Varon’s failure to perform a careful and diligent
investigation and appraisal of the Calabasas Property, Plaintiffs would have
been aware of the actual market value of the Calabasas Property.  (TAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege they reasonably relied on the false information
provided by Suddarth, EWL, Varon, Gramlich, Next Day, and AAMC regarding the
valuation of the Calabasas Property. 
(TAC ¶24.)  
 
Summary of Demurrer
Hightechlending demurs to the 2nd
and 4th causes of action in the TAC on the basis the causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against Hightechlending, and
the 4th cause of action on the basis it is uncertain.  (Demurrer, pg. 3; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Negligence (2nd COA)
A cause of action for negligence
requires the following elements: (1) defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty;
(2) breached the duty; and (3) the breach caused (4) damages.  (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)  A complaint which lacks allegations of fact to
show that a legal duty of care was owed is fatally defective.  (See Jones v. Grewe (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 950.)  The existence of a legal duty of care is
properly challenged by demurrer and is a question of law for the court.  (Hegyes v. Unjian Enterprises, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1103,
1111.)
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, Next
Day, Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich failed to exercise due care in the investigation,
viewing, and opining regarding the market value of the Calabasas Property.  (TAC ¶36.)  Plaintiffs allege Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and
Gramlich created and distributed an inaccurate and erroneous appraisal report.  (TAC ¶36.) 
Plaintiffs allege it was reasonably foreseeable that the appraisal
report would be reviewed and reasonably relied on by persons and/or entities,
such as Plaintiffs, with interest in the Calabasas Property.  (TAC ¶36.) 

Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith,
and Hightechlending owed Plaintiffs and Plaintiff’s agents a legal duty of care
because they clearly knew or should have known that Plaintiffs would rely on
the inaccurate and misrepresented information that they presented regarding
their principal, Hedger.  (TAC ¶39.)  Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and
Hightechlending knew with substantial certainty that Plaintiffs would rely to
their detriment on the inaccurate information and documentation that Greg,
Edith, and Hightechlending prepared and disseminated.  (TAC ¶39.)
Plaintiffs allege EWL, Suddarth,
Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending failed to exercise due care and diligence in
the vetting and investigation of Hedger regarding his suitability as a borrower
and risk as a borrower for investment purposes.  (TAC ¶40.) 
Plaintiffs allege they reasonably relied on the information provided by EWL
and Suddarth regarding the lending and investment opportunities.  (TAC ¶40.) 

Plaintiffs allege they were
harmed by the negligence of EWL, Suddarth, Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and
Gramlich.  (TAC ¶41.)  Plaintiffs allege the negligence of EWL,
Suddarth, Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiffs’ harm.  (TAC ¶42.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege the
damages in the negligence cause of action were caused by Hightechlending’s
conduct.  (See TAC ¶¶41-42.)
Plaintiffs argue in their
opposition that the Court should grant leave to amend on the basis that they
attached a proposed fourth amended complaint that clarifies the negligence
allegations against Hightechlending. 
(Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; Exh. 1.)  It
is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is
any reasonable possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Bounds v. Superior
Court (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 468, 484 [stating court should grant leave to amend if in all
probability plaintiff will cure defect].) 
Plaintiffs’ proposed fourth amended complaint demonstrates a reasonable
probability that Plaintiffs can state a good cause of action.
Accordingly, Hightechlending’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Misrepresentation (4th COA)
“Negligent misrepresentation
requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and the tortfeasor’s
lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be true. It also
requires the tortfeasor’s intent to induce reliance, justifiable reliance by
the person to whom the false assertion of fact was made, and damages to that
person. An implied assertion of fact is ‘not enough’ to support liability.”  (SI 59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154,
internal citation omitted.)
The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege
fraud against a corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants
represented to Plaintiff that facts were true concerning the lending
transactions and/or appraisal value of the secured real property.  (TAC ¶51.) 
Plaintiffs allege the representations of Defendants concerning the
lending transactions and/or appraisal value of the secured real property were
false.  (TAC ¶52.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants knew or should
have known the representations were false. 
(TAC ¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
made the representations recklessly and without regard for the truth.  (TAC ¶54.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants intended that
Plaintiffs rely on the representations or should have known that Plaintiffs
would have relied on the representations. 
(TAC ¶55.)  Plaintiffs allege they
reasonably relied on the representations of Defendants.  (TAC ¶56.) 
Plaintiffs allege they were harmed by the misrepresentations of
Defendants.  (TAC ¶57.)  Plaintiffs allege their reliance on the
representations of Defendants was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’
harm.  (TAC ¶58.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege the
names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written.  (Tarmann, 2 Cal.App.4th at pg. 157.)  Plaintiffs fail to allege their cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation with the requisite particularity.  (See Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at pg. 645.)
Accordingly, Hightechlending’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4th cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Hightechlending’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ TAC is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd and 4th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  April _____, 2024
                                                                             





  