  Case Number:  24STCV12150    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV12150




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Soren Kieler




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Hadi Makarechian



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Hadi
Makarechian (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Soren Kieler (“Defendant”) for
defamation.  Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff,
Defendant’s son, Marc Kieler
(“Kieler”), and Victor Manuel Diaz Salazar (“Diaz”) invested in an oil drilling
business in Mexico.  When Kieler withdrew
from the business, Defendant sent an e-mail to Diaz in which he made numerous
statements about Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
contends this e-mail was defamatory.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 3-5.)  Defendant demurs to the first
and only cause of action for defamation in Plaintiff’s complaint.  Defendant also moves to strike the
allegations in support of that claim.  Plaintiff
opposes the motions.
ANALYSIS
“[A] demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a
demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 “Defamation
is an invasion of the interest in reputation. The tort involves the intentional
publication of a statement of fact that is false, unprivileged, and has a
natural tendency to injure or which causes special damage.”  (Smith v. Maldonado (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 637, 645.)  To state a cause
of action for defamation, Plaintiff must allege either the specific defamatory
statements or the substance thereof.  (Ellenberger
v. Espinosa (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 943, 951.)  
In support of the defamation claim, Plaintiff
alleges, Defendant wrote “[Plaintiff] had asked [Kieler] and Diaz to sign a
partnership agreement that was clearly not equal or protective for Diaz and his
family, that could have left Diaz’s family with very little, that had been
unanimously derided by several attorneys, including one who called it a terrible
agreement, and that was very unfair” (Complaint, ¶ 13, subd. (a),
internal quotations omitted);  “[Plaintiff] has a very different side when
it comes to business, he becomes a very different person.  He is a professional at controlling the
narrative and spin . . . the room to his direction”  (id., ¶ 13, subd. (b), internal
quotations omitted);  “if someone challenges [Plaintiff], even if
they are right, he cannot admit that he might be wrong.  He dismisses them, it happened to [Defendant’s]
best friend” (id., ¶ 13, subd. (c), internal quotations omitted);  “over
the years, [Plaintiff] has had so many lawsuits and so many of the people who
worked with and for him ended up suing him, and that years ago [Defendant]
googled [Plaintiff] and it was amazing and scary how many lawsuits he has been
involved in” (id., ¶ 13, subd. (d), internal quotations omitted);  “[Plaintiff]
effectively squeezed [Kieler] out of the . . . business because [Kieler]
exposed and challenged serious questions for the best interest of [Diaz]” (id.,
¶ 13, subd. (e), internal quotations omitted); “[Plaintiff] duped [Kieler] into believing that if he resigned,
Globexplore would purchase his shares at the valuation in the partnership
agreement, only to have that promise to buy his shares reversed the next day” (id.,
¶ 13, subd. (f), internal quotations omitted); “the way [Plaintiff] supposedly treated [Kieler] is a horrible way to
treat someone for no rightful reason, with a further insinuation that [Plaintiff]
supposedly treated [Kieler] horribly even though [Kieler] was only looking out
for the best interest of the company.  [Diaz]
included.  Similarly, . . . [Plaintiff]
was treating [Kieler] as if he was a criminal because [Kieler] asked important
questions and stood up for what he believed was best for [Diaz], [Kieler], and
everyone in the company” (id., ¶ 13, subd. (g), internal
quotations omitted); “[Plaintiff] may
regret the direction this has gone but will likely not ever admit that and may
rather drive the value of the company into the ground before ever admitting a
bad decision was made” (id., ¶ 13, subd. (h), internal quotations
omitted); and “[Plaintiff] had offered [Kieler]
a low ball 2 to 3 mil[lion] which I’m sure is not even 1/3 of [Diaz’s] asset
value”  (id., ¶ 13, subd.
(i), internal quotations omitted).  These statements are largely statements of
Defendant’s interpretation of Plaintiff’s motivations.  
“The crucial question in this case is whether
the statement at issue was a statement of fact or a statement of opinion. This
is a question of law to be decided by the court.  In making such a determination, the court must
place itself in the position of the hearer or reader, and determine the sense
or meaning of the statement according to its natural and popular construction.  That is to say, the publication is to be
measured not so much by its effect when subjected to the critical analysis of a
mind trained in law, but by the natural and probable effect upon the mind of
the average reader.”  (Baker v. Los
Angeles Herald Examiner (1986) 42 Cal.3d 254, 260, internal quotations and
citations omitted.)  Defendant’s alleged
statements appear to relate Defendant’s opinions concerning Plaintiff’s
rationale for various decisions Plaintiff made with respect to the joint
venture between Plaintiff, Diaz, and Kieler. 
The statements are not actionable statements of fact.  
The context in which the statements were made
further evidence they were not defamatory. 
(See Sanders v. Walsh (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 855, 862 [for
defamation to attach to statements, they must be understood to be defamatory, and
the context in which they were made must be considered].)  Plaintiff concedes Defendant sent the e-mail to
Diaz when Plaintiff, Diaz, and Kieler were engaged in a dispute regarding their
joint business venture.  “Part of the
totality of the circumstances used in evaluating the language in question is
whether the statements were made by participants in an adversarial setting.  Where potentially defamatory statements are
published in a . . . setting in which the audience may anticipate efforts by
the parties to persuade others to their positions by use of epithets, fiery
rhetoric or hyperbole, language which generally might be considered as
statements of fact may well assume the character of statements of opinion.”  (Dickinson v. Cosby (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 655, 686–687 (Dickinson), internal quotations and citations
omitted.)  
As Plaintiff further concedes, the purpose for
which Defendant sent the e-mail was to “induce Diaz to forge an alliance with [Kieler]
against [Plaintiff]—one in which [Kieler] and Diaz would have the majority and
could prejudice [Plaintiff] accordingly.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 14, internal quotations omitted.)   Moreover,
as related by Defendant, several of the statements were prefaced with express language
indicating Defendant was stating what he believed to be the case and his opinion.  (See Dickinson, supra, 171Cal.App.5th
at p. 686 [court is to consider whether allegedly defamatory statement “was cautiously
phrased in terms of the author’s impression”].) 
This is evidenced by the text of the actual e-mail Defendant sent, of
which Defendant requested the Court to take judicial notice, and to which Plaintiff
did not object. The Court does take judicial notice, as requested, pursuant to
Evidence Code sections 452, subdivision (h) and 453.  Given this context, it appears the e-mail was
sent to Diaz as representative of Defendant’s opinion, not as statements of fact.  
Defendant also
argues the allegedly defamatory statements are subject to the common-interest
privilege.  The common-interest privilege is a qualified privilege and may be
overcome by a showing of malice.  (Kachlon
v. Markowitz (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 316, 341.)  As such, and given the limited role of
a demurrer, which test the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the Court cannot appropriately
determine whether the common-interest privilege applies on demurrer.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Insurance Company. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  Likewise, the Court cannot consider
Defendant’s argument Plaintiff is a public figure on demurrer as that does not clearly
appear on the face of the complaint.
As the Court sustains the demurrer, the Court
places the motion to strike off calendar as moot.  In the alternative, the Court denies the
motion to strike.  Defendant moves to
strike various allegations on the basis that the allegations do not support a
claim for defamation.  That is not a
proper basis for a motion to strike.  (See
Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 529  objections the complaint failed to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action is not grounds for a motion to
strike but rather for a general demurer].)  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The Court, therefore,
sustains the demurrer but gives Plaintiff the opportunity to amend the
complaint to more specifically state a cause of action for defamation.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint
within 10 days of notice of this order. 
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 