  Case Number:  21SMCV01665    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
Booth, et al., v. Ingraham, et al. 



Case No.:


21SMCV01665


Complaint Filed:


10-14-21         




Hearing Date:


12-5-24 


Discovery C/O:


12-30-24




Calendar No.:


13


Discovery Motion C/O:


1-13-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


1-27-25



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant David G. Ertz
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Ron Booth,
Michele Booth, Sofia Booth, and Dominique Booth 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant
David G. Ertz Motion for Summary Judgment as to the 2nd and 3rd
causes of action within Plaintiffs Ron Booth, Michele Booth, Sofia Booth, and
Dominique Booth FAC is DENIED. Defendant fails to meet its burden to show
Plaintiffs cannot establish an element of their claims or that Defendant shown
undisputed facts that support each element of an affirmative defense. Even if
Defendants had met their burden, Plaintiffs show there are disputed material
facts as to the HOA not meeting the minimum insurance requirements of Civ. Code
§ 5805, and if so, Defendant could be jointly and severally liable for the
causes of action, if not directly liable. 
 
Defendant David G. Ertz’s Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s unnumbered objections to
paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of the Declaration Jeff Hughes are OVERRULED. 
 
 
REASONING
            Where a defendant seeks summary
judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to that cause of action.” (Code of Civil Procedure
§437c(o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim
“cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential
element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts
to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove
the existence of a triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary
adjudication in favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)
 
            “The burden on a defendant moving
for summary judgment based upon the assertion of an affirmative defense is
different than the burden to show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's
cause of action cannot be established. Instead of merely submitting evidence to
negate a single element of the plaintiff's cause of action, or offering
evidence such as vague or insufficient discovery responses that the plaintiff
does not have evidence to create an issue of fact as to one or more elements of
his or her case the defendant has the initial burden to show that undisputed
facts support each element of the affirmative defense. If the defendant does
not meet this burden, the motion must be denied.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v.
SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 467–468.)
 
            “In general, the opposing party may
not rely on the opposing party's own pleadings (even if verified) to oppose the
motion. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p); Roman v BRE Props., Inc.
(2015) 237 CA4th 1040, 1054, 188 [plaintiff must show “specific facts” to
defeat defendant's summary judgment motion and may not rely on allegations of
complaint].). A plaintiff may rely on the plaintiff's pleadings to resist a
summary judgment motion if the defendant's motion is based on the legal
insufficiency of the plaintiff's claims as alleged. Hand v Farmers Ins.
Exch. (1994) 23 CA4th 1847, 1853, 29 CR2d 258.” (Cal. Judges Benchbook Civ.
Proc. Before Trial § 13.24 (2023).)
 
            “[P]ointing out the absence of
evidence to support a plaintiff's claim is insufficient to meet the moving
defendant's initial burden of production. The defendant must also produce
evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891; see Zoran
Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 808 [“It was not enough simply to
assert that [Plaintiff] had no evidence supporting an element of each cause of
action; a moving defendant “must indeed present ‘evidence,’ ” such as “
‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken”].)
 
            Finally
“The rule that a trial court must liberally construe the evidence submitted in
opposition to a summary judgment motion applies in ruling on both the
admissibility of expert testimony and its sufficiency to create a triable issue
of fact. [Citations.] In light of the rule of liberal construction, a reasoned
explanation required in an expert declaration filed in opposition to a summary
judgment motion need not be as detailed or extensive as that required in expert
testimony presented in support of a summary judgment motion or at trial.” ((Garrett
v. Howmedica Osteonics Corp. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 173, 189. Summary
judgment reversed.  Trial court abused
its discretion by excluding expert testimony offered in opposition to motion
for summary judgment.)
 
I.               
Summary Adjudication of the 2nd cause
of action for Negligence – Count 2 and 3rd cause of action for
Nuisance 
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are well established. They are ‘(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
The elements of a claim for private
nuisance are: “First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and
enjoyment of its property. Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in
the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., it caused
the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. Third, the interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, it must also be unreasonable,
i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute
unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Today's
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176. reh'g denied (Oct. 25, 2022), review
denied (Jan. 18, 2023).)
 
A nuisance includes: “Anything
which is injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the illegal sale
of controlled substances, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use,
in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal,
or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway, is a nuisance.” (Civ.
Code, § 3479.)
 
Defendant David G. Ertz (“Ertz”)
argues that Plaintiffs Ron Booth, Michele Booth, Sofia Booth, and Dominique
Booth (collectively “Plaintiffs”) cannot establish the negligence cause of
action, nor the nuisance cause of action because Ertz became the owner of Unit
#4 only seven months prior to Plaintiffs vacating Unit #3, and Ertz never
received communication from Plaintiffs regarding any issues within Ertz’s unit
which were affecting Plaintiff’s unit. (SSUF, ¶¶ 9–15; Dingilian Decl., ¶¶ 6–11,
13–16; Ex. D–I, K–N.)  Ertz further
argues and shows that the Plaintiffs only made complaints to the prior owner of
Unit #4, Defendants Lee Ingraham (“Ingraham”), Defendant Alexandria Rausch’s
husband Perrin Rausch (“Perrin”), and another non-party individual named Leaona
Rollins. (SSUF, ¶ 16; Dingilian Decl., ¶ 16; Ex. N.)  However, Ertz fails to point to authority or
otherwise show how this evidence establishes Plaintiffs cannot establish one or
more of the elements of their claim for negligence or nuisance as alleged in
the complaint.  Regardless, Plaintiffs show
there was a conflicting length in the overlapping tenancy between Plaintiffs
and Ertz. (Form Interrogatories (Ex. K [FROG #2.4] and the FAC have a Plaintiff
move out date of 8-30-20, an overlap in tenancy between Ertz and Plaintiffs of nine
months instead of seven. (SSUF, ¶¶ 13, 14; Dingilian Decl., ¶¶ 7, 13–15; Ex. E,
K–M.)
 
Ertz further argues Plaintiffs cannot
establish their negligence cause of action because the Unit #4 mold remediation
occurred before Ertz became an owner, and there is no evidence of any alleged
habitability issues within unit #3 from tenancy overlap period of 11-27-19 to
6-30-20. (SSUF, ¶¶ 18–24; Dingilian Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8, 12–16; Ex. D, F, J–N.)
Ertz’s proffered evidence, however, does not show that Plaintiff’s moved away
from Unit #3 on 6-30-24. As Plaintiffs correctly argue, the only shows an
8-30-24 move out date. 
 
Ertz’s argues the evidence of the 6-26-20
and 7-10-20 Envirocheck on-site mold inspection show that as of 7-10-24 there
was no evidence of any water leaks.  However,
there is no evidence of an inspection occurring on or around the 8-30-20 move
out date, and thus this evidence is does not show as a matter of law, that no
leaks occurred during the time of ownership overlap between the parties.
Additionally, Plaintiffs provide admissible expert testimony showing a triable
issue of fact regarding the source of the water intrusion showing that after multiple
“visual inspection[s] of the property” and reviewing the “relevant
documentation”:
 
It is my opinion to a reasonable degree
of certainty that some of the water intrusions into the Property originated
from within Unit 4 – that has an adjoining common wall with penetrations
leading into Unit 3. In order to conclusively determine the exact source(s) of
the various water intrusions into the Property, including from Unit 4, and to
better evaluate the scope and timeframe of such intrusions, I will require
additional inspection and testing of the property, including but not limited
to, entrance and inspection of each of the adjoining units to the Property,
testing of the appliances contained therein, and destructive testing and
inspection of the space in between the walls of the Property and the adjoining
units.  
 
(Rosenweig Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C (Hughes
Decl., ¶¶ 8–13).)
 
            Thus, even
if Defendant do meet their burden to show Plaintiffs could not meet an element
of their negligence or nuisance claims, Plaintiffs provide evidence of showing disputed
material facts exist and that additional destructive testing is needed to
properly assess the time and and scope of the alleged habitability conditions.
 
Simillarily, Plaintiffs show that triable
issues of fact remain which Defendants have not raised in their motion. Namely,
Plaintiffs show that Ertz, as an owner of a unit within the HOA, could be jointly
and severally liable for tort claims related to common areas within the HOA
property because the HOA does not have the minimum insurance amount to cover the
tort claims pursuant to Civ. Code, § 5805. (Plaintiffs Additional Disputed
Facts (“PADF”), ¶¶ 1–5.)
 
“California cases hold that a
homeowners association is liable to a member who suffers injury or damages as a
result of alleged negligence of the association in failing to maintain a common
area adequately.” (Ritter & Ritter, Inc. Pension & Profit Plan v.
The Churchill Condominium Assn. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 103, 120.) “[T]enants
in common who delegate control and management of the property remain jointly
and severally liable for tortious acts or omissions causing injury to third
persons.” (Ruoff v. Harbor Creek Community Assn. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1624, 1629 [holding that HOA members can still be held jointly and severally
liable if the HOA does not have the proper insurance coverage pursuant to CCP
§ 5805, which at the time of this ruling was § 1365.7].)
 
Senate Bill 2072, enacted in 1994,
is reflected in Civ. Code § 5805, which provides limited immunity from joint
and several liability for individual owners in common interest developments,
including those in an HOA, under certain conditions. (See Civ. Code, § 5805.) Civil
Code § 5805 states that any cause of action in tort against an owner of a
separate interest, arising solely by reason of an ownership interest as a
tenant-in-common in the common area, must be brought only against the
association and not against the individual owners, provided that the
association maintains a certain level of prescribed insurance coverage. (See ibid.)
 
Civ. Code § 5805(b) specifically
provides the following:
 
(b) Any cause of action in tort against
any owner of a separate interest arising solely by reason of an ownership
interest as a tenant-in-common in the common area of a common interest
development shall be brought only against the association and not against the
individual owners of the separate interests, if both of the insurance
requirements in paragraphs (1) and (2) are met:
(1) The association maintained and has
in effect for this cause of action, one or more policies of insurance that
include coverage for general liability of the association.
(2) The coverage described in paragraph
(1) is in the following minimum amounts:
(A) At least two million dollars
($2,000,000) if the common interest development consists of 100 or fewer
separate interests.
(B) At least three million dollars
($3,000,000) if the common interest development consists of more than 100
separate interests.
 
(Civ. Code, § 5805, subd. (b).)
 
“[T]he issue of sufficiency of the
insurance policy would be a question of fact, inappropriate for determination
by summary judgment. (Ruoff, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at p. 1631.) The
burden is on the moving party to establish immunity under Civil Code § 5805. (Schmidt
v. Bank of America (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1489, 1512.) 
 
Not only does Ertz not point to any
evidence to show that HOA had the requisite insurance amount to immunize Ertz
from liability pursuant to Civ Code § 5805, Plaintiffs show that the HOA only
had $1,000,000 in insurance which does not meet the minimum coverage
requirements of section 5805. (PADF, ¶ 3; Rosenweig Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. A, Defendant
HOA’s responses to FROG No 4.1.) Thus, Plaintiffs show that Ertz is likely
jointly and severally liable to Plaintiffs tort claims. Even if Ertz provides
an argument that the HOA insurance coverage of $1 million was sufficient, which
he does not, this would still be a question of fact and not appropriate for “determination
by summary judgment.” ((Ruoff, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at p. 1631.)
 
Thus, Plaintiffs meets their burden
to show a triable issue of fact as to both the negligence and nuisance causes
of action. Ertz’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 