 Case Number:  23AHCV02413    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GEORGE L. YOUNG, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GLORIA
   GAO, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02413
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT GLORIA GAO'S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 12,
  2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 18, 2023, plaintiff George
L. Young (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Gloria Gao
(“Defendant”), Eric Wu aka Yue H. Wu (“Wu”), and Wei F. Li (“Li”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) asserting causes of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2)
accounting, (3) fraud, (4) conversion, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, and (6)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant,
his former mother-in law, was allowed to live at the property located at 1128
W. Duarte Road, #E in Arcadia, California (the “Property”) Property for free
and agreed to collect and hold rent from a second bedroom on Plaintiff’s behalf.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to pay him $96,000 in rent that was
allegedly collected on his behalf from between 2015 to October 2023 and owes
him rent in excess of $300,000 because she allegedly defrauded Plaintiff into
letting her live at the property without paying rent during this time. Plaintiff
also alleges that Wu, his former brother-in-law, along with Wu’s wife, Li, were
involved in a scheme with Defendant from 2009 to 2021 to convert rent money
owed to him in the excess of $300,000. Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants
owed him a fiduciary duty as his in-laws and breached it by scheming to defraud
him and withhold rent. 
On January 11, 2024, Defendants filed a
notice of related case identifying an action captioned George L. Young v. Grace
Young pending in the Pasadena Courthouse with Case No. GD046639 (the
“Dissolution Action”). The notice of related case states that the Property is
an asset in the Dissolution Action and the family law court has jurisdiction
over any and all issues related to the Property including the allocation of any
income derived from the property. 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition stating that the cases are not related because they do not involve
the same parties. 
On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that the family law
court retains exclusive concurrent jurisdiction over the Property because
Plaintiff claims it is community property while his wife, Defendant’s daughter,
claims it is separate property. (Motion, p. 2.) Defendant also argues that the
Complaint fails to state sufficient facts because: (1) no written contract was
attached to the complaint and (2) Plaintiff does not have any ownership
interest in the Property. 
II.         
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant requests judicial notice of
records in the Dissolution Action filed in 2010 as well as a grant deed and a
quitclaim deed, both recorded on February 2, 2015. Defendant’s request for
judicial notice is GRANTED. 
III.       
LEGAL
STANDARD
A defendant may move for judgment on
the pleadings on the grounds that the court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i).) A defendant may also move for judgment on the pleadings on the
grounds that the complaint does not state facts sufficient o constitute a cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) The motion made be
made as to the entire complaint or as to any of the causes of action stated
therein. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(2)(A).) Like a demurrer, the
grounds for a motion for judgment on the pleadings “shall appear on the face of
the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (d).) 
IV.        
DISCUSSION
Defendant argues that the case should
be dismissed because the substance of the claims in the Complaint arises
entirely out of the purported rent owed to Plaintiff for the Property, which is
subject to the jurisdiction of the family law court.  The family law court has the power and
obligation to determine the characterization of specific assets and divide them
as community. (Askew v. Askew (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 942, 961-962.)
“After a family law court acquires jurisdiction to divide community property in
a dissolution action, no other department of a superior court may make an order
adversely affecting that division.” (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff’s action requires
a determination of a foundational issue that is currently pending in the family
law court, which is the characterization of the Property as community or
separate property (and, accordingly, Plaintiff’s interest in the Property and
his standing to bring this action). It is undisputed that the Dissolution
Action was filed before this instant action and that the family law court was
the first to obtain jurisdiction. Therefore, to avoid inconsistent or
conflicting rulings, the Court stays this action in its entirety pending
resolution of the Dissolution Action. (See Glade v. Glade (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1441, 1456.) 
V.          
CONCLUSION
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is DENIED. On its own motion, the Court stays the action and
schedules a status conference for September 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. Parties are ordered to submit a joint statement
regarding the status of this case and the Dissolution Action no later than 5
days before the hearing. 
Dated
this 12th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 