 Case Number:  24STCV05033    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARTIN
  RODRIGUEZ 
                           
         vs.
 
PHOENIX
  VILLEGAS, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV05033 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  August 6, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to consolidate is DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
            On
2/28/2024, Martin Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed suit against Phoenix Villegas and
Wendy Wedding (collectively, Defendants), alleging negligence and property
damage. 
 
            On
4/24/2024, Plaintiff moved to consolidate this case with Case. 23STCV18385.
 
Legal Standard
 
“When actions involving a common
question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint
hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may
order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) “A consolidation of actions
does not affect the rights of the parties. The purpose of consolidation is
merely to promote trial convenience and economy by avoiding duplication of
procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common to both actions.”¿ (Wouldridge v. Burns (1968) 265 Cal.App.2d 82, 86.) 
 
Discussion

 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.350
sets forth the procedural requirements for bringing a motion to consolidate.
The notice of motion must: 
 
A.   
List
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record; 
B.   
Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and 
C.   
Be
filed in each case sought to be consolidated.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350(a)(1).) 
 
Though the motion must be filed in each
case sought to be consolidated, “memorandums, declarations, and other
supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.350(a)(2).) All motion documents must be served together with
the notice on all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated. (Id.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff failed to file a notice of motion to consolidate in Case No.
23STCV18385. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective and must
be denied. 
 
            Moreover,
as noted by Defendant’s opposition, there are a number of other procedural
defects with Plaintiff’s motion. For example, the proof of service is unclear
as to how the non-represented parties in the Auto Accident Case were served.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to consolidate is denied, without
prejudice. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 