  Case Number:  23CHCV01702    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  F51  JANUARY 31, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01702    Demurrer Filed: 10/2/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Vahagn Lusparyan and VADA  Insurance Services, Inc. (“Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Golden Pro Insurance Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  demur against Plaintiff’s entire complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Defendants to file their answer to  Plaintiff’s complaint within 20 days.   BACKGROUND    This is a  fraud action in which Plaintiff alleges that defendant Vahagn Lusparyan  misappropriated Plaintiff’s exclusive proprietary information and trade secrets  to defame Plaintiff and steal its customers, in violation of his written agreement  not to do so. (Compl. ¶¶ 6–7, 9, 15.) On 6/12/23, Plaintiff filed its  complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Injunctive  Relief; (2) Theft of Trade Secrets; and (3) Fraud (against Lusparyan).   On 10/2/23,  Defendants filed the instant demurrer. On 1/17/24, Plaintiff filed its  opposition. No reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   Defendants  demur to Plaintiff’s entire complaint on the bases that “each of the claims  asserted against Lusparyan and VADA is barred either by the exclusive remedy  provided by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (‘CUTSA’).” (Dem. 3:9–10.)         A.    Meet  and Confer   Defendants’ counsel declares that on 8/2/23 and 9/21/23, he  and Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred regarding the issues raised in the  instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to an informal resolution.  (Decl. of Mario Rivera ¶¶ 2–4.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Theft  of Trade Secrets   Plaintiff’s  second cause of action alleges Theft of Trade Secrets against both Defendants. “Under  the [CUSTA], a prima facie claim for misappropriation of trade secrets requires  the plaintiff to demonstrate: (1) the plaintiff owned a trade secret, (2) the  defendant acquired, disclosed, or used the plaintiff’s trade secret through  improper means, and (3) the defendant’s actions damaged the plaintiff.” (Sargent  Fletcher, Inc. v. Able Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665; Civ. Code §  3426.1.) “‘Trade secret’ means information, including a formula, pattern,  compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) Derives  independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known  to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its  disclosure or use; and (2) Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under  the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Civ. Code § 3426.1, subd. (d).)  “‘Improper means’ includes theft, bribery, misrepresentation, breach or inducement  of a breach of a duty to maintain secrecy, or espionage through electronic or  other means.” (Id. at subd. (a).)   Here, Plaintiff  alleges that it provided Lusparyan “with proprietary information and trade  secrets that exclusively belonged to” Plaintiff; that Defendants “misappropriated  Plaintiff's proprietary information and trade secrets … and are using such  proprietary information and trade secrets to defame Plaintiff and steal  business from Plaintiff; and that Defendants’ actions have harmed Plaintiff by  at least $29,974. (Compl. ¶¶ 14, 16–17.)   Defendants  argue that “Plaintiff’s claims against Lusparyan and VADA for injunctive  relief, theft of trade secrets and fraud are preempted by the CUTSA and fail as  a matter of law.” (Dem. 7:8–10.) Defendants appear to concede that Plaintiff’s  “allegations fall squarely within the CUTSA’s broad definitions of ‘misappropriation.’”  (Id. at 6:27–28.) As Plaintiff observes in opposition, “nowhere do  Defendants identify anything plead in Plaintiff’s second cause of action which  is inconsistent with bringing a claim under the California Uniform Trade  Secrets Act. Rather Defendants argue that the Plaintiff has in fact plead a  theft of trade secrets.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:7–9.) The Court agrees, and notes that the  CUTSA does not preempt Plaintiff’s trade secrets cause of action, but in fact  provides for the statutory relief Plaintiff seeks. Based on the foregoing, the  Court finds that Plaintiff’s factual allegations, as pled, sufficiently  constitute a cause of action for Theft of Trade Secrets against Defendants. Accordingly,  the demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is overruled.          C.    Fraud   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges Fraud against Lusparyan. “One who willfully  deceives another with intent to induce him to alter his position to his injury  or risk, is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.” (Civ. Code §  1709.) The elements that must be pleaded in a cause of action for fraud are:  (1) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment or nondisclosure);  (2) knowledge of its falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to  induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Philipson  & Simon v. Gulsvig (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 363.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that Lusparyan “promised that he would not use or disseminate  said proprietary information and trade secrets to anyone outside GOLDEN PRO  INSURANCE SERVICES, INC., including himself”; but “was lying and never intended  to not use or disseminate said proprietary information and trade secrets”; and  instead “intended to steal everything he could from GOLDEN PRO INSURANCE  SERVICES, INC., and use it to form and benefit VADA INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.,  and then solicit Plaintiff’s customers.” (Compl. ¶¶ 21–22.) Plaintiff further  alleges that it “reasonably relied to its detriment on Defendant, VAHAGN  LUSPARYAN’S, false promise that he would not use or disseminate said  proprietary information and trade secrets to anyone outside GOLDEN PRO  INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.,” and has consequently been harmed by at least  $29,974.00. (Id. at ¶¶ 23–25.)   Defendants  argue that the factual allegations supporting Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action  “are based on the same basic nucleus of alleged facts” as Plaintiff’s trade  secrets cause of action, and therefore reiterate their argument that  Plaintiff’s claims are preempted by the CUTSA. (Dem. 6:24–25.) However, as  Plaintiff observes, “the Fraud is based upon VAHAGN LUSPARYAN making a promise  that he had no intention of performing in order to obtain employment.” (Pl.’s  Opp. 5:2–3.) The Court agrees, and finds that Plaintiff’s factual allegations,  as pled, sufficiently constitute a cause of action for Fraud against Lusparyan.  Moreover, as the Court notes above, Plaintiff’s trade secrets claims are not  preempted by the CUTSA, but instead derive therefrom. Accordingly, the demurrer  to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is overruled.   D.    Injunctive  Relief   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action seeks Injunctive Relief against Defendants. “The elements  of a cause of action for injunctive relief are (1) a tort or other wrongful act  constituting a cause of action; and (2) irreparable injury, i.e., a factual  showing that the wrongful act constitutes an actual or threatened injury to  property or personal rights which cannot be compensated by an ordinary damage  award.” (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital (1989) 208  Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) “Actual or threatened misappropriation [of trade secrets]  may be enjoined. Upon application to the court, an injunction shall be  terminated when the trade secret has ceased to exist, but the injunction may be  continued for an additional period of time in order to eliminate commercial  advantage that otherwise would be derived from the misappropriation.” (Civ.  Code § 3426.2.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that Lusparyan “executed the agreement attached hereto as  Exhibit A and incorporated by reference, wherein he agreed that an injunction  could be issued for using proprietary information and trade secrets that  exclusively belonged to GOLDEN PRO INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.” (Compl. ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff therefore alleges that it “is entitled to injunctive relief barring  Defendants … from doing any business with any of Plaintiff’s clients or using  any of Plaintiff’s proprietary information and trade secrets.” (Id. at ¶  12.)   Defendants  argue that “the claim for an injunction should … be dismissed-not only because  it does not state a cause of action in the first place but also because the  claims on which Plaintiffs would have to prevail to obtain an injunction fail  as a matter of law.” (Dem. 7:17–20.) To the extent that Defendants contend that  Plaintiff’s claim for injunctive relief fails because Plaintiff has failed to  allege facts sufficient to constitute the causes of action on which the claim  is based, the Court disagrees, as outlined above. Accordingly, the demurrer to  Plaintiff’s first cause of action is overruled.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled. Defendants to file their answer to  Plaintiff’s complaint within 20 days.