

 

Motion to Seal

Plaintiff Jane Doe seeks to seal her
identity and use a pseudonym.
Defendants Scientology International
and Bridge Publications, Inc. make a number of procedural arguments, which are
rejected.
Unless confidentiality is required
by law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court 2.550(c); see also Cal.
Const., art. I, § 3, subd. (b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to
information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also
NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)
The Court finds that a sealing order
is warranted.  There is an overriding
interest to the extent this action relates to sensitive facts pertaining to
child sexual abuse and there is a potential for physical retaliation in
relation to another lawsuit (see Does I
thru XXIII v. Advanced Textile Corp. (2000) 214 F.3d 1058, 1068); if there
is not a sealing order, Plaintiff could be subject to physical threats and
humiliation; the sealing of Plaintiff’s name is narrowly tailored; and there
are no less restrictive means to protect Plaintiff under the circumstances.
Thus, the Motion is granted. 
 

Motion for Contempt

            Plaintiff seeks an OSC re:
contempt.  Plaintiff states that “[o]n
February 14 and March 22, 2024, this Court issued two orders relating to
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration [ ], both of which expressly direct that
all briefing and evidence in connection with Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration was closed and prohibiting the parties from filing any additional
evidence, briefing, or papers in connection with the motion. Now, in defiance
of these orders, defendant Church of Scientology International [ ] and its
attorney of record have acted in contempt of the Court’s clear direction and
filed a Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery [ ] that contains impermissible
briefing and evidence in support of their motion to compel arbitration.”
            Even
were Defendant’s actions improper, this is not a matter for which the Court
would typically hold a litigant in contempt or award fees.  If the filing is not warranted, it will
simply be stricken.  
            Defendant’s
filing is not unwarranted.  The Court’s
prior orders did not preclude any separate motions.
            The
Motion for Contempt is denied. 
Moving party to give notice.
If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
 
 
 