 Case Number:  23SMCV04180    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Gjertson v. Avalonbay
Communities, Inc. 



Case No.:


23SMCV04180


Complaint Filed:


9-6-24 




Hearing Date:


1-23-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


15


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO QUASH PLAINTIFF
CHRISTOPHER GJERTSON’S DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS
TO BURBANK HOUSING AUTHORITY
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Avalonbay Communities,
Inc. 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Christopher
Gjertson 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Avalonbay Communities, Inc.’s Motion to Quah
Plaintiff Christopher Gjertson’s Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business
Records to Burbank Housing Authority is DENIED. Defendant Avalonbay
Communities, Inc.’s request for sanctions isDENIED. 
 
            Defendant Avalonbay Communities, Inc. (“Avalonbay”) moves
to quash Plaintiff Christopher Gjertson’s (“Gjertson”) Deposition subpoenas category
1 including any all documents regarding complaints, violations, inspections and
citations regarding the property at issue, and category 2 including any and all
correspondence and communications between the Burbank Housing Authority and the
owner of the property at issue. Avalonbay argues the Deposition subpoenas are
irrelevant and oppressive. 
 
Gjertson’s
deposition subpoena categories 1 and 2 are not irrelevant or oppressive.  The requested material is relevant to Gjertson’s
claim that Avalonbay negligently maintained, controlled, repaired and/or
inspected the subject premises. The material requested is relevant for Giertson
to determine whether Avalonbay had prior knowledge of maintenance or repair
issues, thus directly related to an element of the negligence claim. 
 
            Avalonbay argues that Gjertson cannot engage in a fishing
expedition, but this defense alone is not enough to reach oppressiveness or
irrelevance when the records sought appear to be reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. Furthermore, Gjertson points out that
the Burbank Housing Authority “did not object to the subpoena or the scope/time
frame and has the documents ready for production,” thus providing evidence that
the requests are not oppressive, harassing or unduly burdensome.  
 
            The Court agrees with Gjertson and finds that the
requests are not irrelevant or oppressive. Thus, Avalonbay’s Motion to Quash is
DENIED. 
 
            “Except as specified in subdivision (b), in making an
order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (CCP §1987.2.)
 

            Avalonbay’s request for sanctions is  DENIED. The motion and opposition were not made or
opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification, nor were one or more
of the requirements of the subpoena oppressive.   