 Case Number:  23STCV15571    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  73 9/04/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JANET DIXON v. THE PEOPLE CONCERN (23STCV15571) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Janet Dixon (Pro Per) 
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party:  Norman Ayotte (Jones & Ayotte) 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDMENT TO
THE COMPLAINT AND SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT (filed 07/31/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File an Amendment to the Complaint and Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 5, 2023,
Plaintiff Janet Dixon filed the instant action against Defendant The People
Concern. 
 
On June 12,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file First Amended
Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges the following. Plaintiff is a resident of Defendant The People Concern,
which is a temporary housing shelter. Plaintiff informed Defendant’s staff that
she does not eat meat, such as beef, chicken or turkey. On April 27, 2023, a
member of Defendant’s staff served Plaintiff dinner that contained chicken. The
staff told Plaintiff the chicken was vegan. However, Plaintiff alleges the
chicken was not vegan and that after eating the food, she became very ill.
Plaintiff alleges she was ill 3 days following the incident and it took her a
day and a half to recover. She alleges that she reported the issue to
Defendant’s staff, but they still continue to serve her meat. 
 
On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to File an Amendment to the Complaint and
Second Amended Complaint, arguing:
·       Plaintiff
seeks leave to file an amendment to the complaint and a Second Amended
Complaint to recover damages for additional acts of (gross) negligent,
unlawful, and or inadequate care performed onto the Plaintiff that materially
differ from the allegations already presented in the First Amended Complaint
filed on June 5th, 2024.
·       The
allegations Plaintiff proposes in the amendment to complaint and Second Amended
Complaint commenced on or about July 20th, 2023, after the Plaintiff submitted
her complaint.
·       The proposed
amendment provides an addition of 15 causes of action that are materially
different.
 
Defendant
filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff’s
motion is procedurally defective
·       It appears that the Plaintiff is asking for leave to file a
Second Amended Complaint, although the motion is also portrayed as seeking to
amend the current complaint. The leave requested is mutually exclusive – the
Plaintiff cannot have both.
·       Assuming that the Plaintiff is seeking leave to file an
entirely new pleading (which it appears she is), then she does not fulfill the
requirements of California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324.
o   Plaintiff does not state when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered. (CRC Rules 3.1324(b)(3).) Plaintiff’s
supporting declaration also fails to offer any explanation as to why the
amendment was not made earlier. (California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(b)(4). The
motion fails to state meaningfully why the amendments are necessary and proper.
(CRC Rules 3.1324(2))
 
Plaintiff
filed a reply stating that Defendant’s opposition is untimely and should be disregarded.
Plaintiff also maintains that her motion to file an amendment and SAC is
warranted.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Timeliness of Opposition
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff argues in her reply that
Defendant’s opposition was untimely and should be disregarded. 
 
Opposition papers are required to be filed and served at
least nine court days prior to the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). However, a
court may properly consider papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP
section 1005(b) unless “substantial rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1300(d); Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)
 
Here, Defendant filed its opposition on August 20, 2024. The
Court finds Defendant’s opposition is timely as it was filed at least nine
court days prior to the hearing date of September 4, 2024. Thus, the Court
considers Defendant’s opposition. 
 
B.    
Legal Standard 
 
The trial court has discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in
the furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “There is a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.” (Berman
v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.) “An application to amend a
pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.” (Ibid.)   
 
Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of
Court, a separate declaration must accompany a motion for leave to amend and
must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) A party seeking leave
to amend must attach a copy of the proposed pleading to the motion for leave to
amend. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)  
 
C.    
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for an order granting Plaintiff
leave to file an amendment to the Complaint and Second Amended Complaint. Plaintiff
provides a declaration in support of the instant motion, an Appendix of
Proposed Changes to the First Amended Complaint and separately filed the
proposed Second Amended Complaint.
 
However, the Court does not find that Plaintiff
has complied with the requirements of Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b). 
 
Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of
Court, Plaintiff’s declaration must specify (1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd.
(b).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s declaration states “[t]he allegations
added in the Second Amended Complaint transpired after the original Complaint
was filed on July 5th, 2023, with the first allegation beginning on or about
July 20th, 2023 and the most recent dating to February 8th, 2024. Plaintiff
also needed to file her First Amended Complaint before proceeding to file the
amendment to the complaint, as the allegations are materially different.
Plaintiff was also collecting evidence to form her case.” (Dixon
Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
The
Court does not find Plaintiff’s declaration specifies when each of the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered or why the amendment was
not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,
subd. (b).) Plaintiff states the alleged acts all occurred before February 8,
2024, which predates the filing of her First Amended Complaint. Thus, Plaintiff
does not sufficiently explain in her declaration why she did not make the
amendments earlier. 
 
Since Plaintiff has not complied with the
requirements of Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subd. (b), Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File an Amendment to the Complaint and Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.