 Case Number:  24STCV10449    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  73 9/04/2024 
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
INTERIOR EXPERTS GENERAL BULDERS, INC. v. THE
WCCD, INC., et al. (24STCV10449) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Nick Campbell (Builders Law Group, Inc.) 
Counsel for Defendants/moving
party:  Kyle Kring (Kring & Chung, LLP) 
 
MOTION TO TRANSFER action (second and sixth causes of
action) to proper venue (filed 8/07/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion. The Court grants Defendants’
request to transfer the first, second, fifth and sixth causes of action to the Superior
Court of California, County of San Diego.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for attorneys fees
against Plaintiff and their attorney of record in the reduced amount of $7,105.00. Said attorneys fees are
to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 25,
2024, Plaintiff Interior Experts General Builders, Inc., filed the instant
action against Defendants The WCCD, Inc.; Centermark Properties, Inc.; The
Chainery, Inc.; Westfield Topanga Owner, LLC; Lovisa America, LLC; UTC Venture,
LLC; and Melrose, Crown, LLC. 
 
The Complaint
asserts the following causes of action:
1.      Breach
of Contract (Count I)
2.      Foreclosure
of Mechanics’ Lien (Count I)
3.      Breach
of Contract (Count II)
4.      Foreclosure
of Mechanics’ Lien (Count II)
5.      Breach
of Contract (Count III)
6.      Foreclosure
of Mechanics’ Lien (Count III)
7.      Breach
of Contract (Count IV)
8.      Foreclosure
of Mechanics’ Lien (Count IV)
9.      Breach
of Contract (Count V)
10.  Recovery
of Mechanics’ Lien Release Bonds(s)
11.  Open
Book Account
12.  Account
Stated
13.  Quantum
Meruit
 
According to
the Complaint, Plaintiff filed claims relating to breach of contract involving
four separate properties it worked on under Defendant The WCCD, Inc.
Additionally, Plaintiff seeks to foreclose on four of those
properties for which it recorded mechanic's liens.
 
On
August 7, 2024, Defendants’ filed a Motion to
Transfer Action (Second and Sixth Causes of Action) to Proper Venue, arguing:
·      
Defendants move this Court for an Order dismissing, without
prejudice, or transferring the venue for the Second Cause of Action for
Foreclosure of Mechanics Lien (Count 1) and the Sixth Cause of Action for
Foreclosure of Mechanics Lien (Count III) to the Superior Court of California,
County of San Diego pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure sections
396b and 397(a) as venue in this court is improper because the two properties
are located in San Diego County.
·      
Defendants also assert in their Notice that the First Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract and the Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract, relating to the two properties in San Diego, should also be
transferred to the Superior Court of California, County of San Diego pursuant
to the doctrine of Forum Non Conveniens as set forth in California Code of Civil
Procedure sections 410.30 and 418.10.
·      
Defendants are requesting $9,355.00 in attorney fees and costs
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 396b (b) and section
399(a).
 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendants’
request for transfer is inappropriate. Plaintiff is located in Chino, California. Defendant, The WCCD,
Inc. is in located in Los Angeles, California. Counsel for plaintiff is located
in Los Angeles and counsel for the Defendants is located in Orange County. Two
of the properties involved in the lien claims (the fourth and eighth causes of
action) are located in Los Angeles.
o   Here, there
are common questions of fact and law as it relates to the contractual relations
between Plaintiff and The WCCD, Inc., the work performed by Plaintiff, the
value of that work and whether or not the remaining Defendants are subject to
the remedy of foreclosure.
o   There is very
little inconvenience to any potential parties or witnesses as only a minute
portion of the overall claims related to the San Diego properties and most of the
claims are against The WCCD, Inc.
o   Judicial
economy will not be promoted.
Judicial
resources and facilities will be more efficiently utilized if the claims are
kept consolidated because there will be a single judge in a single courtroom
hearing any and all pretrial motions and a single trial which will avoid
duplication of judicial and staff time in two separate counties
·      
The request for attorneys fees is inappropriate and excessive
·      
Plaintiff filed this opposition late due to a mistake in
calendaring
 
Defendants
filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s mechanics lien claims as to the two San Diego
properties are untimely because they were not filed in the correct county. 
·      
Plaintiff’s attempt to coordinate and/or consolidate actions via
its opposition is inappropriate
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Late Filed
Opposition
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff failed to
timely file its opposition. 
 
Opposition papers are required to be filed and served at
least nine court days prior to the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
Here, the motion is set for hearing on September 4, 2024 and
Plaintiff’s opposition was to be filed and served no later than August 21,
2024. Plaintiff’s opposition was filed on August 26, 2024 one day before
Defendants’ reply was due. Plaintiff asserts the opposition was filed late
because of counsel’s mistake in calendaring the hearing on this motion.
(Oppos., p. 4.) The Court does not find Plaintiff’s excuse warranted the late
filing. However, a court may properly consider papers that are not timely filed
pursuant to CCP section 1005(b) unless “substantial rights” are affected.
 (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d); Code Civ. Proc., § 475.) Since
Defendants were able to respond to Plaintiff’s opposition in its Reply, the
Court, in its discretion, considers the arguments raised in Plaintiff’s late
filed opposition.
 
B.      Legal
Standard
 
The
court may, on motion, transfer an action to the proper court.  CCP §
396(b).  The moving party must overcome the presumption that the action is
filed in the proper court.  Therefore, Defendants bear the burden to
demonstrate that the plaintiff's venue selection is not proper under any of the
statutory grounds.  Fontaine v. Sup. Ct. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
830, 836.  “Venue is determined based on the complaint on file at the time
the motion to change venue is made.”  Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1984) 37
Cal.3d 477, 482. 
 
Pursuant
to CCP § 392(a): “Subject to the power of the court to transfer actions and
proceedings as provided in this title, the superior court in the county where
the real property that is the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is
situated, is the proper court for the trial of the following actions:
 
(1) For
the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the
determination in any form, of that right or interest, and for injuries to real
property.
(2) For
the foreclosure of all liens and mortgages on real property.”
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 396b(a) provides as follows: “If an action or
proceeding is commenced in a court having jurisdiction of the subject matter
thereof, other than the court designated as the proper court for the trial
thereof, under this title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the
court where commenced, unless the defendant, at the time he or she answers,
demurs, or moves to strike, or, at his or her option, without answering,
demurring, or moving to strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond
to the complaint, files with the clerk, a notice of motion for an order
transferring the action or proceeding to the proper court, together with proof
of service, upon the adverse party, of a copy of those papers.” “Upon the
hearing of the motion the court shall, if it appears that the action or
proceeding was not commenced in the proper court, order the action or
proceeding transferred to the proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 396b(a).) Code
Civ. Proc. § 397(a) also provides “The court may, on motion, change the place
of trial…[w]hen the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.”
 
C.     
Discussion
 
Defendants move
the Court for an Order dismissing, without prejudice, or transferring the venue
for the Second Cause of Action for Foreclosure of Mechanics Lien (Count 1) and
the Sixth Cause of Action for Foreclosure of Mechanics Lien (Count III) to the
Superior Court of California, County of San Diego pursuant to California Code
of Civil Procedure sections 396b and 397(a).
 
Defendant
argues transfer is warranted because venue in this Court is improper since the
real properties that are subject of the lien foreclosure actions are located in
San Diego County, not Los Angeles County. According to the Complaint:
 
“On
information and believe, at all relevant times hereto, CMPI was the owner of
that real property commonly known as 3030 Plaza Bonita Rd., Space 1076,
National City, CA 9150 (“Property 1”).” (Complaint, ¶ 9.)
 
“On
information and belief, at all relevant times hereto, UTCV was the owner of
that real property commonly known as 4545 La Jolla Village Dr. #F14, San Diego
CA 92122 (“Property 3”).” (Complaint, ¶ 21.)
 
Thus, it is
undisputed that the Properties 1 and 3 are located in San Diego County. Defendants
also assert the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract and the Fifth
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract, relating to the two properties in San
Diego, should also be transferred to the Superior Court of California, County
of San Diego pursuant to the doctrine of Forum Non Conveniens as set forth in
California Code of Civil Procedure sections 410.30 and 418.10. 
 
In
Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil Procedure section
404.1, which provides that:
 
“Coordination
of civil actions sharing a common question of fact or law is appropriate if one
judge hearing all of the actions for all purposes in a selected site or sites
will promote the ends of justice taking into account whether the common
question of fact or law is predominating and significant to the litigation; the
convenience of parties, witnesses, and counsel; the relative development of the
actions and the work product of counsel; the efficient utilization of judicial
facilities and manpower; the calendar of the courts; the disadvantages of duplicative
and inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and, the likelihood of settlement
of the actions without further litigation should coordination be denied.”
 
However, the
Court does not find that this provision is appropriate as CCP 404.1 applies to
separate civil actions sharing a common question of fact or law. Here, the
actions are currently not separately pending in different venues. 
 
The Court
finds transfer to the Superior Court of California, County of San Diego is appropriate.
In lien foreclosure actions, the action must be tried in the county in which
the land is situated. (Case v. Kirkwood (1931) 119 Cal. App. 207, 211.)
The proper court in lien foreclosure actions is a court of the county in which
the land is located. (Douglas v. Donner Pines, Inc. (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
268, 270.) Since the first, second, fifth and sixth causes of action pertain to
properties located in San Diego, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to
transfer these causes of action to the Superior Court of California, County of
San Diego is appropriate. 
 
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff should be ordered to pay the reasonable expenses and
attorney’s fees incurred in bringing this motion. 
 
“In its
discretion, the court may order the payment to the prevailing party of
reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in making or resisting the
motion to transfer whether or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover
his or her costs of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 396b(b).) “In determining
whether that order for expenses and fees shall be made, the court shall take
into consideration (1) whether an offer to stipulate to change of venue was
reasonably made and rejected, and (2) whether the motion or selection of venue
was made in good faith given the facts and law the party making the motion or
selecting the venue knew or should have known.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendants
submit the declaration of its’ counsel stating that they offered to stipulate
to a change of venue to San Diego County, where Property 1 and Property 3 are
situated and which is otherwise a proper court for trial of this action. (Kring
Decl., ¶
4.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not agree to stipulate. (Ibid.) Defendants
request $9,355.00 in attorney fees and costs. Defendants’ counsel
states he expended 7.5 hours preparing the moving papers and anticipates spending
another 4-5 hours reviewing and replying to any opposition filed and appearing
at the hearing on this motion. (Kring Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel’s customary
hourly rate is $500.00. (Ibid.) Thus, Defendants request $9,355.00
calculated as follows: $6,250.00 attorney fees + $3,105.00 in filing fees/costs
($435.00 x 7 Parties = $3,045.00 + $60 = $3,105.00).
 
Since the Court grants Defendants’ motion, the
Court finds attorneys fees are warranted. However, the Court finds the amount
requested is excessive due to the type of motion at issue and the fact that
counsel can appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court awards attorneys
fees in the total amount of $7,105.00 (8 hours of attorney time at $500 an hour
and $3,105.00
in filing fees/costs).
 
In sum, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion. The Court grants Defendants’
request to transfer the first, second, fifth and sixth causes of action to the Superior
Court of California, County of San Diego.
 
The
Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for attorneys fees against Plaintiff and
their attorney of record in the reduced amount of $7,105.00. Said attorneys fees are to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion. The Court grants Defendants’
request to transfer the first, second, fifth and sixth causes of action to the Superior
Court of California, County of San Diego.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for attorneys fees
against Plaintiff and their attorney of record in the reduced amount of $7,105.00. Said attorneys fees are
to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order