 Case Number:  23STCV18993    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  73 9/04/2024
Dept. 73
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SCHUMAN v. CITIBANK, N.A.  (23STCV22314)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/opposing party:  Wendy
Giberti (iGeneral Counsel, PC)
Counsel
for Defendants/moving party:  Alexandra
Whitworth (Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner LLP)
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT (filed 04/08/24)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s first, second and third causes of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff Steven Schuman filed this action
against Defendants Citibank N.A. and Jesse Nathan Tyre-Karp. This action arises
from alleged wrongful actions regarding a loan refinance as to a property
located at 1500 North Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Beverly
Property”).
 
On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, and (3)
promissory estoppel. 
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff is and has been the owner
of the single-family residence commonly known as 1500 North Beverly Drive,
Beverly Hills, California 90210 (the “Beverly Property”). On or about March 15,
2022, Plaintiff entered an escrow to purchase a new home located at 691 Sheehy,
Nipomo, California (the “Sheehy Property”) for a purchase price of $2,905,000. On
or about March 16, 2022, Plaintiff contacted Tyre-Karp, who agreed to assist
with a
purchase money loan for the Sheehy Property as well as help to refinance the
Beverly Property on advantageous terms: $1,500,000 loan, 3.375% fixed for 30
years and no points. Schuman ultimately decided to cancel the purchase of the Sheehy
Property but was still interested in the refinance loan. 
 
On April 20, 2022, Citibank issued a conditional loan approval.
(FAC, Ex. 3.) The conditional loan approval stated that Schuman was required,
as a condition of the loan, to deposit at least $50,000 of new funds in a
Citibank account. Tyre-Karp told Schuman that if he deposited $500,000, the
rate would drop to 3.125%. On April 22, 2022, Schuman deposited over $500,000
into two Citibank accounts paying nominal interest. On May 5,
2022, Citibank issued a refinance “Mortgage Loan Commitment,” confirming the
terms: $1,500,000 loan, 3.125% fixed for 30 years and no points. As of May 5,
2022, Citibank had begun performance pursuant to the agreed upon contract. In
particular, Citibank unilaterally and without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent,
closed Plaintiff’s home equity line of credit (HELOC) with First Citizens Bank.
Schuman knew and understood that
the HELOC would be closed when the loan from Citibank closed. Schuman never
agreed, however, to allow Citibank to close the HELOC in advance and without
making the loan. 
 
Thereafter, on May 6,
2022, Citibank sent Schuman a Closing Disclosure, which contained new and
materially different terms, specifically that Citibank proposed to take about
90% of the cash to borrower and use that money to pay off two unrelated loans
on investment properties in Seattle. At no time was paying those two loans off
a condition of the loan. When Schuman refused to close on those terms, Tyre-Karp stated
that the Loan had to be resubmitted to underwriting.
 
Schuman reasonably relied on Citibank to make the loan, both by
performing as set forth above, but also by not seeking the same or a similar
loan otherwise and by proceeding through that point with the purchase of a
second home. Schuman spent at least 30 hours, and probably much more than that,
collecting documents requested by Citibank and communicating with Citibank to
get this loan. Schuman’s actions changed his position to his detriment based on
Citibank’s promise to perform.
On
April 8, 2024, Defendants filed a Demurrer to the FAC, arguing:
·      
The first, second and third causes of
action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
·      
First cause of action for breach of
contract fails because: (1) Plaintiff does not allege the existence of a valid
contract, only a conditional loan approval; (2) the alleged contract is barred
by the statute of frauds; and (3) Plaintiff does not allege damages caused by
Citibank
·      
Plaintiff’s fraud claims all fail
because Plaintiff does not allege fraud with the required specificity. The
economic loss rule also bars Plaintiff’s causes of action. 
·      
Plaintiff’s promissory estoppel cause
of action fails because Plaintiff fails to identify any clear and unambiguous
promise. Plaintiff also does not sufficiently plead detrimental reliance. 
Plaintiff filed an
opposition, arguing:
·       Breach of contract:
Plaintiff sufficiently pleads breach of contract. The Final Loan agreement is
an enforceable contract. The statute of frauds does not bar this claim because
Defendant partially performed. Plaintiff also sufficiently alleges damages.
·       Fraud: the economic loss
doctrine does not apply to actual fraud. Further, Plaintiff has pled fraud with
required specificity.
·       Promissory estoppel: The FAC
adequately alleges a promise, precise and reasonable reliance thereon, and very
specific resulting damages.
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff
fails to state a cause of action. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a
cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of: The Court’s
ruling on Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s initial Complaint.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) The Court
may take judicial notice of its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.)
 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice.
 
C.     
Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a
declaration stating he met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel on March 19,
2024. (Root Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds the moving party has satisfied its meet and
confer obligation. 
 
D.    
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
To state
a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.) “The terms of a contract are reasonably certain if they provide a basis
for determining the existence of a breach and for giving an appropriate
remedy.” (Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768,
777.) “Where a contract is so uncertain and indefinite that the intention of
the parties in material particulars cannot be ascertained, the contract is void
an unenforceable.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) 
 
“[A]
loan commitment is not binding on the lender unless it contains all of the
material terms of the loan, and either the lender’s obligation is unconditional
or the stated conditions have been satisfied.” (Peterson Development Co. v.
Torrey Pines Bank (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 103, 115.) “The material terms of a
loan include the identity of the lender and borrower, the amount of the loan,
and the terms for repayment.” (Ibid.) An “agreement to agree . . . is
unenforceable under California law.” (Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc. (2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 199, 213.) “Preliminary negotiations or [agreements] for future
negotiations are not the functional equivalent of a valid, subsisting
agreement.” (Id. at p. 213-214.)
 
First, Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to allege the
existence of a valid contract, but rather only a conditional loan approval. 
 
The Court agrees. As the Court discussed in its order sustaining
the breach of contract claim in the original Complaint, the Court does not find
the exhibits attached to the FAC support Plaintiff’s allegation that he and
Defendant Citibank entered into a contract for a refinancing loan.
 
As the Court previously found, it appears the Mortgage Loan
Commitment is a notification that Plaintiff’s loan application was approved and
that such approval was subject to further conditions. (FAC, Ex. 5.) The
Mortgage Loan Commitment has a Borrower’s Checklist attached thereto which
states that “[i]n order to complete the processing of [Plaintiff’s] real estate
loan application” further documents were required and if such documents were
not approved then any conditional approval would be revoked. (FAC; Ex. 5 at
Borrower’s Checklist, p.1.) Moreover, the Mortgage Loan Commitment provides
that Defendant Citibank reserved the right to terminate the Mortgage Loan
Commitment “prior to the settlement of the loan in the event of an adverse
change in [Plaintiff’s] personal or financial status.” (FAC, Ex. 5 at Mortgage
Loan Commitment at p.1.) The Closing Disclosure—which was sent to Plaintiff
after the Mortgage Loan Commitment—gave Plaintiff an opportunity to review his
loan prior to the closing date. (FAC, Ex. 6.) Taken together, the exhibits
attached to the FAC evidence a series of negotiations and “agreements to agree.”
The Mortgage Loan Commitment further provides: “We reserve the right to verify
your credit, income, assets, and employment at any time.” The Broker’s
Checklist provides: “Other information may be requested during the processing
of your loan which are not known at this time.” This is even more evident given
Plaintiff’s allegation that he refused to close on the terms in the Mortgage
Loan Commitment and Closing Disclosure, which led to the loan being resubmitted
to underwriting. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants partially performed by closing
Plaintiff’s existing HELOC, an act which was necessary to close the new loan. However,
“a loan commitment is not binding on the lender unless it contains all the
material terms of the loan, and either the lender’s obligation is unconditional,
or the stated conditions have been satisfied.” (Peterson Dev. Co. v. Torrey
Pines Bank (1991) 233 Cal. App.3d 103, 115.) Thus, the Court does not find
Plaintiff’s argument persuasive. The Court does not find Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged a valid contract. 
 
Based on this ground, the Court SUSTAINS the first cause of action
with leave to amend. Thus, the Court does not discuss the parties arguments as
to whether the first cause of action also fails due to the statute of frauds or
for failure to sufficiently plead damages. 
 
E.     
Second Cause of Action: Fraud
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for fraud. 
 
“The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To
properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the
names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The FAC alleges the following. Defendants
repeatedly lied to Plaintiff regarding the amount of cash, almost $1,000,000,
he would receive when the Loan closed. At all times, Defendants knew Plaintiff
would not receive anywhere close to $1,000,000 of the promised cash out at
closing, as they intended to impose the additional condition that he pay off
the two Seattle loans through escrow. Plaintiff reasonably relied on the
representations made by Defendants regarding the amount of cash out at closing.
Defendants knew Schuman intended to move, as the matter had been discussed
repeatedly in writing. Defendants repeatedly represented that that was not a
problem, and that remaining in the Beverly Property was not a condition of the
loan. Yet, in fact, Defendants always intended to require Schuman to execute a
deed of trust stating that he had to remain in the Beverly Property for at
least 12 months, on pain of foreclosure. Defendants
then engaged in a last minute “bait and switch,” which rendered the Loan of
little or no value to Plaintiff. Specifically, Defendants knew the locked rate
expired on May 20, 2022, just two weeks after Citibank switched the Loan terms,
leaving Schuman no time to obtain other financing. (FAC, ¶¶ 49-56.)
 
First, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s fraud
cause of action fails because it is barred by the economic loss rule. The
damages for Plaintiff’s fraud claim are the same as his damages for breach of
contract. (FAC, ¶ 60.) Therefore, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not
identified a duty separate from the breach of contract. (See Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 554 (“A breach of contract is tortious only
when some independent duty arising from tort law is violated”).)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Defendants
engaged in a scheme, created at the outset, to lure him into a contract,
deprive him of his liquid assets, and then bind him to an entirely different
contract.” (Oppos., p. 10.) Thus, Plaintiff contends his fraud claim is not
barred by the economic loss rule because Defendants’ conduct in fraudulently
inducing him to enter a contract is separate from Defendants’ later breach of
the contract. (See Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828.) 
 
However, as discussed above, the Court does not
find Plaintiff sufficiently alleged the existence of a valid contract. Instead, the Mortgage
Loan Commitment only indicates that Plaintiff’s loan application was approved
and that such approval was subject to further conditions. Therefore, since
Plaintiff has not shown the existence of a valid contract, Plaintiff’s
allegation that Defendants lured him into a contract fails. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS the second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
F.      
Third Cause of Action: Promissory Estoppel
 
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for promissory estoppel. 
 
“The elements of a promissory estoppel claim are (1) a promise
clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the
promise is made; (3) the reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and
(4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.” (Flintco
Pacific, Inc. v. TEC Management Consultants, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 727,
734, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant Citibank made a clear and
unambiguous written promise to loan Plaintiff $1,500,000 at a fixed rate of
3.375% with a thirty-year term.” (FAC, ¶ 63.) Plaintiff relied on Citibank’s
promise by depositing $500,000 in a separate Citibank account, foregoing other
lenders, by paying for an appraisal, and by spending upwards of 30 hours
providing documents and answering questions. (FAC, ¶ 64.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not stated a cause of action
for promissory estoppel. A conditional commitment is “not a clear and
unambiguous offer.” (Laks v. Coast Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn. (1976) 60
Cal.App.3d 885, 891.) A letter of commitment cannot serve as the basis for a
promissory estoppel claim unless “the lender’s obligation is unconditional or
the stated conditions have been satisfied.” (Peterson Development Co. v.
Torrey Pines Bank (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 103, 115.) As discussed above, the
purported Conditional Loan Approval and Mortgage Loan Commitments appear to be
conditional commitments. Thus, Plaintiff’s promissory estoppel claim fails
because Plaintiff has not alleged a clear and unambiguous promise. 
 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the third cause of action with leave
to amend.
 
DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s first, second and third causes of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 