 Case Number:  23STCV17071    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Triller Hold Co LLC’s Motion to
Set Aside Default
Defendant Triller Hold Co LLC (Triller) moves to set
aside its default.  
Triller shows valid grounds for relief from
default.  Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b) provides, “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party
or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.”  “Because
the law favors disposing of cases on their merits, ‘any doubts in applying
section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from
default.’ ”  (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994)
8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)
Triller’s default resulted from its mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  Plaintiff
Shayan Rostam personally served the summons on Triller on July 24, 2023, via
its registered agent for service of process, Paracorp Inc.  (Kandel Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)  Paracorp Inc. sent “all notices, including
any notices of service of process to Triller, only to” the email address for Triller’s
former general counsel, Craig Zimmerman. 
(Lee Decl., ¶ 5.)  Zimmerman left
Triller unexpectedly on June 5, 2023.  (Id.,
¶¶ 3-4.)  “At the time of Mr. Zimmerman’s
departure, Triller expected that he would transfer all of his tasks to other members
of the in-house legal department, including” in-house attorney Evan Lee, “or to
Triller’s outside counsel.”  (Id.,
¶ 6.)  “Zimerman did not transfer the
Paracorp notification account to anyone else. 
No one at Triller knew of this fact.” 
(Id., ¶¶ 7-8.)  
The clerk entered Triller’s default on August 30,
2023.  On September 1, 2023, attorney Evan
Lee discovered the oversight (Lee Decl., ¶ 9) when he noticed “no one at
Triller had received any routine notifications from Paracorp, including service
of process notifications, for some time” (id., ¶ 10).
Triller presents sufficient evidence that its
default resulted from mistake or excusable neglect.  When former general counsel Craig Zimmerman
left the company, Triller mistakenly failed to update its contact information
with Paracorp Inc.  Triller and its
responsible employees made a simple, human mistake.  Triller’s mistake is excusable.    
Disposition  
Defendant Triller
Hold Co LLC’s motion to set aside default is granted.  The court hereby vacates the default entered against
defendant Triller Hold Co LLC.  Defendant
Triller Hold Co LLC shall file its proposed responsive pleading (the motion to
compel arbitration attached as Exhibit D to the declaration of Alexander
Kandel) forthwith.