  Case Number:  22STLC05413    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Complainant
Tywon White’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records Against Sunlight Financial, LLC
Cross-complainant
Tywon White moves to compel non-party Sunlight Financial, LLC (Sunlight) to
comply with category Nos. 1-4 and 8 of White’s deposition subpoena for
production of business records.  White
further moves to compel Sunlight to provide an affidavit from its custodian of
records pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.430(a)(2) and Evidence
Code section 1561.
Authority
for Motion to Compel Compliance
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1(a) provides, “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of” records, the court “may make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480(a) provides, “If a deponent fails to answer
any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.”
Notice
to Consumer
Sunlight
generally objected to the subpoena on the basis that it “seeks personal records
pertaining to at least one consumer or business partners’ consumer without
providing that consumer’s written authorization to release personal records or
a copy of the proof of service of the notice to the consumer.”  (Valdez Decl., Ex. 2, p. 2.)  When a party serves a “subpoena duces tecum
for the production of personal records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or
cause to be served on the consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the
subpoena duces tecum” and a specified notice to the consumer.  (CCP § 1985.3(b).)  
That
procedure does not apply because White does not seek “personal records” under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3(a)(1). 
That subdivision defines “ ‘Personal records’ ” as copies of documents “pertaining
to a consumer and which are maintained by any ‘witness’ which is” one of
numerous categories of service providers or institutions, such as healthcare
providers, banks, attorneys, accountants, and schools.  (Ibid.)  Sunlight has not shown that it falls within
any of those categories.  White therefore
was not required to follow the procedure under Code of Civil Procedure section
1985.3.  
Sunlight’s
objections on this basis are overruled.
Category
Nos. 1-4
            White shows adequate grounds to
compel Sunlight to produce documents in response to category Nos. 1-4.  Nos. 1 and 3 demand agreements between
Sunlight and parties Entron Holding, Inc. and Alliant Credit Union “related to
financing the sale and installation of photovoltaic systems, that were in
effect in 2022.”  Nos. 2 and 4 demand
Sunlight’s agreements with Entron or Alliant, respectively, regarding the
photovoltaic system installed at White’s property.  To these requests, Sunlight responded, “Sunlight is awaiting the entry of a protective order
or acceptance of the discussed draft confidentiality agreement prior to
production of any documents related to this request.”  (Valdez Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 4.)  Sunlight also asserted numerous objections it
made to all the requests.  (Id.,
Ex. 2.)  
            White
shows good cause for these demands.  The
requests are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  All are sufficiently tailored
to this dispute.  Sunlight does not establish
a valid basis for any of its objections. 
It did not oppose this motion.  It
did not “promptly move for a protective order.” 
(CCP § 2025.420(a).)  Moreover,
White offered to enter a protective order, but White and Sunlight could not
agree on the terms.  (Valdez Decl., Ex.
5.)
            Sunlight’s
objections to category Nos. 1-4 are overruled.
Category
No. 8
            White shows adequate grounds to
compel Sunlight to produce documents in response to category No. 8.  This category demands, “All records RELATED
to complaints YOU have received about Entron Holding, Inc. doing business as
Enerpower from January 1, 2019 to present.” 
Along with its general objections (Valdez Decl., Ex. 2), Sunlight
responded, “Subject to and without waiving the attached objections and
previously mailed objection letter, Sunlight has produced the enclosed,
responsive documents after a reasonable search of its records.  Sunlight reserves the right to supplement its
production in the event more responsive documents are found.”  (Id., Ex. 4, p. 3.)
            This response is insufficient.  A deponent responding to a deposition
subpoena for the production of business records must provide “[a]n affidavit in
compliance with Section 1561 of the Evidence Code.”  (CCP § 2020.430(a)(2).)  It must be an “affidavit of the custodian or
other qualified witness” (Evid. Code, § 1561(a)) and therefore must be signed
under penalty of perjury.  The affidavit
must also include other statements, including that the deponent provided “a
true copy of all the records described in the subpoena duces
tecum.”  (Id., subd. (a)(2).)  Sunlight’s unverified response merely
indicates it has produced some documents. 
It does not state under penalty of perjury that it has produced all
documents in its possession within the category demanded.  White is entitled to an order compelling
Sunlight to provide a compliant affidavit from its custodian of records or
other qualified witness.  
For
the same reasons as for category Nos. 1-4, Sunlight does not justify its
objections.  Sunlight’s objections to
category No. 8 are overruled.  
Disposition
            Cross-complainant Tywon White’s
motion to compel non-party Sunlight Financial, LLC to comply with deposition subpoena
is granted.  Sunlight Financial,
LLC is ordered to produce all documents responsive to category Nos. 1-4,
subject to the protective order proposed by White, within 30 days.  Sunlight Financial, LLC is ordered to
produce all documents responsive to category No. 8 within 30 days.  Sunlight Financial, LLC is ordered to provide
an affidavit in compliance with Evidence Code section 1561 within 30 days.  