 Case Number:  23STCV06014    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc.’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.Defendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc.’s Request for an Award of Attorney Fees and Costs is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,560, payable by Plaintiff The Tash Family Trust, dated November 20, 2014, Raymond Tash, Trustee and Plaintiff’s counsel to Defendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc. and defense counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Defendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc. to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc. (“Defendants”) move to expunge the lis pendens recorded by Plaintiff The Tash Family Trust, dated November 20, 2014, Raymond Tash, Trustee (“Plaintiff”) against the residence at 2959 North Beverly Glen Circle, Los Angeles, California 90077. Defendants argue that the lis pendens should be expunged based on Plaintiff’s inability to prove the probable validity of a real property claim against Defendants. Defendants also seek an award of attorney fees and costs in the amount of $4,965.00.Code of Civil Procedure section 405.30 provides that a property owner may seek to remove an improperly recorded lis pendens by filing a motion to expunge based upon any of several statutory bases. (See Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 647-648.) One basis for such a motion is where “the claimant has not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.) The claimant, that is, the party opposing the motion to expunge, “shall have the burden of proof” to demonstrate “the probable validity of the real property claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.30, 405.32.) “‘Probable validity,’ with respect to a real property claim, means that it is more likely than not that the claimant will obtain a judgment against the defendant on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.3.)While each claim alleged by Plaintiff in the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) relates to its claim that Defendants wrongfully foreclosed on the property in violation of an agreement to postpone the sale, the true real property claim is that for wrongful foreclosure, wherein Plaintiff alleges that Defendants agreed to postpone the February 2023 foreclosure sale in exchange for receiving a cash payment, which was made, but Defendants sold the property without notice to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff is excused from tendering any indebtedness based on Defendants’ fraud. (SAC ¶ 38.)“The elements of a wrongful foreclosure cause of action are: (1) The trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale (usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and (3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale, the trustor or mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering.” (Citrus El Dorado, LLC v. Chicago Title Co. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 943, 948, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) “The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)Plaintiff alleges that it is the former owner of the property at 2959 North Beverly Glen Circle, and it obtained a loan from Defendants Vladimir Valsky and VIG Private Lending Inc. for a first and second mortgage. (SAC ¶¶ 8-9.) Plaintiff fell behind on payments in June or July 2022, trustee Raymond Tash entered into an agreement to refinance the loans, and Defendant Valsky assured Tash that he would take no action on the loans if Tash kept up with the progress of the refinance. (SAC ¶¶ 10-11.) Valsky then filed a Notice of Default against the property, and Tash entered into a purchase agreement with a third party. (SAC ¶ 12.) Valsky agreed to extend the payment timeline on the loans, but Valsky later informed Tash that the foreclosure sale had gone forward, and Valsky had ownership of the property, but he would quitclaim the property to Tash to sell the property. (SAC ¶¶ 13-16.) The third party informed Tash that the refinancing had been ruined, Tash was served with a 3-day notice, and Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were attempting to extort money from Tash. (SAC ¶¶ 17-19.) Plaintiff states it complied with its part of the bargain with Defendants, but Defendants violated the agreement to postpone the foreclosure sale and caused the foreclosure sale to go through without notice to Plaintiff. (SAC ¶ 38.)Plaintiffs state they performed their obligations, and Defendants breached the agreement to continue the sale. (SAC ¶¶ 23-24.) It is clear from the SAC that Plaintiff alleges an oral agreement to postpone the foreclosure sale, but “[a] mortgage or deed of trust [] comes within the statute of frauds,” as does “[a]n agreement to modify a contract that is subject to the statute of frauds,” such as a loan modification agreement or agreement to postpone a sale, and such agreements must be in writing to be valid. (Secrest v. Security National Mortgage Loan Trust 2002-2 (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 544, 552, 553.)In opposition, Plaintiff appears to contend that the wrongful foreclosure claim can proceed on a promissory estoppel theory. First, Plaintiff has alleged no such theory in the SAC. Second, “[t]he elements of a promissory estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) the reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.” (Flintco Pacific, Inc. v. TEC Management Consultants, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 727, 734, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) Plaintiff contends that the Tash family relied on the postponement promise by paying the taxes, getting the mortgage current, and paying $7,500 for the postponement (Second Decl. of Raymond M. Tash ¶ 2), but Plaintiff alleges that postponement would occur if Tash paid Valsky $200,000 to $300,000, not pay the taxes, get the mortgage current, and pay $7,500. “Promissory estoppel applies whenever a promise which the promissor should reasonably expect to induce action or forbearance on the part of the promisee or a third person and which does induce such action or forbearance would result in an injustice if the promise were not enforced.” (Aceves v. U.S. Bank, N.A. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 227, quotation marks omitted.) The Court cannot find that Plaintiff can prove his promissory estoppel claim where he alleges that he was required to pay $200,000 to $300,000 pursuant to the promise, but he paid only $7,500. It follows that the failure to provide a writing of an agreement to postpone the sale renders Plaintiff unable to prove it wrongful foreclosure claim due to the statute of frauds, and Plaintiff cannot prove the claim under a promissory estoppel theory where Plaintiff did not act in line with the promise.Thus, because Plaintiff cannot establish by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of its real property claim, Defendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc.’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.Defendants request $4,965 in attorney fees and costs for prevailing on this motion. Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38 provides that “the court shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.” The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper here, but the Court reduces the award to $1,810, which represents three hours preparing the motion, one hour preparing a reply, and one hour appearing at the hearing on this motion, for a total of five hours at the rate of $350 per hour, as neither this action nor this motion are particularly complicated, plus one $60 motion filing fee. Accordingly, Defendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc.’s Request for an Award of Attorney Fees and Costs is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,810, payable by Plaintiff The Tash Family Trust, dated November 20, 2014, Raymond Tash, Trustee and Plaintiff’s counsel to Defendants Vladimir Valsky, Val Serebryany, as trustee of the Serebryany Family Trust, and VIG Private Lending, Inc. and defense counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.