 Case Number:  22SMCV01645    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING:Cross-Complainant Louis Correll’s Application for Default Judgment is CONTINUED to be determined at hearing to allow Cross-Complainant to submit supplemental evidence as set forth below.First, the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, Local Rules, rule 3.214(a) sets forth the schedule one must follow when seeking attorney fees in a default judgment. Cross-Complainant’s request here does not comply with the schedule set forth in that rule.Second, it is axiomatic that “[p]laintiffs in a default judgment proceeding must prove they are entitled to the damages claimed.” (Kim v. Westmore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 288.) While a default generally admits the allegations of the complaint, this does not relieve a plaintiff of a duty to establish causation and damages. (See Ostling v. Loring (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1731, 1745 [sufficiency of evidence supporting default is not reviewed only “as to matters for which no proof is required by virtue of the admission by default of the allegations of the complaint ... as to damages which, despite default, require proof the general rule does not apply”].) Cross-Complainant fails to sufficiently describe why he is entitled to $29,839 in damages. He sets forth the $34,449 he paid to complete the work, and he states that the total amount paid was $99,939, and the difference between the contract and the amount paid was $19,839, such that he appears entitled to $19,839 in damages, but he also seeks $10,000 for diminution in value of the pool due to the reduced size of what was constructed compared to the plans, but there is no evidence that Cross-Complainant lacked opportunity to construct the pool at the preferred size; rather, it would seem he made a choice to finish the work in a certain manner and now seeks to hold Cross-Defendant Keystone Remodeling, Inc. liable for that construction choice. Put simply, the nature of Cross-Complainant’s purported loss for the change in size of the pool is not clear to the Court.Cross-Complainant shall either reduce the amount of damages sought, or he must explain why he is entitled to $10,000 in diminution of value damages. Cross-Complainant must also amend his request for attorney fees to comply with the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, Local Rules, rule 3.214(a).TENTATIVE RULINGCross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Louis Correll’s Motion Under Civil Code section 8480, et seq., to Petition for Expungement of Mechanic’s Lien of Cross-Defendant Keystone Remodeling Inc. is DENIED without prejudice.Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Louis Correll’s Request for an Award of Fees and Costs is DENIED.Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Louis Correll to give notice.REASONINGCross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Louis Correll (“Correll”) moves the Court for an order releasing the mechanic’s lien claim recorded on August 18, 2022, as Document No. 20220830408 as to the property located at 40741 Augusta Court in Palmdale. Civil Code section 8460, subdivision (a), provides that “[t]he claimant shall commence an action to enforce a lien within 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien,” and “[i]f the claimant does not commence an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien expires and is unenforceable.” Correll contends that Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Keystone Remodeling, Inc. (“Keystone Remodeling”) failed to timely file a complaint for foreclosure of the mechanic’s lien, thereby allowing it to expire and become void.When no action has been brought to foreclose a mechanic’s lien within the time allowed, the owner of the property or an interest in the property may petition the court for an order releasing the property from the lien. (Civ. Code, § 8480, subd. (a).) The petition must be verified and contain the following information, as stated in Civil Code section 8484:(a) The date of recordation of the claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the petition – Correll has provided a copy of the mechanic’s lien, but the copy is not certified. (Mot., Ricks Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)(b) The county in which the claim of lien is recorded – The mechanic’s lien was recorded in Los Angeles County, as shown on the copy of the mechanic’s lien. (Mot., Ricks Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)(c) The book and page or series number of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded – This information is not included within the copy of the mechanic’s lien provided with the motion. (See Mot., Ricks Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) (d) The legal description of the property subject to the claim of lien – The property is described in the mechanic’s lien as 40741 Augusta Court in Palmdale. (Mot., Ricks Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) (e) Whether an extension of credit has been granted under [Civil Code section] 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired – This information has not been provided.(f) That the owner has given the claimant notice under [Civil Code section] 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found – Exhibit 2 to the motion shows that Correll has demanded that Keystone Remodeling execute and record a release of the lien, but there is no evidence that Keystone Remodeling was unable or unwilling to do so. (Mot., Ricks Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) In opposition to the motion, Keystone Remodeling states that they intend to record a release of the mechanic’s lien. (Opp’n, Bolin Decl. ¶ 7.)(g) Whether an action to enforce the lien is pending – There is no pending action to enforce the lien. (h) Whether the owner of the property or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to enforce the lien – This information has not been provided.The petition and notice of the hearing date must be served upon the lien claimant at least 15 days before the hearing. (Civ. Code, § 8486, subd. (b).) “Service shall be made in the same manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the claimant as provided in [Civil Code section] 8108.” (Ibid.) “Notwithstanding [Civil Code section] 8116, when service is made by mail, service is complete on the fifth day following deposit of the petition and notice in the mail.” (Civ. Code, § 8486, subd. (c).)Put simply, Correll has failed to meet all requirements set forth in Civil Code section 8480 et seq. Accordingly, Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Louis Correll’s Motion Under Civil Code section 8480, et seq., to Petition for Expungement of Mechanic’s Lien of Cross-Defendant Keystone Remodeling Inc. is DENIED without prejudice, and Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Louis Correll’s Request for an Award of Fees and Costs is DENIED. Should Keystone Remodeling fail to release the mechanic’s lien, Correll may refile this petition.