  Case Number:  21STCV06169    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff John Doe’s Ex Parte Motion to Seal Exhibit Numbers 13, 22, and 23 Attached to the Previously Filed Declaration of John Gomez in Support [of] Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment is CONTINUED to a date TBD. On or before a date TBD, Plaintiff John Doe shall file a supplemental brief of no more than five (5) pages describing a basis for sealing the identified documents.Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to a date TBD. On or before a date TBD, the parties shall provide revised separate statements and exhibits for the Court’s review. Defendants shall provide a transcript of any audio recordings on which it relies, and the transcripts must be properly and individually authenticated by an employee of the Culver City Police Department with personal knowledge to so authenticate. Plaintiff shall provide a tabbed version of his compendium of exhibits. The parties may also opt to refile their motion, opposition, and reply in full should that be necessary.Moving parties to give notice.REASONINGPlaintiff John Doe’s Ex Parte Motion to Seal Exhibit Numbers 13, 22, and 23 Attached to the Previously Filed Declaration of John Gomez in Support [of] Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary JudgmentThe trial court “may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (McGuan v. Endovascular Techs., Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988, paragraph breaks omitted.)Plaintiff John Doe (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order to seal Exhibits 13, 22, and 23, attached to the declaration of John Gomez in support of Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication. Exhibit 13 consists of excerpts from the deposition of James Smith, Exhibit 22 is a copy of the Hilton Global Brand Operating Standards, and Exhibit 23 is a copy of a Hilton franchise agreement. Plaintiff’s application fails to set forth any basis for sealing these documents, and no reason is readily apparent on the face of the documents, particularly given they have already been publicly filed on the docket without redactions. Accordingly, Plaintiff John Doe’s Ex Parte Motion to Seal Exhibit Numbers 13, 22, and 23 Attached to the Previously Filed Declaration of John Gomez in Support [of] Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment is CONTINUED according to code to correspond with the revised filing. On or before a date TBD, Plaintiff John Doe shall file a supplemental brief of no more than five (5) pages describing a basis for sealing the identified documents.Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary AdjudicationDefendants have filed a motion for summary judgment or adjudication as to Plaintiff’s negligence and premises liability claims against them. The evidence supporting both the motion and opposition are subject to several objections from the opposing party, and, put simply, the parties have made the evidence in this case difficult to review. Defendants have provided audio recordings through hyperlinks within their exhibits, and Defendant has provided a lengthy compendium of exhibits without tabs to assist the Court’s review. The onus is on the parties to allow the Court to easily review their supporting evidence, and neither party has done so here. As to the audio recordings, the Court has concerns about their authentication where Defendants have failed to provide a declaration from anyone from the Culver City Police Department to authenticate the recordings, and reference to another recording as proof of authentication does not alleviate the Court’s concerns in this regard. Further, providing audio recordings requires the Court to listen to the entirety of the recording and decide which lines support the fact provided in the separate statement, placing the burden on the Court to decide which piece of evidence supports the motion. Defendants declined to provide a transcript of these recordings to ease the Court’s burden in this regard. Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to TBD. On or before TBD, the parties shall provide revised separate statements and exhibits for the Court’s review. Defendants shall provide a transcript of any audio recordings on which it relies, and the transcripts must be properly authenticated by an employee of the Culver City Police Department with personal knowledge to so authenticate. Plaintiff shall provide a tabbed version of his compendium of exhibits. The parties may also opt to refile their motion, opposition, and reply in full should that be necessary.