  Case Number:  22SMCV02187    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
WVM v. Noval, Case No. 22SMCV02187
Hearing Date September 20, 2024
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgement
 
Plaintiff WVM Holdings, LLC sues
defendants Victor Franco Noval, Secured Capital Partners, LLC and Jake Noval for
addition of judgement debtors and fraudulent transfer. Plaintiff alleges
defendants conspired with judgement debtors from an original judgement to
defraud plaintiff by fraudulently transferring interest in a Beverly Hills
property to a foreign investor. Defendants move for summary judgment, or in the
alternative summary adjudication, arguing plaintiff cannot present admissible
evidence showing defendants are alter-egos or are otherwise subject to the
original judgement. Defendant also argues plaintiff cannot show that it is a
creditor of defendants.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Under Evid. Code §452(c), (d), and
(g), judicial notice of court records and the executive branch is proper. Id.
When a request for judicial notice is made pursuant to Evid. Code §452, §453
makes it mandatory that the court take judicial notice of the document if the
requesting party: “(a) gives each adverse party sufficient notice of the
request, through the pleading or otherwise, to enable such adverse party to
prepare to meet the request; and (b) furnishes the Court with sufficient
information to enable it to take judicial notice of the matter.” Evid. Code,
§453; see also, Carroll v. Puritan Leasing Co., (1978) 77
Cal.App.3d 481, 486.
 
Defendants request judicial notice
of exhibits B-L and P. Req. for Jud. Not. ¶¶1-13. Each document is either a
record of the State of California executive branch or a court record. As such,
judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
Evidentiary Objections
Defendants’ evidentiary objections
to the declarations of Dominguez and Breuhl are OVERRULED. Defendants’
evidentiary objections to exhibits proffered by plaintiff in opposition to
defendants’ motion for summary judgment are OVERRULED.
 
Summary Judgement
A motion for summary judgement must
be granted if there is no triable issue of material fact as to each cause of
action and the complaint has no merit. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(a), (c); Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843. A defendant meets his
burden of showing a cause of action has no merit if one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established, or there is a complete defense to that
cause of action. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2). 
 
To meet this burden, “defendant
must show that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence, because
otherwise the plaintiff might be able to establish the elements of the cause of
action; the defendant must also show that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence, because the plaintiff must be allowed a reasonable
opportunity to oppose the motion.” Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
865. “In the
alternative, he may simply point out … the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, evidence that would allow such a trier of fact to
find any underlying material fact more likely than not.” Id. at 847. 
 
Once defendants meet their initial
burden, it turns to plaintiff “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” Code
Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2). Plaintiff must show by admissible evidence specific
facts that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action. Id.
 
A.   
Addition
of Judgement Debtors
A triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether defendants function as alter-egos for original judgement
debtors. The law allows for amending a judgment to add a judgment debtor
pursuant to §187 by either motion or an independent action alleging that the
proposed judgment debtor was an alter ego of an original judgment debtor. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Weinberg (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1, 7. To prevail,
judgment creditor must show by a preponderance of the evidence that “(1) the
parties to be added as judgment debtors had control of the underlying
litigation and were virtually represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such
a unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the entity
and the owners no longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if
the acts are treated as those of the entity alone.” Relentless Air Racing,
LLC v. Airborne Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 811,
815–816.
 
Defendants argue plaintiff cannot establish
two of the necessary elements of the first cause of action. Defendants assert they
had no control over or involvement in the original lawsuit that resulted in the
original judgement that plaintiff now seeks to add them to. Def. UMF 20. Defendants
also argue there is no unity of interest between themselves and the original judgement
debtors, arguing they did not control or manage original judgement debtors, nor
did the original judgement debtors manage or control defendant entity. Def. UMF
35-38;45-47. Defendants and original judgement debtors did not comingle or
share assets. Def. UMF 51. 
 
Defendants rely on a narrow analysis
of what evidence can support a finding of alter-ego status, and subsequently
support the addition of a judgement debtor. “The alter ego test encompasses a
host of factors [identifying many common factors]. This long list of factors is
not exhaustive… No single factor is determinative, and instead a court must
examine all the circumstances to determine whether to apply the doctrine.
[Citation.] Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010)185 Cal.App.4th 799, 811. Plaintiff
offered facts that the father of defendant individuals, Noval Sr., himself an
original judgement debtor, exercised control over the underlying litigation and
the alleged alter-ego entity. Plaint. UMF 13. Plaintiff offered facts that defendants
worked closely alongside the original judgement debtors, with one defendant’s
principal place of business being listed as Noval Sr.’s residence. Plaint. UMF
25. 
 
Defendants argue whether Noval Sr.
exercised control over the original judgement debtor entity is immaterial. Plaintiff
argues that as Noval Sr. exercised a degree of control over the original
judgement debtor entity, he subsequently exercised a degree of control over the
underlying litigation. If Noval Sr. exercised and benefited from control over
the original judgement debtor entity, and if defendants functioned as
alter-egos and proxies, then a reasonable argument can be made that plaintiff raised
a question of material fact as to whether defendants are alter-egos of original
judgement debtors. DENIED.
 
B.    
Fraudulent
Transfer
A triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether fraudulent transfer occurred; the parties offer competing arguments
as to the origin of the funds used to purchase the Euclid property, and both
offer admissible evidence. Defendants assert plaintiff cannot show the
necessary element of a creditor-debtor relationship; as the court found, this
is a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Defendants offer facts that the
Euclid property was purchased with funds obtained as part of a loan from
third-party lender Koronus. Def. UMF 84. Plaintiff offers evidence that Noval
Jr. testified defendants received funds for the Euclid property in exchange for
a 50% stake in the property at issue in the original judgement, which is
subject to plaintiff’s lien. PAOE Exh. 12 – January 1, 2015 Equity
Participation Note; PAOE Exh. 5 - Noval Jr. Depo at 262, 316, 319, 342-343. In
reply, defendants provided evidence that the Euclid funding did not originate
from a stake in the property in the original judgement, and further the
provider of the funds that plaintiff cites to did not in fact provide the
funds. Def. UMF 58-61. There is a question of material fact as to this issue. Therefore,
summary judgement is inappropriate. DENIED.