  Case Number:  21STCV43439    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ALBERT COHEN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF BEVERLY HILLS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV43439  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  January 10, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Albert Cohen (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant City of Beverly Hills (“City”) and Does 1-20 for injuries arising from an alleged pothole/gap in the road. Plaintiff alleges he was riding his bicycle down Coldwater Canyon Drive when his bicycle ran into a pothole/gap in the road, causing him to crash his bicycle and sustain injuries on August 21, 2020. (FAC at ¶ 9.) Plaintiff sets forth a single cause of action for dangerous condition of public property (Gov. Code § 835). The City now moves for summary judgment.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, and the City filed a reply.   Moving Argument  The City argues it is entitled to summary judgment because no dangerous condition of public property existed, and even if it did, the City had no notice of the dangerous condition. The City there is no evidence of how long the divot-like condition, referred to as a spalling, measured by Plaintiff as 1.3 –1.5 inches in depth, 1.5 inches to 2.0 inches in width, and 16 inches in length existed on the southbound lane of Coldwater Canyon Drive. The City contends Plaintiff cycled past the incident location many times without noticing the condition, and the City has had no prior complaints or any prior bicycle accidents involving this section of the road.   Opposing Argument Plaintiff argues the City’s primary argument that it had no constructive notice of the dangerous condition fails, because a Google Maps photograph taken in January 2018 shows the existence of the defect, Plaintiff’s expert determined that the defect existed for at least two years prior to the date of the accident, and the City did not inspect the subject road for more than four years.  Reply Argument The City contends Plaintiff’s expert provides legal conclusions and improperly cites to various State Highway Design Manual publications in terms of standard of care, and that no expert is required to determine whether the alleged condition was dangerous.  II. Evidentiary Objections The City submits 15 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Shakir Shatnawi (“Shatnawi”). The objections are to portions not material to the disposition of the motion. The Court therefore declines to rule on the objections.   III. Motion for Summary Judgment Burdens on Summary Judgment Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option, he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66.)  [A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)  Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)   (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.)  Until the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)  Whether a Dangerous Condition Existed A “dangerous condition” is a condition of property that creates a substantial risk of injury when such property is used with due care in a manner which is reasonably foreseeable.  Ordinarily, the existence of a dangerous condition is a question of fact.  However, it can be resolved as a question of law if reasonable minds can come but to one conclusion.  It is for the Court to determine whether, as a matter of law, a given defect is not dangerous because property owners should not become insurers against injuries arising from trivial defects.  (Davis v. City of Pasadena (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 701, 704.)   The Act defines a “ ‘[d]angerous condition’ ” as “a condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (§ 830.) Public property is in a dangerous condition within the meaning of section 835 if it “is physically damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to foreseeably endanger those using the property itself.” [Citation.] A condition is not dangerous “if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial, or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” (§ 830.2.)   (Cordova v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1105.)   In this case, it is undisputed that the alleged defect was located on the southbound lane of Coldwater Canyon Drive, at or about 1221 Coldwater Canyon Drive, and that Plaintiff was riding his bicycle within this lane. (UMF 2.) The City “acknowledge[s] that Coldwater Canyon’s roadway surface surely is not pristine” (Mot. 11:4-5), and for the purposes of the motion, the City agrees that the defect measured at 1.3 –1.5 inches in depth, 1.5 inches to 2.0 inches in width, and 16 inches in length. The City contends that had the condition been truly dangerous, then at some point, someone would have complained about it, and because no one ever complained and there were no prior accidents, the condition was therefore not dangerous. The City’s circular logic relying on a lack of prior incidents alone does not establish that there was no existence of a dangerous condition. The history of an alleged condition is but one factor, and the City fails to demonstrate no dangerous condition existed when the measurement of the defect was not trivial.  Based on the foregoing, the City fails to show that the subject sidewalk was not in a dangerous condition at the time of the accident.    Notice To hold a public entity liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition, a plaintiff must prove (1) that the property was a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, (2) that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, (3) that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and (4) that either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition or the public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition and sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.  (Gov. Code § 835.)  Consequently, a public entity is only liable for a dangerous condition of property if it either creates the condition or has actual or constructive notice of the condition.  (Gov Code §835(b).)  A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous condition if it had actual knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2(a).)  “To establish actual notice, ‘[t]here must be some evidence that the employees had knowledge of the particular dangerous condition in question’; ‘it is not enough to show that the [public entity's] employees had a general knowledge’ that the condition can sometimes occur. [Citation.]”  (Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519.) A public entity had constructive notice of a dangerous condition only if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b).)  On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes, but is not limited to evidence of whether the condition and its dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was reasonably adequate or whether the public entity maintained and operated an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.  (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b)(1)-(2).) “Whether the dangerous condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period of time are threshold elements to establish a claim of constructive notice.”  (Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 317.)  “Where the plaintiff fails to present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, his claim is deficient as a matter of law.”  (Ibid.)    In this case, the City presents no relevant evidence that it did not have constructive notice of the dangerous condition. The City avers Plaintiff did not notice the condition before, and that there have been no prior accidents or complaints related to the spalling. However, the City provides no evidence of any sidewalk inspection system in place. Consequently, the City fails to meet its moving burden of showing it did not have constructive notice of the subject defect. Moreover, even if the City’s evidence was sufficient to meet its burden, Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact as to the issue of notice of the alleged dangerous condition.   Plaintiff’s expert, civil engineer Shatnawi, inspected the spalling at issue on November 7, 2022, in which the dimension of this defect was measured at 1.3” to 1.5” in depth, 1.5” to 2.0” in width and 16” in length. (Shatnawi Decl. ¶ 16.) Shatnawi opined that the defect inspected in November 2022 was substantially in the same condition as the photograph of the accident in August 2020 (Id. at ¶ 19), and similarly the defect was substantially in the same condition in January 2018 based on his review of historic photographs from Google Maps of the location (Id. at ¶ 21.) Based on the foregoing, there is an issue of material fact regarding the period of time the spalling at issue existed, and whether a reasonably adequate inspection system would have discovered the condition.  The City does not dispute that it is responsible for maintaining this portion of Coldwater Canyon Drive. Because there are no bike lanes on Coldwater Canyon Drive (UMF 3.), it is therefore foreseeable that bicyclists will ride on the road shared by motor vehicles. If the City failed to keep the street in a reasonably safe condition and use due care in eliminating the 1.3” to 1.5” in depth, 1.5” to 2.0” in width and 16” in length spalling, the City’s act or omission can be determined to be a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries.  (See Padilla v. Rodas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 742, 752 [“To establish the element of actual causation, it must be shown that the defendant's act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury.”]; see also Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1104.)  In making every reasonable inference in Plaintiff’s favor, this is sufficient evidence to show the spalling created a reasonably foreseeable risk that a bicyclist using the road would lose control of their bicycle when encountering this defect. The City, thus, fails to establish that it is entitled to summary judgment on the grounds that there is no evidence that it lacked constructive notice of the condition, and that the City did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries. (Aguilar, 25 Cal.4th at 854 [noting that a defendant seeking summary judgment “must show that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence . . . the defendant must also show that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence . . .”].)    IV. Conclusion  The City’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 9th day of January 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   