 Case Number:  23STCV18741    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV18741




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Yeonei Baik  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Avetik Aghekyan 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On August 8, 2023, Plaintiff Yeonei
Baik (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Avetik Aghekyan and
Does 1 to 25 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
            Plaintiff
now moves to compel Defendant Avetik Aghekyan’s (“Defendant”) deposition and
the corresponding request for production. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Mario E. Martinez does not show that the parties
met and conferred following the January 2024 deposition date or discussed the
facts surrounding Defendant’s disappearance. Therefore, the meet and confer
requirement is not satisfied. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s deposition, set for
November 30, 2023. (Martinez Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff requested
alternative dates within five days if the date did not work for Defendant. On
November 21, 2023, Defendant served an objection based on the fact the date was
unilaterally set and provided alternative dates on December 1, 2023. (Id.
¶ 5–7, Exh. 2.) That day, Plaintiff re-noticed the deposition for January 9,
2024—one of the dates provided by Defendant. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. 5.) On
January 4, 2024, Defendant served an objection, stating that Defendant’s
counsel had lost contact with Defendant and was thus unavailable. (Id. ¶
10–12, Exh. 6.)
 
In opposition, Defendant’s counsel contends that an investigator has
been retained to locate Defendant. Once Defendant is located, Defendant agrees
to complete the deposition within the next 120 days. Defendant’s counsel also
argues Defendant does not speak or read English, and efforts are being made to
communicate to Defendant his discovery obligations. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed to set forth the
steps taken to locate Defendant.
 
Based on the above, it is unclear when Defendant lost contact with his
counsel or if they have ever established contact. Defendant’s answer was filed
on November 20, 2023. The objection served on January 4, 2024 does not object
to an “error or irregularity” with the notice under section 2025.410. Defendant also does not provide
sufficient information about the effort to locate Defendant and when exactly
counsel lost contact. Therefore, because Defendant failed to proceed
with the January 9, 2024 deposition without a valid objection, the motion to
compel is granted.  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff did not satisfy the meet and confer
requirement and therefore declines to award sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s deposition is GRANTED. Defendant shall appear for
deposition within 60 days.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 