 Case Number:  22STCV25463    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25463




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Xiomara Palacios 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on April 24, 2024 by Petitioner iomara Palacios (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Madigan Amaya, age 16.
The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(6) stating
the reasons for the apportionment between the other plaintiffs. 
 
The amount in 12a(3) must be the reduction amount, and
not the net amount after reduction. Based on the other values, it appears this
amount should be $4,870. 
 
In 12b(5), Petitioner must indicate the amount already paid
(if any) to each of the three medical providers. 
 
Petitioner requests $6,250 in attorney fees. This amount
represents 25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount to be
reasonable. 
 
It appears counsel is representing other parties in this
action. The response in 17e must be changed and the applicable attachment
provided. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), Petitioner must include
the gross amount in item 6. Item 8a(2) indicates that Petitioner’s attorney
will be reimbursed for medical expenses. However, this conflicts with item
12b(5) in the petition which shows that there are liens to three providers.
Petitioner did not provide proof that she or her attorney paid for the medical
expenses. If not, then the providers should be paid directly by completing item
8a(3) in the proposed order. 
 
Also in the proposed order, Petitioner must complete item
9a.
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 