 Case Number:  21STCV13360    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV13360




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Terminating Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Ruben Salvador Espinoza and
  Javier Espinoza Diaz  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants
Ruben Salvador Espinoza and Javier Espinoza Diaz (“Defendants”)
move for terminating sanctions against Plaintiffs Alexander Ramirez and Esmeralda Espinoza (“Plaintiffs”)
for failure to comply with the Court’s February 5th and 6th,
2024 discovery orders. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390,
quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen (1997)
16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the plaintiff
for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various
discovery statutes].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Discovery
was originally served on Plaintiffs on June 8, 2023. (Jozana Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendants
granted an extension to respond without objections by August 25, 2023. (Id.
¶ 3.) On February 5, 2024 and February 6, 2024, the Court granted
Defendants’
unopposed motions to compel Plaintiffs’ responses to Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Form and Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiffs were
ordered to provide verified responses, without objections, within 30 days.
(Min. Order, 2/5/24, 2/6/24.) The Court also imposed monetary sanctions against
Plaintiffs and their counsel of record. 
 
Defendants
contend they have received no responses to the discovery nor payment of the
monetary sanctions. 
 
However,
the February minute orders indicate that Plaintiffs did not appear at the
hearing. Neither the Court record nor the declaration in support of the instant
motion show that Defendants served notice of the orders on Plaintiffs. 
 
The
Court also notes that Plaintiffs’ counsel filed motions to be relieved on April
19, 2024, based on a breakdown in communication. 
 
Therefore,
because Defendants have not provided proof that notice of the orders were
served on Plaintiffs, the Court cannot determine that Plaintiffs’ failure to
comply was willful. In addition, this motion was served on counsel for
plaintiffs. As a result, the motion for terminating sanctions is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore,
Defendants’ motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 