 Case Number:  23STCV10975    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV10975




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Maria Vela-Zuniga



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”)
moves to compel further responses from Plaintiff Maria Vela-Zuniga (“Plaintiff”)
to Special Interrogatories, Set Two. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny any motion if parties fail to schedule
and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. When this motion was filed,
no IDC had been scheduled or had taken place. Also, the motion was not
accompanied by a separate statement, (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1345(c)), and should have
described further efforts to meet and confer prior to filing the motion.
 
The
Court therefore denies the motion as procedurally defective. Accordingly, the
Court also denies Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motion to compel further discovery
responses and denies the requests for sanctions. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.