 Case Number:  22STCV11067    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV11067




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Sheryl Tan




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court
has reviewed the petition filed on April 18, 2024 by Petitioner Sheryl Tan
(Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Imogen Tan-Ching, age 10. The Court denies the petition without
prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner asserts Claimant is fully
recovered after receiving a consultation for exposure to asbestos. Petitioner,
Claimant’s parent, filed a declaration in attachment 8, declaring under penalty
of perjury that Claimant attended an appointment with Dr. Miriam Chan on
October 6, 2021 regarding the asbestos exposure. (Tan Decl. ¶ 3.) Petitioner
was advised that no tests or treatment could be completed for the asbestos
exposure. (Id. ¶ 4.) Petitioner declares the following: “Since
that date, Imogen has had no symptoms of any medical conditions that could be
attributed to asbestos exposure or as a result of any of the habitability
issues we experienced during the time alleged in the Complaint.” (Id. ¶
5.) The Court finds this is sufficient evidence of Claimant’s current
condition. 
 
Item 12a(1) should reflect $130 and
12a(5) should reflect $112.40.  Petitioner
did not complete item 12b(2)(f), indicating if private insurance is seeking
reimbursement. This also conflicts with the value in 12b(5)(a)(ii) which
indicates there is a lien owed to a medical provider. Based on the email in
attachment 8, it appears this amount was already paid to the provider by an
insurance plan. If so, then Petitioner should only complete 12b(2) if the
private insurance is seeking reimbursement (and not seek reimbursement directly
to Meritain Health). Petitioner must address this issue in an attachment in a
future petition. 
 
Petitioner requests $1,250 in attorney
fees which represents 25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount
to be reasonable. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the
petition without prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give
notice and file a proof of service of such.