 Case Number:  23STCV08337    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  49 5110 Washington, LLC, et al. v. Scottsdale Insurance Company, et al.(1) DEMURRER TO AMENDED COMPLAINT(2) MOTION TO STRIKE  MOVING PARTY: Defendant Scottsdale Insurance CompanyRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs 5110 Washington, LLC and Harma HartouniSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff 5110 Washington, LLC, owned and operated an apartment building at 5110-5120 W. Washington Blvd, Los Angeles, CA. Plaintiff Harma Hartouni is the sole member of Plaintiff 5110. Plaintiffs allege they obtained an insurance policy on the property through Defendant Scottsdale Insurance Company. Defendant B&B Premier Insurance Solutions, Inc., and its manager, Defendant David Kern, obtained the policy for Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege they informed Defendants that 5110 needed insurance including liability from claims and risks inherent in owning an apartment business renting to tenants. In January 2021, a tenant sued 5110 for bodily injury and property damage, among other things. Despite timely tendering a defense and indemnity under the policy, Defendant Scottsdale denied coverage. Plaintiffs allege they were therefore forced to settle the action. In the First Amended Complaint, [FN 1]  Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) breach of liability insurance contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) insurance malpractice, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, and (5) breach of statutory duties.Defendant Scottsdale Insurance Company now demurrers to the First Amended Complaint and moves to strike portions therein.  Plaintiffs opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is MOOT.Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOT.Moving party is ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendant’s Request, the court takes judicial notice of Defendant’s Exhibits 1 and 2.Pursuant to Plaintiffs’ request, the court takes judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1, 2, and 3. II. Meet and Confer The Declaration of Attorney Michelle R. Bernard reflects that the meet and confer requirement was met. (CCP § 430.41.)III. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)IV. AnalysisA. First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract; Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant of Good FaithDefendant Scottsdale Insurance Company again demurrers to Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action for breach of contract and Second Cause of Action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to these causes of action in the Complaint with leave to amend. (See 04/10/2024 Ruling.) In so ruling, the court reasoned that the underlying Munoz action fell within the “conspicuous, plain and clear” Habitability Exclusion of the underlying policy. (See id., p. 5.) Therefore, the “court conclude[d] that Defendant properly denied coverage,” and thus the First and Second Causes of Action failed. (Id.)The court gave Plaintiffs limited leave to amend, noting that in some cases, “extrinsic facts known to the insurer may either give rise to a duty to defend or show conclusively there is no possibility a claim is covered by the policy…There may also be a duty to defend if ‘under the facts alleged, reasonably inferable, or otherwise known, the complaint could fairly be amended to state a covered liability.’” (Id., citing 24th & Hoffman Invs., LLC v. Northfield Ins. Co. (2022) 82 Cal. App. 5th 825, 834.)Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint on May 9, 2024. The new allegations largely go to Plaintiffs’ interpretation of the Policy/Exclusion and whether it should have covered the Munoz action. But these are legal conclusions or argument, which the court considered when ruling on the last demurrer. They are not “extrinsic facts known to the insurer” that may give rise to a duty to defend, which was, after all, the limited scope of leave granted Plaintiffs.Plaintiffs now argue that the Court of Appeal’s decision in 24th & Hoffman Invs., supra, 82 Cal. App. 5th—which this court primarily relied on in its ruling on the last Demurrer—was wrongly decided. (Opp. 16: 6.) However, all trial courts are bound by all published decisions of the Court of Appeal. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 455 [“Courts exercising inferior jurisdiction must accept the law declared by courts of superior jurisdiction. It is not their function to attempt to overrule decisions of the higher court.”].)Plaintiffs also argue the California Supreme Court’s recent decision in John's Grill, Inc. v. Hartford Fin. Servs. Grp., Inc. (2024) 16 Cal. 5th 1003, limits the reasoning of 24th & Hoffman. John’s Grill did not address 24th & Hoffman, and there is no apparent conflict between the two cases. John’s Grill addressed whether losses incurred by a restaurant during the Covid-19 pandemic fell within the restaurant’s insurance policy’s “Limited Fungi, Bacteria or Virus Coverage” endorsement. (John's Grill, Inc., supra, 16 Cal. 5th 1003, 552 P.3d 1045, 1048.) The issue was whether, as the restaurant argued, the virus limitation was unenforceable because it otherwise rendered the policy’s promise of virus-related coverage “illusory.” (Id.) The Court rejected that argument, concluding that the plain meaning of the policy did not render virus coverage illusory. (Id. at 1059.) Thus, while John’s Grill is instructive on the interpretation of insurance contracts, it does not change the result in this case. The court therefore concludes again that Plaintiffs have failed to state causes of action for breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant against Defendant Scottsdale. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. B. Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq.Defendant also demurrers to the Fifth Cause of Action for violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. This was a new cause of action added to the FAC that exceeds the scope of leave given to Plaintiffs when this court sustained the last demurrer to the Complaint.Be that as it may, on August 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a “Notice of Dismissal” seeking to dismiss the claim without prejudice. The demurrer to this cause of action is therefore MOOT. If Plaintiffs wish to add this cause of action at a later date, they must file a noticed motion for leave to amend to do so.Motion to StrikeI. Legal StandardA motion to strike lies either (1) to strike any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)II. AnalysisDefendant moves to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint. Because Defendant’s Demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED in its entirety and Defendant is not named in any remaining causes of action, its Motion to Strike is MOOT.Moving party is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 20, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 -The pleading is titled “Amended Complaint.” The court will refer to that pleading as the First Amended Complaint or “FAC.” 