 Case Number:  23STCV08079    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




IMMIGRANT RIGHTS DEFENSE
  COUNCIL, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EDMUND ROBERT SORACCO,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV08079




Hearing Date:


June 10, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 




            
Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC (“Plaintiff”) requests
entry of default judgment against Defendants Edmund Robert Soracco and Americas
Legal Immigration Foundation (jointly, “Defendants”). Plaintiff seeks judgment
in the total amount of $29,360.58, comprising $1,085.58 in costs and $28,275.00
in attorney’s fees. Plaintiff also seeks a judgment that “Defendants are
permanently enjoined from engaging in the business of an immigration consultant,
as that business is defined by the Immigration Consultants Act (the ‘ICA’),
which is codified at Business and Professions Code
Sections 22440, et seq.” 
The Court notes a few defects with the submitted default judgment
package.
First, Plaintiff submitted a specially
prepared proposed judgment and did not use Form JUD-100. The Court will require
the use of Form JUD-100 because this does not appear to be a case where a
lengthy or detailed judgment is necessary. (See LASC Rule 3.213(b).)
Second, as set forth above,
Plaintiff seeks a judgment that “Defendants are permanently enjoined from
engaging in the business of an immigration consultant, as that business is
defined by the Immigration Consultants Act (the ‘ICA’), which is codified at Business and Professions Code Sections 22440, et seq.”
In support of this request for relief, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration cites
to Business and Professions Code section 22446.5,
subdivision (b), which provides that “[a]ny other
party who, upon information and belief, claims a violation of this chapter has
been committed by an immigration consultant may bring a civil action for
injunctive relief on behalf of the general public and, upon prevailing, shall
recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.” However, Plaintiff does not
appear to provide any further legal authority specifically supporting its
request for an injunction prohibiting Defendants from engaging in the business
of an immigration consultant. 
Third, it appears Plaintiff
submits evidence of one of the alleged violations. Specifically, Plaintiff’s
counsel states in his supporting declaration that “[a]ttached as Exhibit 1 are
true and correct copies of image captures of various online advertising from
Defendant’s advertisements for immigration services. Notably, the
advertisements do not contain a clear and conspicuous statement that Defendants
are not attorneys in violation of Business and
Professions Code section 22442.2(c)(1).” (Medvei Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. 1.) 
However, it appears that as
to the remaining violations, Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that “[i]n
defaulting, Defendant has admitted each of the allegations in the complaint…”
(See Medvei Decl., ¶ 11.) The Court notes that in Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 287, the Court of Appeal noted that if the
relief requested in the complaint consists of  “either nonmonetary relief, or monetary relief
in amounts which require either an accounting, additional evidence, or the
exercise of judgment to ascertain (such as emotional distress damages, pain and
suffering, or punitive damages), the plaintiff must request entry of judgment
by the court…In such cases, the plaintiff must affirmatively establish his
entitlement to the specific judgment requested. The court shall hear the
evidence offered by the plaintiff, and shall render judgment in the plaintiff’s
favor for that relief, not exceeding the amount stated in the complaint, in the
statement required by Section 425.11, or in the
statement provided for by Section 425.115, as appears by the evidence to be just.” (Internal
quotations omitted, emphasis in original.) Here, Plaintiff seeks, inter alia,
nonmonetary relief. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff must affirmatively
establish its entitlement to the specific judgment requested. 
The Kim Court further
noted that “while Code of Civil Procedure
section 585 does give the court discretion to ‘permit the use of
affidavits, in lieu of personal testimony, as to all or any part of the
evidence or proof required or permitted to be offered, received, or heard in
those cases,’ it specifically requires that ‘[t]he facts stated in the
affidavit or affidavits shall be within the personal knowledge of the affiant
and shall be set forth with particularity, and each
affidavit shall show affirmatively that the affiant, if sworn as a witness, can
testify competently thereto.” (Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc., supra, 201 Cal.App.4th at
page 287, emphasis in original.) 

Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
default judgment without prejudice. The Court will discuss with Plaintiff a
schedule for resubmission of the default judgment package.
 
DATED:  June 10, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court