 Case Number:  23TRCV04128    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    October 21, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV04128
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Amy Dolores Chavez
v. Merrill Gardens at Rolling Hills, L.P., et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff, Amy Dolores Chavez 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Merrill Gardens at Rolling Hills, L.P. (No Opposition) 
 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set.  
¿¿                                                                               
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Trial Preference 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED.  Counsel should come to the hearing with
calendars at the ready for a trial and FSC settings in late January or early to
mid-February 2025.  The Court will
encourage counsel to consider negotiating a case management stipulation and
order to shorten usual discovery (i.e., less than 30 days to respond) and other
deadlines to accommodate the expedited trial setting and to facilitate ADR
before the FSC
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿  
 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff, Amy Dolores Chavez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant, Merrill Gardens at Rolling
Hills, L.P., a Limited Partnership, Lauren Amaya, an individual, and DOES 1
through 30. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) General Negligence;
and (2) Premises Liability. The complaint is based on the allegations that
Defendants negligently filed to provide plaintiff with assistance in boarding a
shuttle bus, thereby causing Plaintiff to fall from the shuttle bus steps onto
the ground. 
 
Now, Plaintiff has filed a Motion for Order Granting
Preferential Trial Setting. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿  
On September
24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Trial Preference. On October 15, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Notice of Non-Opposition. 
   
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard  
 
A party who is over 70 years old may
petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court
makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a substantial interest
in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)  An affidavit
submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of
Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based
upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any
party.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)  
 
The court has discretion to grant a
motion for trial preference accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation concluding that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months and satisfying the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting the preference.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).) 
 
“Upon the granting of such a motion for
preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the
granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party
or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the
record.”  (Id., § 36, subd. (f).)  “Any continuance shall be
for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.”  (Id.)  
 
As a preliminary matter, section 36,
subdivision (c) requires the moving party to serve a declaration stating all
essential parties have been served with process or have appeared. Counsel for
Plaintiff, Clarissa Rojas filed a declaration (“Rojas Decl.”) which includes a
proof of service, verifying that on September 24, 2024, she served counsel for
Defendant with the declaration of Eddie B. Dennis in support of Plaintiff’s
Motion for Trial Preference. Further, a proof of service has been attached to
the Motion for Trial Preference itself noting that on that same day, September
24, 2024, Plaintiff’s notice of motion and motion for trial preference and
trial setting and memorandum of points and authorities had been served on
counsel for Defendants. The moving papers also indicate that Defendants have
appeared in the action. (Motion at 9.)
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff, Amy
Dolores Chavez is alleged to be 86 years old. The Rojas declaration in support
of this motion states that on December 14, 2022, Plaintiff was injured while
left unsupervised to ascend the steps of a transportation shuttle at Defendant’s
assisted living facility. (Rojas Decl., ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff asserts that when she attempted to
climb the steps without the requisite supervision and assistance, she fell and
lacerated both legs resulting in hospitalization for more than a month. (Rojas
Decl., ¶ 3.) As a result of the incident, Plaintiff contends that she suffered
severe lacerations to her legs, a subsequent infection, and required surgical
procedures. (Declaration of Amy Dolores Chavez (“Chavez Decl.”), ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff further states that she remained hospitalized until February 24,
2023. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 4.) To date, Chavez asserts that she has not recovered
from her injuries and continues to experience significant nerve pain in her
feet to which she is currently receiving treatment. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff further
contends that on August 26, 2024, she underwent a nerve conduction study and
needle test which she was informed revealed abnormal results. (Chavez Decl., ¶
6.) Plaintiff asserts that she is currently undergoing medical evaluations by a
neurologist, podiatrist, and vascular specialist to treat this ongoing problem
and to determine her prognosis. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 6.) In addition to the injuries,
she sustained as a result of her fall, Plaintiff also notes that she has also
been diagnosed with several illnesses and diseases that have impacted her
well-being and continue to slow her down as time progresses. (Chavez Decl., ¶
7.) Plaintiff states that prior to the subject incident, she has been diagnosed
with the following conditions: (1) congestive heart failure; (2) coronary
artery disease; (3) hypertension; (4) hypoglycemia; and (5) cyanotic episodes
in the soles of both feet. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
            Plaintiff
highlights the fact that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in this action,
as she remains the sole Plaintiff in this action and asserts that she has
suffered injuries as a result of the incident. The court agrees and finds that
Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. Further, the
evidence provided in both the Declaration of Eddie B. Dennis, Esq. and the Declaration
of Amy Dolores Chaves establish that her health and age are such that
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.
Given Plaintiff’s age and health, her conditions are likely to continue to
decline. Thus, this Court finds good cause to GRANT this motion.  
 
Plaintiff’s moving
papers include a declaration of Clarissa Rojas indicating that Plaintiff’s
Notice of Motion and Motion for Preference and Trial Setting and Memorandum of
Points & Authority have been served on attorneys for Defendants in
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (c). Thus, the motion
is GRANTED.
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the
foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is GRANTED.  
 
The Court will issue a scheduling
order and thereby give written notice of its ruling and of the trial, FSC, and ADR
status dates.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
 