 Case Number:  23CHCV00169    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-15-24
Case #23CHCV00169,
Jacqueline Chavez vs. Edward Kee Chang
Trial Date: 11-25-2024
 
MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO SUBMIT TO PHYSICAL EXAM
WITH NEUROLOGIST
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Edward Kee Chang and Balance Therapy & Acupuncture, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Jacqueline Chavez
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
An order
compelling Plaintiff to submit to a second physical examination with a
neurologist.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On February 17,
2022, Plaintiff Jacqueline Chavez (Plaintiff) was in a motor vehicle accident.
Since the accident. Plaintiff has complained of ongoing neurological issues,
including headaches and memory loss, as well as dysfunction from the cranial
nerve and neck pain. Defendants Edward Kee Chang and Balance Therapy &
Acupuncture, Inc. (Defendants) have already had an orthopedic doctor examine
Plaintiff for Plaintiff’s orthopedic complaints; now Defendants are requesting
that Plaintiff be examined by a neurologist for Plaintiff’s neurological
complaints. 
 
Defendants
filed their motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to the physical exam on June
11, 2024. Defendants argue in their motion that there is good cause for the
Court to order a physical exam with a neurologist. They also maintain that they
have satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
Plaintiff
argues in her opposition that Defendants have not established good cause. Next,
Plaintiff argues that the conditions sought be Defendants for the examination
are oppressive and overbroad with respect to the timeframe. Plaintiff also
argues that videotaping is not permitted, though Defendants’ motion makes no
mention of videotaping. Finally, Plaintiff argues that Defendants should have
served a separate statement.
 
Defendants
argue in their reply that they have established good cause for the requested
physical exam. Next, they argue that the time objections lacks merit because
the exam should take no longer than 2 hours. They also point out that videotaping
is not requested. Finally, Defendants argue that a separate statement is not
required in this situation. 
 
ANALYSIS
CCP § 2032.220
allows a party to obtain discovery by means of a physical examination when the
other party’s physical condition is in controversy and permits a defendant to
demand one physical examination by right.
 
In this case,
Defendants used their one physical examination by right to have Plaintiff
examined by an orthopedic doctor.
 
If a party
seeks more than one physical examination, leave of court is required. (CCP §
2032.310(a).) A motion for examination under this section “shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will
perform the examination. (CCP § 2032.310(b).) “The court shall grant a motion
for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown.” (CCP § 2032.320(a).) Generally, to find “good cause”, the court
requires a showing of both (1) relevancy to the subject matter of the
litigation, and (2) specific facts justifying the discovery, e.g., allegations
showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining the
information elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
840)
 
Multiple
examinations are permitted on a showing of good cause. (Shapira v. Superior
Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) “Where Plaintiffs injuries are
complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields.
There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered
on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks a potential
harassment of Plaintiff.” (Id.)
 
Here,
Defendants seek an examination with a neurologist because of Plaintiff’s
continuing claims of neurological injury including headaches, memory loss, and
trigeminal neuropathy – and also of nausea, photophobia, and left side
blurriness, of bilateral tingling associated with neck pain, and facial pain
caused by nerve compression, for which Plaintiff herself has sought treatment with
a neurologist. Additionally, records produced by Plaintiff indicated that it
was recommended that she should have ongoing neurological treatment.
 
Based on the
foregoing, it appears that there is good cause for Plaintiff to be examined by
a neurologist.
 
As for
Plaintiff’s argument that the conditions sought for the examination are
oppressive because the notice of examination states that the exam should
continue “so long as reasonably required,” Defendants state in their reply that
the neurologist told them that the examination should not last more than two
hours. This is a reasonable amount of time.
 
Next, Plaintiff
argues that the examination cannot be videotaped. However, Defendants point out
in their reply that they are not requesting that the examination be videotaped,
so it is unclear why Plaintiff made this argument. 
 
Finally, though
Plaintiff argues that Defendants needed to file a separate statement, no
separate statement was needed in this case because no response was provided to
the request for discovery. (See Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(b)(1).) In this
case, no request for discovery was ever served. Defendants filed this motion
because they were required to file it after already using their first request
for examination that was available as a matter of right. Any requests for
examination beyond the first one required this motion.
 
Defendants’
motion to compel physical examination is granted.
 
ORDER
1.      Defendants’
motion to compel physical examination is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to
comply with Defendants’ notice of examination and appear for examination on
August 23, 2024, at 12:30 p.m. at 2190 Lynn Road, Suite 380, Thousand Oaks, CA
91360. The examination should last no more than 2 hours.
2.      Moving
party to give notice.