 Case Number:  PC058369    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-15-24
Case # PC058369,
Erik L. Lassman vs. Dorene Robinson
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff DeWelt, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Road Runner
Wyoming is seeking leave to intervene as a defendant and cross-complainant in
this action.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This action
arises from competing ownership claims to the property located at 30141
Lexington Dr., Val Verde, CA. Plaintiff Erik Lassman and Jim V. Robinson owned
the property as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. In April 2011, Erik
Lassman, as CEO and owner of Dewelt, LLC, transferred the entire joint tenancy
interest to DeWelt, LLC (DeWelt). On May 23, 2011, Jim V. Robinson transferred
his joint interest to Defendant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC, a Nevada
Corporation. Road Runner Nevada’s corporate status has been permanently
revoked.
 
Road Runner
Land & Homes, LLC, a Wyoming LLC, filed a cross-complaint against DeWelt on
October 17, 2023. The cross-complaint alleges two causes of action for
cancellation of instrument and conversion. On November 4, 2021, this Court
entered an Order After Judgment which directed Road Runner to convey the
subject property to DeWelt. On February 9, 2022, Road Runner conveyed the
property to DeWelt, which then conveyed the property to a McConnell on the very
same day for just $10,000, which Road Runner alleges was well below market
value. The Court of Appeal later reversed the default judgment as to Road
Runner. This also reversed the Order After Judgment for the conveyance to
DeWelt. Road Runner Wyoming filed its cross-complaint in order to resolve any
clouds on title and to be reimbursed for personal property that it alleges was
converted after the property was conveyed to DeWelt.
 
On May 21,
2024, this Court ruled that Road Runner Wyoming has not properly intervened in
this action, despite the grant deed from Road Runner Nevada to Road Runner
Wyoming which conveyed the property to Road Runner Wyoming. The Court ruled
that Road Runner Wyoming had not properly intervened because the relevant code
section, CCP § 387, is not self-executing and requires a party to intervene
upon noticed motion. The Court stayed Road Runner Wyoming’s answer and
cross-complaint pending any motion for leave to intervene and indicated that if
the motion is granted, the answer and cross-complaint will be deemed to have
been filed at the same time.
 
Road Runner
Wyoming argues in its motion to intervene filed on June 14, 2024, that the
motion is timely. It also argues that it was a legal right to intervene in this
quiet title action under the mandatory intervention provisions of CCP §
387(d)(1). Next, it argues that it is also has a legal right to intervene under
the permissive intervention provisions of CCP § 387(d)(2). Finally, it argues
that the Court should allow its answer and cross-complaint to become operative
in this quiet title action upon the granting of this motion.
 
DeWelt argues
in its opposition that Road Runner Wyoming’s motion is untimely. Next, DeWelt
argues that Road Runner Wyoming needed to include a copies of the proposed
answer and cross-complaint with its motion. DeWelt also argues that
intervention cannot be allowed because a final judgment was previously issued.
Finally, it argues that Road Runner Nevada had no power to assign its interest
to Road Runner Wyoming.
 
Road Runner
Wyoming argues in its reply that it has a right to intervene under California
law. Next, it argues that DeWelt failed to indicate how it would suffer any
kind of prejudice. It also argues that DeWelt’s notice that Road Runner Wyoming
has no direct interest in the property is erroneous and inexplicable. Road
Runner Wyoming also argues that its motion is timely, that it has a right to
intervene, and that the legal status of Road Runner Nevada has no bearing on
its interest in the subject property. Finally, it argues that it had no duty to
include a copy of its answer or cross-complaint with its moving papers because
they are already on file with the Court.
 
DeWelt’s Request
for Judicial Notice: DeWelt has requested that the Court take judicial notice of
various deeds and documents from the Nevada Secretary of State website. Road
Runner Wyoming opposes DeWelt’s request on the basis that it failed to properly
designate the exhibit numbers of the attached documents, and it failed to
explain how judicial notice is appropriate, among other confusing designations
for the documents. Based on DeWelt’s failure to properly designate the
documents or explain how judicial notice is appropriate, the Court denies
DeWelt’s request for judicial notice.
 
ANALYSIS
An intervention is when a third party is
permitted to become a party to an action between other parties, either by
joining the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by
joining the defendant, or by demanding something adverse to both the plaintiff
and the defendant. (See CCP § 387(b).) The requirements for interventions are a
timely application and satisfaction of the condition that the party seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the transaction that is the subject
of the action and that the party is so situated that the disposition of the
action may impair that party’s ability to protect that interest, unless that
party’s interest is adequately represented. (CCP § 387(d)(1)(B).)
Alternatively, the Court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action if the party has an interest in the matter in
litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against
both. (CCP § 387(d)(2).)
 
First, it is necessary to resolve the
issue of timeliness. DeWelt argues in its opposition that the motion is
untimely because it was not brought for more than 3 years after the assignment
occurred even though the moving party was aware of the lawsuit. Road Runner
Wyoming lays out the timeline in its reply. First, the grant deed that conveyed
Road Runner Wyoming’s entire ownership interest to DeWelt was not executed
until December 1, 2021. Thereafter, the case was pending appeal and remitter
did not issue until April 20, 2023. Thereafter, on October 17, 2023, Road
Runner Wyoming filed its answer and cross-complaint. On May 21, 2024, the Court
ruled that Road Runner Wyoming needed to file a motion to intervene in order to
become a party to this case. Within a month, on June 14, 2024, Road Runner
Wyoming filed this motion for leave to intervene. 
 
Based on this timeline, Road Runner
Wyoming’s motion is timely, as it filed its motion for leave to intervene in
the case within a reasonable amount of time after the Court ruled that it must
file such a motion.
 
Road Runner Wyoming argues that it is
eligible to intervene under both the mandatory provisions of Section
387(d)(1)(B) and the permissive provisions of Section 387(d)(2).
 
Road Runner Wyoming argues that the
mandatory intervention provision applies because it has an “unconditional right
to intervene” pursuant to CCP § 762.050, which states that “Any person who has
a claim to the property described in the complaint may appear in the
proceeding. Whether or not the person is named as a defendant in the complaint,
the person shall appear as a defendant.” (See also Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. v. McGurk (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 201, 211 [“[a]ny person who has
a claim to the property may appear as a defendant, whether or not they are
named in the complaint”].) Road Runner Wyoming argues that because it has an
ownership interest in the property because Road Runner Nevada transferred its
interest to it, then it has a mandatory right of intervention. Furthermore, it
argues that its participation in this quiet title action is essential to
protect its interest because no other party named in the action will protect
its interest.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that Road Runner Wyoming has a mandatory right to intervene.
 
Next, Road Runner Wyoming argues that its
intervention is also permissive because it has a direct interest in the
property because of the ownership interest that it claims. The Court has
discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene in litigation pending between
others if (1) the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in the
litigation; (2) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case; and
(3) the reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition by the existing
parties. (See Truck Ins. Exch. V. Superior Ct. (Transco Syndicate #1)
(1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346; Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Ct. (Wells)
(2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.)
 
As already established, Road Runner
Wyoming has a direct and immediate interest in this action because of its claim
of ownership interest in the property. Next, Road Runner Wyoming’s intervention
will not enlarge the issues in this case because this is already a quiet title
action to determine ownership of the property. Finally, Road Runner Wyoming’s
interest in the property outweighs DeWelt’s opposition to Road Runner Wyoming’s
inclusion in the litigation.
 
Road Runner Wyoming also has a permissive
right to intervene.
 
DeWelt makes a few arguments in opposition
to Road Runner Wyoming’s motion. First, it makes the irrelevant argument that
Road Runner Nevada has no powers to carry on business in California so it could
not have assigned its interest to Road Runner Wyoming. The status of Road
Runner Nevada had no bearing on its power to convey the subject property to
Road Runner Wyoming. (See Cm Record Corp. v. McA Records (1985) 168
Cal.App.3d 965, 967 [“California law recognizes that the continuing legal
existence of a corporation depends on the law state of incorporation”]; see
also Fidelity Metals Corp. v. Risley (1946) 77 Cal.App.2d 377, 381 [it
is “settled law that the effect of the dissolution of a corporation, or its
expiration otherwise, depends upon the law of its domicile”].) Nevada law
appears to allow for the conveyance of property even after a limited liability
company’s charter has been revoked. (See NRS 86.505, subd. (1) [providing,
among other things, that a dissolved company “continues as a company” for the
purpose of “enabling it” to “dispose of and convey property”].) Accordingly,
the conveyance of the subject property from Road Runner Nevada to Road Runner
Wyoming was proper.
 
Next, Road Runner Wyoming is entitled to
maintain its cross-complaint as an intervenor under CCP § 762.050. Intervenors
may be accorded affirmative relief, including by way of a cross-complaint. (See
Belt Casualty Co. v. Furman (1933) 218 Cal. 359, 362.)
 
DeWelt also argues that all of the process
served by Road Runner Wyoming prior to this motion is improper because it was
not an official party to the action. Concurrently with this motion, the Court
is granting DeWelt and Erik Lassman’s motion to vacate all actions under the
cross-complaint. Accordingly, any prior service of the answer and
cross-complaint would be void. Road Runner Wyoming will need to serve the
answer and cross-complaint again once they are deemed filed as of the date of
this order.
 
Finally, DeWelt argues that Road Runner
Wyoming needed to include a copy of its answer and cross-complaint with this
motion. (See CCP § 387(c).) However, the answer and cross-complaint are already
on file with the Court. It was not necessary for Road Runner Wyoming to submit
additional copies of these pleadings.
 
Based on the foregoing, Road Runner
Wyoming’s motion for leave to intervene is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
Road Runner
Wyoming’s motion for leave to intervene is granted. Road Runner Wyoming’s
answer and cross-complaint filed on October 17, 2023, are deemed filed as of
the date of this order.
 
Moving party to
give notice.Dept. F43Date: 8-15-24Case # PC058369,
Erik L. Lassman vs. Dorene RobinsonTrial Date: N/A MOTION TO VACATE ALL ACTIONS MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendants
DeWelt, LLC, and Erik L. LassmanRESPONDING
PARTY: Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC RELIEF REQUESTEDCross-Defendants
are requesting that the Court enter an order to vacate all actions taken by
Road Runner Wyoming, including defaults RULING: Motion
is granted. SUMMARY OF
ACTIONThis action
arises from competing ownership claims to the property located at 30141
Lexington Dr., Val Verde, CA. Plaintiff Erik Lassman and Jim V. Robinson owned
the property as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. In April 2011, Erik
Lassman, as CEO and owner of Dewelt, LLC, transferred the entire joint tenancy
interest to DeWelt, LLC (DeWelt). On May 23, 2011, Jim V. Robinson transferred
his joint interest to Defendant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC, a Nevada
Corporation. Road Runner Nevada’s corporate status has been permanently
revoked. Road Runner
Land & Homes, LLC, a Wyoming LLC, filed a cross-complaint against DeWelt on
October 17, 2023. The cross-complaint alleges two causes of action for
cancellation of instrument and conversion. On November 4, 2021, this Court
entered an Order After Judgment which directed Road Runner to convey the
subject property to DeWelt. On February 9, 2022, Road Runner conveyed the
property to DeWelt, which then conveyed the property to a McConnell on the very
same day for just $10,000, which Road Runner alleges was well below market
value. The Court of Appeal later reversed the default judgment as to Road
Runner. This also reversed the Order After Judgment for the conveyance to
DeWelt. Road Runner Wyoming filed its cross-complaint in order to resolve any
clouds on title and to be reimbursed for personal property that it alleges was
converted after the property was conveyed to DeWelt. On May 21,
2024, this Court ruled that Road Runner Wyoming has not properly intervened in
this action, despite the grant deed from Road Runner Nevada to Road Runner
Wyoming which conveyed the property to Road Runner Wyoming. The Court ruled
that Road Runner Wyoming had not properly intervened because the relevant code
section, CCP § 387, is not self-executing and requires a party to intervene
upon noticed motion. The Court stayed Road Runner Wyoming’s answer and
cross-complaint pending any motion for leave to intervene and indicated that if
the motion is granted, the answer and cross-complaint will be deemed to have
been filed at the same time. Road Runner
Wyoming filed a motion for leave to intervene on June 14, 2024. The Court is
hearing that motion the same day as this motion and intends to grant the motion
to intervene.  On July 16,
2024, Cross-Defendants Erik L. Lassman and DeWelt, LLC (Cross-Defendants) filed
an ex parte application to vacate all actions taken by Road Runner Wyoming on
the cross-complaint, including the February 29, 2024, default entered against
Erik L. Lassman. On July 18, 2024, this Court denied the ex parte application
on the basis that Cross-Defendants had not shown sufficient reasons for the
motion to be granted ex parte. The Court ruled that the ex parte application
would be heard as a noticed motion and set the hearing for August 15, 2024. ANALYSISConcurrently with this motion, the Court
is granting Road Runner Wyoming’s motion to intervene and deeming its answer
and cross-complaint filed as of the date of the order on that motion.
Accordingly, any actions previously taken on the cross-complaint, including
defaults, are void, as Road Runner Wyoming was not properly before the Court,
meaning that the Court lacked jurisdiction to enter default. (See People v.
National Automobile & Casualty Ins. Co. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 120, 125;
see also Bachman v. Sepulveda (1870) 39 Cal. 688, 690.) Cross-Defendants’ motion to vacate all
actions taken under the October 17, 2023, cross-complaint is granted. CONCLUSIONCross-Defendants’
motion to vacate all actions is granted. Any defaults taken on the
cross-complaint filed by Road Runner Wyoming on October 17, 2023, including the
February 29, 2024, default entered against Erik L. Lassman, are ordered
vacated. 
Moving party to
give notice.