 Case Number:  23CHCV01423    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/19/24     Case    Name:  Ludivina Tovar v. American    Honda Motor Co., Inc., and Does 1-10     Case    # 23CHCV01423      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    APRIL 19,  2024    MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER  RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS    Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV01423    Motion  filed: 2/20/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Ludivina Tovar (“Tovar” or  “Plaintiff”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor  Co., Inc. (“Honda” or “Defendant”) NOTICE: ok.   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court compelling Defendant Honda to provide further responses  to Plaintiff’s first set of Request for Production of Documents Nos. 18, 45-46,  and imposing monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,220.00.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED IN PART. The request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   Plaintiff filed this Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act lawsuit  over alleged defects in her 2022 Honda HR-V (the “Vehicle”), which was  manufactured by Defendant Honda. Plaintiff alleges that she purchased the  Vehicle in new condition on February 28, 2022, with Honda’s manufacturer’s  express warranty.   On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against  Defendant Honda and Does 1 – 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Violation  of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, and (2) Violation of  Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty. Subsequently, Honda filed its  Answer to the Complaint on June 21, 2023.   On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to  Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 18,  45-46, Set One (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on April 8, 2024, Honda filed its  Opposition.   No replying papers have been received by the Court.   ANALYSIS   A motion to compel further responses to a demand for  inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete  statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of  inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)   A.     Procedural  Requirements   1.      45-Day  Rule   “Unless notice of this motion [to compel  further responses to production of documents] is given within 45 days of the  service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on  or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the  responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right  to compel a further response to the demand for productions.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.310, subd. (c).)   Honda served its responses to Plaintiff’s Request for  Production of Documents, Set One, (“RPD”), on December 5, 2023. (Tran Decl., ¶  8, Hernandez Decl., ¶ 5.) This establishes the deadline for Plaintiff to file a  motion to compel further responses as January 19, 2024. However, Plaintiff  filed the instant Motion on February 20, 2024, failing to meet the deadline.    Nevertheless, given that Honda does not contest the  issue of timeliness, the Court proceeds to review the Motion, operating under  the assumption that both parties have stipulated an extension for filing.   2.      Meet  and Confer   A motion to compel further responses to demand for  productions must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)              After receiving Honda’s responses on December 5, 2023,  Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet and confer email. (Tran Decl., ¶ 10.)  Subsequently, both parties telephonically met and conferred on January 19,  2024, discussing the issues raised in the instant Motion. (Id., ¶ 11.)  However, the parties were not able to resolve the issues regarding RPD Nos.  45-46. (Ibid.) Additionally, Plaintiff asserts that Honda agreed to  supplement its responses to RPD No. 18 by February 19, 2024; however, no  responses have been received from Defendant. (Tran Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.)   Therefore, the Court determines that the meet and  confer requirements, as specified in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310  subdivision (b)(2), are satisfied.    3.      Separate  Statement   A motion to compel further responses to  a demand for production must be accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).) “A separate statement is a separate  document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the  information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the  responses to it that are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).)   Plaintiff has met the above requirement  by filing a separate statement explaining the demand for production at issue, Defendant’s  responses, and why further responses are necessary.   B.      Mootness   Defendant argues that the  Motion is moot as to Request No. 18, as Defendant agreed to provide a further  response and produce a copy of its confidential and proprietary standard  Automobile Dealers Sales and Service Agreements. (Opp’n., at 5.)   Plaintiff acknowledges that Honda  agreed to supplement its responses to RPD No. 18 by February 19, 2024. (Tran  Decl., ¶ 11.) However, Plaintiff asserts that no responses have been received  from Defendant. (Id., ¶ 12.) Defendant does not contest that it has  failed to provide the supplement responses on time, despite having agreed to do  so. Nor do the case records suggest otherwise.   Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff correctly made  the Motion under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, as  Defendant’s unfulfilled promise to provide supplemental responses does not  render the Motion moot as to Request No. 18.   C.     Good Cause   A motion to compel further responses to  requests for production shall “set forth specific facts showing good cause”.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) To establish “good cause,” the moving  party must show (1) the items demanded are relevant to the subject matter and  (2) specific facts justify discovery of the requested items (e.g., why such  information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at  trial). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); see Glenfed Develop. Corp. v.  Sup. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) If “good cause” is shown by the  moving party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any  objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 95  Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)   Here, the Motion concerns Honda’s  responses to RPD Nos. 18, 45-46, which request:   “The  operative Franchise Agreement, if any, on the date of sale of the SUBJECT  VEHICLE between YOU and the dealership that sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to  Plaintiff(s).” (RPD No. 18)   “All  DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints by owners of the 2022 Honda HR-V vehicle  regarding any of the complaints that the SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented to YOUR  or YOUR authorized repair facilities for repair during the warranty period.”  (RPD No. 45.)   All  DOCUMENTS evidencing warranty repairs to 2022 Honda HR-V vehicles regarding any  of the components that YOU or YOUR authorized repair facilities performed  repairs on under warranty.” (RPD, No. 46.)   To  prove a cause of action under the Song-Beverly Act, Plaintiff must prove, among  other things, that their vehicle had a defect covered by Honda’s warranty that  substantially impaired its use, value, or safety, which Honda was unable to  repair after a reasonable number of repair attempts. (Civ. Code, §§ 1790 et  seq.; CACI No. 3201.) Additionally, Plaintiff may be entitled to an award of  civil penalties if Plaintiff can establish that Defendant’s refusal to promptly  repurchase or replace Plaintiff’s vehicle was willful. (Civ. Code, § 1794(c).)   Plaintiff argues that the above-listed RPD Nos are  relevant to Plaintiff’s underlying claims. (Mot., at 3.) Plaintiff contends  that RPD No. 18 seeks documents related to Defendant’s franchise agreement,  evidencing “complaints by owners of similar vehicles regarding similar  complaints inhibited by Plaintiff’s vehicle.” (Mot., at 4.) Furthermore,  Plaintiff presents that operative the franchise agreement in place with the  selling dealership outlines the reporting requirements from the dealership to  Defendant regarding any repeated repairs made on the Vehicle or similar  vehicles for the same year, make and model. (Id., at 5.)    For RPD Nos. 45-46, Plaintiff asserts that the  information sought regarding similar customer complaints and warranty repairs  may prove a widespread defect or nonconformity, or demonstrate Defendant’s  knowledge of and inaction to the same. (Mot., at 5.) Plaintiff contends that  evidence sought by RPD Nos. 45-46 may refute Honda’s affirmative defenses  claiming that Plaintiff or others misused the Vehicle or engaged in  unauthorized or unreasonable use, if the same defect and nonconformities were  shared by other owners of the similar vehicles on a wide scale. (Ibid.)  Additionally, Plaintiff asserts that information sought by RPD Nos. 45-46 are  relevant to prove that Defendant did not act in good faith and thus willfully  failed to comply with its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act. (Mot., at 6.)   Based on these arguments, the Court concludes that  Plaintiff has sufficiently met the threshold for demonstrating good cause. The  burden now shifts to Defendant to justify its objections.               D.     Objections   “If the responding party objects  to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or  category of item, the response shall do both of the following:  (1) Identify with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or  electronically stored information falling within any category of item in the  demand to which an objection is being made. (2) Set forth clearly the  extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection. If an objection is based  on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If  an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is protected work  product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that claim shall be  expressly asserted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (b).)   “If  an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information  sought is protected work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual  information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including,  if necessary, a privilege log.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd.  (c).)   1.       Relevance   Code of Civil  Procedure section 2017.010 permits a party to “obtain discovery regarding any  matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter . . . if the  matter is either itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated  to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” Furthermore, established case  law instructs, “For discovery purposes, information should be regarded as  ‘relevant’ to the subject matter if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating  the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez  v. Sup.Ct.  (1995) 33 CA4th 1539, 1546 (citing text); Lipton v.  Sup.Ct. (1996) 48 CA4th 1599, 1611 (citing text); Stewart v. Colonial  Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 CA4th 1006, 1013 (citing text).)    Defendant contends that RPD Nos. 45-46 seek information  involving different vehicles and consumers with different use and repair  histories, arguing such information are “separate and distinct” from the  alleged facts and circumstances of this case. (Def.’s Separate Statement, at  11.) Furthermore, Defendant maintains that “the determination of whether a  defendant acted willfully is based on the repair history of the Plaintiff’s  vehicle.” (Id., at 14.)   In Jensen v. BMW of North American, LLC (S.D. Cal.  2019) 328 F.R.D. 557, 562-563(Jensen), the Jensen Court finds that “information  regarding whether the same defects reported to BMW in other cars of the same  make, model, and year as Plaintiff’s subject vehicle could conceivably be  relevant to weather BMW acted reasonably in denying Plaintiff’s warranty  claims. A fact finder may find BMW’s knowledge or lack of knowledge about the  same defects to be a consideration in deciding whether BMW acted in good faith  as to Plaintiff’s specific case.”   The Court notes the Jensen Court’s findings are not  inconsistent with Defendant’s reliance on Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co.  (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878 (Ibrahim), in which Defendant cites “[the  jury’s attention should not be confused] with a wholly extraneous moral  assessment of [the defendant’s conduct.” (Opp’n., at 8, Def.’s Separate  Statement, at 14.) Putting the quoted language in context, the Ibrahim  Court states, “The [jury] instruction should have told the jury that a civil  penalty could be awarded to plaintiff if the jury determined that Ford knew of  its obligations but intentionally declined to fulfill them. Instead, the jury’s  attention was confused with language which virtually compelled a wholly  extraneous moral assessment of Ford’s conduct. The trial court would have been  better advised to have used the instructions proposed by plaintiff.” (Ibrahim,  at 894.) It is clear to this Court that a language compelling moral assessment  is distinct from factual evidence of complaints reported by other consumers  regarding the same defects and of the same make, model, and year of Plaintiff’s  Vehicle. Consequently, the Court finds Defendant’s argument unpersuasive.   As  previously noted, the Court has determined the relevance of these RFP Nos.  under its analysis of good cause. Defendant’s relevance objection does not  overcome the established basis.    Consequently, the Court OVERRULES  Defendant’s relevance objection.   2.       Overbreadth   Even though relevance is quite  broad, it is not without limits. (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67  Cal.App.4th 424(Obregon).) Although the holding in Obregon does  not directly concern the merits of the objections, it described the discovery  requests there as “very broad” and stated that “their full scope does not  appear reasonably related to the issues in the case.” (Id. at 431.)  “When discovery requests are grossly overbroad on their face, and hence do not  appear reasonably related to a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable  inference can be drawn of an intent to harass and improperly burden.” (Ibid.)  When that is the case, the burden is on the propounding party to “explain why  interrogatories of such breadth are proper.” (Id. at 432.)¿   Here,  Plaintiff’s RPD No. 45 seeks “All DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints by owners of the 2022  Honda HR-V vehicle regarding any of the complaints that the SUBJECT VEHICLE was  presented to YOUR or YOUR authorized repair facilities for repair during the  warranty period.” (Underlines added.)    RPD  No. 46 requests “All DOCUMENTS evidencing warranty repairs to 2022 Honda HR-V  vehicles regarding any of the components that YOU or YOUR authorized  repair facilities performed repairs on under warranty.” (Underlines added.)    The  Court notes that Plaintiff describes the defects at issue as “Plaintiff  received a defective and unsafe vehicle with recurring interior and electrical  problems.” (Mot., at 1.) Although the Plaintiff’s RPD, Set One, does not define  the term “Defects” (see, e.g., used in RPD No. 3), the wording in RPD No. 45  that “regarding any of the complaints that the SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented  ... for repair” can be reasonable interpreted to concern only the defects at  issue.    However,  the Court finds that RPD No. 46 seeks information beyond the scope of the  defects at issue as alleged by Plaintiff. This overreach is evident in the use  of the phrase “regarding any of the components.”   Contrarily,  Plaintiff acknowledges, in her Motion, that “[i]f Defendant had considered this  information, it would have known that such problems are common [to]  Plaintiff’s vehicle[.]” (Mot., at 7.) Furthermore, Plaintiff contends in the  Separate Statement that “[t]he scope of Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of  Documents is necessarily limited to information pertaining only to the same  year make and model as Plaintiff’s Subject Vehicle, and information  pertaining only to complaints of the following problems and concerns which were  exhibited by Plaintiff’s vehicles as described in the repair orders[.]” (Pl.’s  Separate Statement, at 9.)     These  statements contradict the wording of “regarding any of the components” on the  face of the RPD No. 46.    Furthermore,  the Defendant asserts objections as to Request No. 46 that “as phrased, the  request fails to describe the reasonable particularity the documents or  categories of documents being requested in violation of Code of Civil  Procedure, section 2031.030(c)(1). Moreover, this request asks for information  concerning complaints involving different allegations and circumstances,  difference consumers, with different use and repair histories, and other  circumstances that are separate and distinct from the alleged facts and  circumstances of this case.” (Def.’s Separate Statement, at 16.)   Although  the Court has previously overruled Defendant’s relevance objections to the information  (complaints and warranty repairs) from other consumers, it nevertheless  concludes that the scope of Request No. 46 is unreasonably overbroad. This  overbreadth stems from the request’s extension to “regarding any of the  components of the vehicle” which does not appear  “reasonably related to the issues in the case.” (See Obregon, supra,  67 Cal.App.4th at 431.)    Therefore,  the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s overbreadth objection as to RPD Nos. 18 and 45.  However, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s overbreadth objection as to RPD No. 46.  Plaintiff is advised to narrow down the scope from “regarding any of the  components of the vehicle” to focus specifically on components reasonably  related to the alleged defects.   3.       Undue Burden   “The  objection based upon burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum  of work required, while to support an objection of oppression there must be  some showing either of an intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the  ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result sought.” (West  Pico Furniture Co. v. Super. Ct. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) There  is a legislative acknowledgment that some burden is inherent in all demands for  discovery. (Id. at 418.) Yet, “[t]he objection of burden is valid only  when that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice.” (Ibid.)   Here,  Defendant Honda has the burden to substantiate its undue burden objection by  demonstrating why such requests are unreasonably burdensome, such as number of  vehicles involves, the nature of the undertaking to find the requested  information, and the time and costs of doing so. However, Defendant has not fulfilled  its burden by providing the necessary factual showing.   Therefore,  the Court OVERRULES the undue burden objection.     Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to  compel further responses as to RPD No. 18, and 45. The Court DENIES the motion  to compel further responses as to RPD No. 46, SUSTAINING Defendant’s  overbreadth objection as to RPD No. 46.   E.      Monetary  Sanctions   Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 subdivision (h)  provides, in the pertinent part, that “the court shall impose a monetary  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,  person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel  further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   Here, Plaintiff  requests monetary sanctions under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure  section 2031.300 (Mot., at 1, 10.) However, Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.300 authorizes monetary sanctions only for a motion to compel, as distinct  from the instant Motion to Compel Further Responses governed by Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.310 subdivision (h).    Additionally, as  the Court has previously determined that it GRANTS IN PART the instant Motion  and DENIES the Motion as to RPD No. 46, the mandatory monetary sanctions in  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 subdivision (h) awarding the  prevailing party in the motion are inapplicable.                Therefore, the Court DENIES the  Request for Monetary Sanctions.   CONCLUSION   Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Nos.  18, 45-46 is GRANTED IN PART.   Defendant  is ordered to provide supplemental responses to Request Nos. 18 and 45 within  20 days.   Plaintiff’s  Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.    Moving  party is to give notice.