 Case Number:  24STCV04422    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CARLY CUCCO, an
  individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HAYWORTH VILLAS HOMEOWNERS’
ASSOCIATION, a California nonprofit
  mutual
benefit corporation, and DOES 1-20,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV04422
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
  FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTED ADMISSIONS
  ADMITTED
 
Date: October 11, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
CARLY CUCCO (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant HAYWORTH
VILLAS HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant for (1) breach of governing documents; (2)
negligence; (3) nuisance; (4) trespass; (5) violation of Corporations Code
section 7510; and (6) declaratory relief.
 
On
July 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the following discovery motions: (1) Motion to Compel Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One (the “SIs Motion”); (2) Motion to Compel Responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One (the “FIs Motion”); (3) Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (the “RFPs Motion”);
and (4)  Motion to Deem Requested
Admissions Admitted (the “RFAs Motion”) (collectively, “Discovery Motions”).
 
Defendant filed a late opposition on October 2, 2024,
and Plaintiff filed a reply on October 4, 2024. 
The Court may consider late-filed papers where insufficient prejudice
arises from consideration of the opposition.  (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th
690, 697; Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1288.)  The Court may also overlook a party’s failure
to file motion papers in accordance with the applicable deadline and to resolve
the matter on the merits.  (Gonzalez
v. Santa Clara County Dept. of Social Services (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 162,
168.)  Thus, the Court exercises its
discretion and considers Defendant’s late-filed opposition.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Interrogatories
Under CCP section 2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs
interrogatories towards a party, and that party fails to serve a timely
response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely
response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to respond
to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the court
to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  
            
Requests for Admission
If a party
to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely response,
the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including
based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. 
 
Requests for Production
When a party fails to serve a
timely response to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move
for an order compelling a response to the inspection demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff served Defendant
with Requests for Production of Documents, Set One (“RFPs”), Requests for
Admission, Set One (“RFAs”), Form Interrogatories, Set One (“FIs”) and Special
Interrogatories, Set One (“SIs”) (collectively, “Discovery Requests”) on May
20, 2024.  (Declarations of Celine Toubia
in support of the RFPs Motion, RFAs Motion, FIs Motion and SIs Motion, ¶ 2.)  Defendant failed to serve responses to the
Discovery Requests as of July 24, 2024. 
(Id., ¶ 4.)  
 
In its opposition, Defendant’s
counsel declares that due to her own inadvertence, Defendant failed to provide responses
to the Discovery Motions, but that Defendant has now provided responses,
without objections, to the Discovery Requests. 
(Declarations of Leah Berry in support of opposition to the Discovery
Motions, ¶ 5.)
 
Accordingly, since responses to the Discovery Requests
have now been served, Plaintiff’s Discovery Motions are MOOT.  If the responses are not otherwise complete
or Code-compliant, Plaintiff has forty-five days from the date of the hearing
to file a Motion to Compel Further.
 
Monetary Sanctions
Nevertheless,
the question of sanctions still remains before the Court. “[P]roviding untimely
responses does not divest the trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to
compel responses].”  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 407.)  Even if the
untimely response “does not contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s]
the issues raised by a motion to compel responses…the trial court retains the
authority to hear the motion.”  (Id.,
at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an
important incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id., at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the
motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial
court may “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in
whole or in part, and just impose sanctions.” 
(Id., at p. 409; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a)  [“The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed”].)
 
            “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP §
2030.290, subd. (c).)  It is therefore mandatory that the
court impose a monetary sanction on the party or attorney, or both, whose
failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated a
motion for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the request as deemed admitted.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
            Here, Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,160. in
connection with each of the Discovery Motions, representing 7.2 hours of attorney
time for each motion at a rate of $300/hour.  Although Defendant’s counsel admits fault for
Defendant’s failure to serve responses, the Court finds no substantial
justification or any other circumstance that would make the imposition of
sanctions unjust.  Given the duplicative
nature of the motions, however, the Court exercises its discretion and reduces
the monetary sanctions to $600 for each motion, representing 2 hours of
attorney time at a rate of $300/hour. 
Defendant’s counsel is therefore ORDERED to pay the total amount of
$2,400 in monetary sanctions to Plaintiff and her counsel within 30 days of
this Order.
            
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 11th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



