  Case Number:  23STCV25326    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  56  
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PATRICK MALLOY, an individual;  JENNIFER MALLOY, an individual, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CAREY HELLMAN, DBA HELLMAN
ASSOCIATES, an individual; and DOES 1
through 20, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.     
                          


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV25326
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date: October 11, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
PATRICK MALLOY and JENNIFER MALLOY (“Plaintiffs”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant CAREY HELLMAN,
DBA HELLMAN ASSOCIATES (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of construction work
performed by Defendant on Plaintiffs’ duplex (the “Project”).  The complaint (“Complaint”) filed on October
17, 2023 asserts the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Implied-In-Fact Contract;
(2) Negligence; (3) Breach of Implied Warranty; (4) Disgorgement of Payments
Per Bus. & Prof. Code § 7031; (5) Unfair Business Practices Per Bus. &
Prof. Code §17200, et seq.; and (6) Fraud. 
 
            On December 22, 2023, Defendant
filed a demurrer to the fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action of the
Complaint.  In an Order dated July 30,
2024, the Court overruled the demurrer in its entirety.  Defendant then filed an answer on August 1,
2024.
 
            On January 12, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant Motion for Summary Adjudication (the “Motion”) pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f). 
Defendant filed an opposition on May 28, 2024, and Plaintiffs filed a
reply on June 5, 2024.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
             Defendant objects to portions of the
Declaration of Christopher Mass submitted in support of Plaintiffs’
Motion.  The objections are OVERRULED.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendant requests judicial notice of the following:
1.             
Defendant’s Contractor’s License Detail from the
Contractors State License Board (“Exhibit 1”); and
2.             
Plaintiffs’ Owner-Builder Permit (“Exhibit 2”).
 
The requests are DENIED as these documents are
irrelevant to the issues presently before the Court.  More specifically, the documents do not show
the status of Defendant’s license at the time of his work on the Project.  The Court may decline to take judicial notice
of irrelevant matters.  (Town of Atherton v. California High-Speed
Rail Authority (2014) 22 8 Cal.App.4th 314, 341 (“The Authority
requests that we take judicial notice of the fact that amicus curiae POH
participated in the STB proceedings and of letters POH submitted asking the STB
to exercise jurisdiction over the HST. We deny the requests as these matters
are irrelevant.  (People v. McKinzie (2012)
54 Cal.4th 1302, 1326 [court will take judicial notice of only relevant
matters].)”)
 
DISCUSSION
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 437c(f), “[a] party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one
or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more
issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that
there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit
to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to
a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.  A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (CCP § 437c(f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication may be
made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.”  (CCP § 437c(f)(2).)  
 
For
purposes of motions for summary adjudication, “[a] plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.  The defendant or cross-defendant shall not
rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.”  (CCP § 437c(p)(1).)  
 
Bus. & Prof.
Code section 7031(b)
Here,
Plaintiffs’ Motion pertains only to the fourth cause of action in the Complaint
for Disgorgement of Payments pursuant to Bus. & Prof. Code § 7031(b).  
 
California
Business and Professions Code section 7031(b) provides that “a person who
utilizes the services of an unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any
court of competent jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid
to the unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or contract.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031(b).)  A ‘contractor’ is synonymous with ‘builder’
and is “any person who undertakes to or offers to undertake to, or purports to
have the capacity to undertake to, or submits a bid to, or does himself or
herself or by or through others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract
from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building . . . project, development
or improvement…”  (Bus. & Prof. Code,
§ 7026; Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck
Development Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929, 941.)  “Contractor” also includes “[a]ny person,
consultant to an owner-builder, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business trust, corporation, or company, who or which undertakes, offers to undertake,
purports to have the capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct any
building or home improvement project, or part thereof.”  (Id., § 7026.1(a)(2)(A).)
   
In
support of their Motion, Plaintiffs submit evidence that on December 10, 2022,
Defendant presented a proposal to Plaintiffs for the Project – a kitchen
remodel and other construction work on Plaintiffs duplex.  (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Facts [“UMF”], No. 1.)  Plaintiffs hired
Defendant to perform construction work on the Project, and Defendant performed
construction work for Plaintiffs from approximately January 2023 through April
2023.  (UMF Nos. 2-3.)  Plaintiffs paid Defendant a total of $105,000
for his work on the Project.  (UMF No. 4.)  
 
In
his opposition, Defendant does not dispute these facts as presented by
Plaintiffs.  (Opposition, 6:9-12.)  Defendant contends, however, that he was
licensed over the course of the time that he worked on the Project.  In support of his contention, Defendant asserts
that he “ha[s] been a licensed General Building Contractor since January 8,
1982”, and submits a copy of his Contractor’s License issued on January 8,
1982.   (Declaration of Carey Hellman, ¶
17; Exh. 2.)  
 
Defendant’s
purported evidence of his initial licensure in 1982 does not, however, support
his contention that he was actively licensed when he worked on the Project.  Defendant argues that since his licensure
status is disputed, his denial presents triable issues of material fact.  Defendant’s argument is not well-taken.  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(2).); Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
Defendant failed to establish proof of licensure during the relevant
period during which Defendant performed construction work for Plaintiffs.
 
In
contrast, Plaintiffs have submitted evidence, based on a verified Certificate
of Records from the CSLB for Defendant’s license (no. 416618), showing that Defendant’s
license was issued on January 8, 1982, but expired and became inactive on
December 1, 2015, and remained inactive until December 1, 2023, when it became active
again. (UMF No. 5; Declaration of Christopher L. Mass, ¶ 3; Exh. 1.)  
 
In
sum, in the face of evidence presented by the parties, it is evident that during
the relevant time period of January to April 2023 when Defendant performed work
on the Project for which a license was required, Defendant was unlicensed.  
 
RULING
Accordingly,
summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for disgorgement
of payments is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 11th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



