 Case Number:  21STCV43167    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 23, 2021, Plaintiff Arianna Marie Calderilla (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants City of Santa Monica (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for
premises liability.  In the Judicial
Council form attachment for premises liability, Plaintiff checked boxes alleging
that (1) Defendant negligently owned, maintained, managed, and operated the
described premises, (2) Defendant owned public property on which a dangerous
condition existed, and (3) Defendant had actual notice of the existence of the dangerous
condition in sufficient time prior to the injury to have corrected it.  Plaintiff did not check the box alleging that
Defendant’s employees created the dangerous condition. 
On
March 17, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
February 26, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  The
motion was set for hearing on July 26, 2024. 
The Court continued the hearing to September 17, 2024.  On September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
stipulated partial opposition to the motion in which Plaintiff withdrew her
negligence claim.  On September 10, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply. 
On
September 17, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling, heard argument, and continued
the hearing on Defendant’s summary judgment motion to November 14, 2024.  The Court did not adopt its tentative ruling. 
On
September 24, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Anthony Zepeda (“Zepeda”) as Doe 1. 
Also
on September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend the
complaint under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).  The motion was set for hearing on November
13, 2024.  On October 25, 2024, Defendant
filed an opposition.  On November 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for March 26, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court for leave to file a first amended complaint (1) adding a claim
for general negligence against Zepeda and (2) adding a claim that Zepeda, Defendant’s
employee, created a dangerous condition which caused Plaintiff’s injury. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides in part: 
“(b) The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
Defendant
owned, maintained, managed, and operated the Santa Monica Pier in Santa Monica,
California (“premises”).  On November 12,
2020, Plaintiff was walking down the stairs at the premises when she tripped on
a nail protruding from the stairs.  As a
result, Plaintiff fell and was injured. 
The nail protruding from the stairs constituted a dangerous condition on
public property due to lack of maintenance, repair, inspection, training and/or
supervision.  Defendant had actual notice
of the dangerous condition in sufficient time prior to the injury to have
corrected it. 
The
complaint does not allege that Defendant’s employees created the dangerous
condition. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint 
Citing
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), Plaintiff asks the Court
for leave to amend her complaint to include a claim that Defendant’s employees
created the dangerous condition.  (See Motion
p. 5.)  According to Plaintiff, she did
not learn about facts supporting this claim until she obtained the declaration
of James Weening on August 6, 2024.  In
the declaration, Weening asserted that “the head of the nail was bent downward
creating a type of hook,” making it “[look] like someone had tried pulling the
nail out but didn’t, and instead tried hammering it back into the wood.” 
“It
is well settled that the pleadings set the boundaries of the issues to be
resolved at summary judgment.”  (Vulk
v. State Farm General Insurance Company (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 243, 255 (Vulk),
citing Conroy v. Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th
1244, 1254.)  “ ‘Thus, a “defendant
moving for summary judgment need address only the issues raised by the
complaint; the plaintiff cannot bring up new, unpleaded issues in his or her
opposing papers.” ’ [Citation.] “To create a triable issue of material fact,
the opposition evidence must be directed to issues raised by the pleadings.
[Citation.]” ’ ”  (Ibid.)  “ ‘ “If the opposing party’s evidence would
show some factual assertion, legal theory, defense or claim not yet pleaded,
that party should seek leave to amend the pleadings before the hearing on the
summary judgment motion. [Citations.]” ’  (Id. at p. 255, quoting Laabs v.
City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253 (Laabs).) 
In Vulk,
the Court of Appeal held that “[i]f, after [the defendant] moved for summary
judgment, [the plaintiff] believed he had evidence to support [an unpleaded
theory of liability], it was incumbent upon him to seek to amend the complaint
at or prior to the hearing on the motion for summary judgment.  [Citation.]” 
(Vulk, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th at p. 255, quoting Laabs,
supra, 163 Cal.App.4th at p. 1253.) 
Because the plaintiff failed to do so, he “[could not] obtain reversal of the trial court’s summary judgment
ruling on the basis that there was a triable issue of material fact as to [the
unpleaded theory of liability].”  (Ibid.)
“As the Laabs court noted, ‘To allow an issue that has not been pled to
be raised in opposition to a motion for summary judgment in the absence of an
amended pleading, allows nothing more than a moving target.’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Laabs, supra, 163 Cal.App.4th at p. 125, fn. 7; see Millard
v. Biosources, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1353 [plaintiff whose complaint
alleged negligence but not a theory of negligence per se and who did not seek
to amend complaint to include such allegations cannot defeat summary judgment
by raising a theory of negligence per se].) 
Here, Plaintiff has filed a motion to amend her complaint.  Although the Court heard Defendant's summary judgment motion on September 17, 2024, the Court continued the hearing to November 14, 2024.  Because Vulk and Laabs permit plaintiffs to move to amend their complaints as late as the hearing on a defendant's motion for summary judgment, Plaintiff's motion appears to be timely.  The Court will entertain requests for supplemental briefing on Defendant's pending summary judgment motion. The Court grants Plaintiff's motion to file an amended complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Arianna Marie
Calderilla’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint.  The Court orders Plaintiff Arianna Marie Calderilla to file a first amended complaint within 15 days of the hearing on the motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.