 Case Number:  23TRCV03890    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 16, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV03890
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Onni Manhattan Towers Limited Partnership
v. Matern Law Group, PC, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants,
Matern Law Group, PC and Matthew J. Matern
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Onni Manhattan Towers Limited Partnership 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        
Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Demurrer 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  Defendants’
Demurrer is OVERRULED
as to the first and second causes of action, SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days
leave to amend as to the third, and OVERRRULED as to the fourth, and fifth
causes of action.   
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff, Onni Manhattan Towers Limited Partnership
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Matern Law Group, PC,
Matthew J. Matern, and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Guaranty; (3) Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Declaratory Relief RE
Lease; and (5) Declaratory Relief RE Guaranty. 
 
Now,
Defendants, Matern Law Group, PC and Matthew J. Matern (collectively,
“Defendants”) file a demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On July 16, 2024, Defendants filed a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint. On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. On August 12, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            
            With Plaintiff’s opposition papers, Plaintiff requested
this Court take judicial notice of the following: 
 
1.    
Plaintiff Onni Manhattan Towers Limited
Partnership’s Complaint (the “Complaint”) filed in this action on November 21,
2023, (Exhibit 1.)  
2.    
Urgency Ordinance No. 23-0005-U of the Manhattan
Beach City Council (the “MB Ordinance”) adopted February 7, 2023. (Exhibit 2.)
 
The Court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿¿  
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain
if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A
demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims
renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is
supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the original complaint on the
grounds they argue the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action
fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants and are uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible. 
 
i.             
Meet and Confer Requirement 
                       
The declaration of Scott
J. Kalter is offered in support of Defendants’ counsel’s compliance with Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Kalter declares that on February 14, 2024,
he spoke over the phone with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the defects that he
anticipated raising in Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint.
(Declaration of Scott J. Kalter (“Kalter Decl.”), ¶ 4.) However, Kalter
contends that the parties were unable to reach an agreement which necessitated
the filing of the demurrer. (Kalter Decl., ¶ 4.)  
 
Thus,
this Court finds that the parties have met and conferred in good faith prior to
filing the demurrer, and the meet and confer requirements have been met.
 
 
 
ii.              
Breach
of Contract 
 
First,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for
breach of contract because, as pled, the cause of action is uncertain. To state
a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If
a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract,
the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of
the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris
v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some
circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract
rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc.
v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that it and Defendants entered into the lease whereby Defendant, Matern
Law, agreed to lease suite 200 and suite 210 at Manhattan Towers and pay rent,
and other sums due thereunder, to Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 28.) Plaintiff alleges
that it performed all conditions, covenants, obligations, and promises required
to be performed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the lease and
the amendments. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) Plaintiff further alleges that at no time
did it excuse or waive any obligations or breaches of Matern Law under the
lease. (Complaint, ¶ 30.) Plaintiff asserts that Matern Law and DOES 1 through
10 breached their obligations in the lease and amendments thereto, without
cause and by failing to comply with their obligations including the requirement
to make monthly payments and communicated it would not comply with any of its
obligations related to Suite 210. (Complaint, ¶ 31.) As a result of the alleged
breach of contract by Defendants, Plaintiff contends that it has been damaged
by losing revenue as a result of Defendants’ failure to make payments of rent,
common area maintenance charges, taxes, and interest among other costs, and has
incurred attorneys’ fees and costs to enforce the Lease and Guaranty.
(Complaint, ¶ 32.) The total amount of damages Plaintiff claims is owed by
Defendants is in excess of $1,668,620.50. (Complaint, ¶ 32.)
 
In
their moving papers, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s complaint states that
Defendant did not pay rent beginning on or about April 1, 2020 as a result of
the COVID-19 pandemic Complaint, ¶ 17), and that if Defendant had a valid
excuse for not paying rent, then Defendant could not be in breach of the lease.
 Accordingly, Defendants argue that the
allegations they wrongfully relied upon Manhattan Beach Ordinance No.
20-00012-U are conclusory and deductions and this Court does not have to accept
said allegations as true for purposes of a demurrer. Preliminarily, the Court
is confused by Defendants’ argument. A demurrer tests the sufficiency of the
pleadings on their face, not whether the Court can resolve factual disputes
between the parties at the pleading stage. As noted by Plaintiff, “a demurrer
based on an affirmative dense will be sustained only where the face of the
complaint discloses that the action is necessarily barred by the defense.” 
 
However,
Plaintiff points out in their opposition that even if Defendants’ purported
excuse for non-payment  - COVID-19 – was
legitimate, this would only serve to postpone, and not eliminate, Defendant’
payment obligations. The Court agrees. Filed concurrently with Plaintiff’s opposition,
is the judicially noticed City of Manhattan Beach, “Urgency Ordinance No.
23-0005-U,” which notes that on December 20, 2022, the City council voted to
end the City’s local emergency on February 28, 2023, and directed staff to
prepare an ordinance further amending the 2020 Eviction Ordinance to rescind
certain regulations pertaining to commercial tenants. This noted that the
language of Manhattan Beach Ordinance No. 20-0012-U stated, “[n]othing in this
Ordinance shall relieve the commercial tenant of liability for the unpaid rent
that became due during the period from March 17, 2020 to February 7, 2023,
which the tenant must pay on or before September 1, 2023.” 
 
This
Court notes that based on the complaint itself, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged a cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff’s complaint and
request for judicial notice contain the lease agreement, guaranty agreement,
and assignment to Plaintiff, first amended lease agreement, and second
amendment to the lease agreement. Based on Defendants’ arguments on demurrer
and their reply, they have not persuaded this Court to rule in favor of
sustaining demurrer as they do not illustrate how the first cause of action for
breach of contract is uncertain. 
 
As
such, the demurrer as to the first cause of action for Breach of Contract is
OVERRULED. 
 
iii.            
Breach
of Guaranty
 
Next,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for Breach of Guaranty
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant because no Guaranty between Plaintiff and Defendant, Matthew J.
Matern was ever had. The Court disagrees. As alleged in the Complaint and its
attached exhibit, on April 10, 2013, Defendant, Matthew J. Matern entered into a
Guaranty Agreement. Section P of the lease agreement indicates, “Guarantor
Matthew Matern, a single man, pursuant to the Guaranty Agreement in the form
attached hereto as Exhibit F.” (Complaint, Exhibit A.) That further Guaranty
Agreement, signed by Defendant, Matthew J. Matern, states: “The Guaranty
Agreement is for the benefit of Landlord, its successors and assigns…”
(Complaint, Exhibit A, Lease Agreement, Exhibit F, ¶ 6.) Next, the First and
Second Amendment to the Lease (Complaint, Exhibits B & C), assert that it
is being entered into on March 30, 2016 between Onni Manhattan Towers Limited
Partnership, and the Law Offices of Matthew J. Matern. 
 
In
their reply brief, Defendants argue that the Guaranty Agreement is not
incorporated into the lease agreement, but was instead attached to it and that
the First Amendment to the Lease did not reference the Guaranty executed
between the previous landlord and individual, Defendant, Matthew Matern. However,
this is again offered without any evidence or showing thereof. Instead, the
Court’s review of the First Amended Lease agreement, at paragraph 9, states:
“Except as expressly amended herein, the Lease shall remain in full force and
effect and, as hereby amended, is ratified and confirmed by the parties hereto.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this First Amendment and
those of the Lease, the provisions of this First Amendment shall control. The
Second Amended Lease states the same, and neither amendment includes a new and
amended section for the guaranty issue. 
 
Further,
as noted above, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged duty, breach, causation, and
damages.  Thus, the demurrer as to the
second cause of action for Breach of Guaranty is OVERRULED. 
 
iv.            
Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Third,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege its third
cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing. “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it has been
held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment.” (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere
contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same
damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of
action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually
stated . . . [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of action
for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id.
at pp. 1394-1395.) To recover in tort for breach of the implied covenant, the
defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.” (Id.
at p. 1395, citations and italics omitted.)
 
Here,
this Court notes that Plaintiff’s allegations regarding this cause of action do
not seem to go beyond the statement of a contract or guaranty breach. In fact,
the facts alleged in this section contend that Defendants failed to make
payments due under the lease or guaranty agreement, and in doing so, did not
act fairly or in good faith. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-12.) In opposition, Plaintiff
cites to Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1230 (“Thrifty Payless”) to argue that conduct indicating
“unfair dealing” because of conduct – like refusing to pay rent – can
constitute breach of both the express terms of the contract and the implied
terms. (Opp. at 8.) Although the Court in Thrifty Payless found this to
be the case when it came to the allegation that the Thrifty Payless
defendant breached the agreement when it improperly exercised its discretion in
allocating costs between retail and nonretail space, constituting both breach
of contract and breach of the implied covenant. However, this Court notes that
additional bad faith was sufficiently alleged in Thrifty Payless as to
not only constitute the defendant’s behavior in that case to be a breach of a
paragraph of the contract, but also by using defendant’s discretion in a way
that breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
In
the case at bar, although Plaintiff’s allegations allege bad faith, none of the
allegations in this section differ from what the plain language of the contract
or its subsequent integrations included. Defendant Law Firm allegedly breached
the contract by failing to pay rent, and Defendant, Matthew J. Matern breached
the Guaranty Agreement when failing to pay rent in lieu of his law firm paying.
There are no allegations such as those made in Thrifty Payless, where
there was further wrongdoing alleged in a sufficient way as to make this breach
not only be in contract, but also be in the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. Is there any additional remedy Plaintiff seeks for the 3rd
cause of action that is not covered by the first two causes of action?  As such, this Court SUSTAINS this cause of
action on demurrer and allows twenty (20) days to amend. 
 
 
v.              
Declaratory
Relief RE Lease and Declaratory Relief RE Guaranty
 
Lastly,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth causes of action for
declaratory relief are derivative and redundant of Plaintiff’s other claims,
and therefore fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) A cause
of action for declaratory relief should not be used as a second cause of action
for the determination of identical issues raised in another cause of action. (General
of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) “The
availability of another form of relief that is adequate will usually justify
refusal to grant declaratory relief” (California Insurance Guarantee
Association v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624), and a
duplicative cause of action is subject to demurrer (Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290).
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.” (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners
LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation marks omitted.)
 
However,
because this Court found that the first and second causes of action are
sufficiently alleged, this argument is unconvincing. Plaintiff also argues, on
opposition, that the declaratory relief causes of action seek to adjudicate the
parties’ ongoing relationship and may be advanced either alone, or with other
relief.  While both causes of action are
almost identical to that of the first and second causes of action, the declaratory
relief claims appear to go not only to historical alleged breaches but also anticipate
a controversy as to future months lease payments. This Court thus overrules the
demurrer as to the fourth and fifth causes of action. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first and
second causes of action, SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to
the third, and OVERRULED as to the fourth and fifth causes of action.   
 
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 