  Case Number:  23TRCV00785    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 16, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00785
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Christina Maier, et al. v. Kate Dunitz,
et al.  
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Plaintiff,
Christina Maier
(2) Traci
Maier  
(3) Tierney
Mauge
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant, Kate Dunitz 
(2)  
Defendant, Kate Dunitz
(3)  
Defendant,
Kate Dunitz
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        May 19, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Christina Maier’s Motion to Compel Kate Dunitz Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set Three 
                                                (2) Christina Maier’s
Motion to Establish the Truth of the Matters Specified in Request for
Admissions to Kate Dunitz’s 
                                                (3) Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Production of Documents from Kate Dunitz  
                                                (4) Traci Maier’s
Motion to Compel Kate Dunitz’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Three 
                                                (5) Traci Maier’s
Motion Establishing the Truth of the Matters Specific in the Requests for
Admission to Kate Dunitz 
                                                (6) Tierney Mauge’s
Motion to Compel Kate Dunitz to Further Respond to Form Interrogatories, Set
Three 
                                                (7) Tierney Mauge’s
Motion Establishing the Truth of the Matters Specific in the Requests for
Admission to Kate Dunitz
                                                (8) Requests for Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) – (7) Mooted by Defendant
having provided verified responses
                                                (8) Requests for Sanctions
was to be negotiated but it not the Court will refer the parties to Resolve LA
or MCLA for both the monetary sanctions issue as well as efforts to resolve the
entire case given the high cost of private mediation
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On March 16, 2023, Plaintiffs, Christina Maier,
Tierney Mauge, and Traci Maier (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, Kate Dunitz, and DOES 1 through 10. On August 29, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Conversion; (2) Defamation (Slander); and (3) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress. 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff, Christina Maier
propounded Form Interrogatories, Set Three and Requests for Admission on
Defendant. Responses by Defendant were due on or before January 5, 2024.
However, on January 14, 2024, Plaintiff notes that Defense Counsel emailed
objections with no responses to each of the discovery requests. Plaintiffs assert
in their moving papers that on February 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a
meet and confer letter, but that despite this, there has been no response or
any attempt to resolve the matter. 
 
In Defendant’s opposition papers, and specifically in
the Declaration of Thomas Carter (“Carter Decl.”), defense counsel, it notes
that since the filing of the motions, Defendants have served verified, amended
responses to each set of discovery that is subject to each of the motions.
(Carter Decl., ¶ 2.) Carter further notes that he has provided Plaintiffs with
verifications for each previously served response as well as the amended
responses on the very day those verifications became available. (Carter Decl.,
¶¶ 2, 3.)
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On March 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
motions to compel Defendant’s initial and further responses. On April 2, 2024,
Defendant filed opposition briefs. On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff Plaintiffs filed
reply briefs. 
 
On May 21, 2024, this Court held an IDC
with the parties, continued the motions, and ordered counsel to contact the
Court staff by July 19, 2024. 
 
On July 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
objections to Defendant’s late filed reply brief and evidence. On August 12,
2024, Defendant filed a declaration of her counsel, Thomas P. Carter, regarding
Plaintiff’s discovery motion hearing. 
 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
            The service
of verified responses to discovery requests while a motion to compel an initial
response moots the motion to compel initial responses.  It does not moot the sanctions request, and
monetary sanctions are mandated by statute specifically with respect to a
motion to deem RFAs admitted in the context of verified responses being served
before the Court can hear the motion. 
The Court discussed these matters with the parties at the IDC, discussed
the anticipated motion to compel FURTHER responses to certain of the interrogatories,
and Defendant agreed to provide amended verified responses which per Mr. Carter’s
declaration had occurred before the cyber attack delayed conducting these
continued hearings. The Court will not award the excessive amount sought for
monetary sanctions.  If the parties
cannot resolve that issue, the Court will suggest referring the case to one of the
Court’s discount mediation programs given the high cost of the private mediator
the parties have discussed.  The hearing
on sanctions would thus be either suspended or continued to a date certain.