 Case Number:  24TRCV00193    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 16, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00193
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Omar
Garcia v. General Motors, LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 
Plaintiffs, Omar Garcia 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
General Motors, LLC (No Opposition)
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant's PMK
                                                (2)  CMC
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANT as to the PMK deposition
and the Court will discuss a date by which the deposition is to be taken.  The Motion is DENIED as to compelling the documents
sought due to the lack of a Separate Statement or other showing of good cause
for every category sought. Monetary sanction of $1500 are to be payable by GM
or its counsel to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days
                                                (2)  The parties submitted to typical unhelpful
CMC statements in this Song-Beverly Act case involving a 2018 Silverado.  Plaintiff is to provide a summary of the
nature of the Lemon Law case (i.e., is it a presumption case, a single recurring
defect case, a constellation of claimed defects case, an over-30-days to repair
case, etc.  and a discussion of efforts
to have this case placed in a future mediation block.
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
January 19, 2024, Plaintiff, Omar Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendant, General Motors, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint
alleges a violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
On
February 26, 2024, Plaintiff contends that he noticed the deposition of GM’s
Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”). Along with Plaintiff’s notice, Plaintiff
asserts that a meet and confer letter was also served requesting Defendant
provide additional dates to conduct the deposition by March 6, 2024, if the
noticed date did not work with it or it’s counsel’s schedule. However, by March
6, 2024, Plaintiff contends that Defendant failed to respond to Plaintiff’s
meet and confer letter nor did Defendant indicate that the parties would need
to meet and confer to establish a mutually agreeable date and time for the
deposition. Similarly, Plaintiff contends that GM failed to provide objections
to the deposition notice. 
 
            Plaintiff asserts that assuming the
deposition was confirmed, on March 27, 2024, two days prior to the noticed
deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to opposing counsel to confirm
the deposition was moving forward. In response, Defendant’s counsel advised tat
the deposition would not move forward, notwithstanding the fact that Defendant
did not serve objections. 
 
            As such, Plaintiff has brought this
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant GM’s PMK and Request for
Production of Documents. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Compel Deposition
of GM’s PMK and Request for Production of Documents. To date, no opposition has
been filed. On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Non-Opposition. In
fact, other than a minimalist CMC statement, GM has not filed anything in this case
besides its Answer.
¿ ¿¿ 
¿II. MEET
AND CONFER 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2) requires that a
motion to compel a part deponent to appear or produce documents “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2).) The attempt to resolve
informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone, or by
letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i),
[failure to make such attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)
 
            Here, Plaintiff
notes that on March 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel requested an alternative date
in which to conduct the deposition of Defendant’s PMK via email and
establishing an April 5, 2024 deadline to provide alternative dates. By April
5, 2024, Plaintiff contends that no alternative dates were provided, nor were
any attempts to meet and confer made by Defendant’s counsel. Further, on April
10, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel served a second meet and confer letter requesting
three days in which to conduct the deposition of Defendant’s PMK, and
establishing a April 19, 2024 deadline to provide alternative dates. However,
by April 19, 2024, no alternative dates were provided, nor attempts to meet and
confer from Defense Counsel. Additionally, on April 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel notes that a request for alternative dates was also sent, establishing
a May 1, 2024 deadline to provide, but by then, no alternative dates or meet
and confer dates were provided by Defendant’s counsel. 
 
            This Court
finds that Plaintiff’s attorney sufficiently attempted to meet and confer prior
to bringing this motion. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, section (a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  
 
The motion must “be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if
the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
 
B.    Discussion 
¿ 
            Here, because GM failed to object to
the notice of deposition, and also failed to provide alternative dates for the
taking of the deposition, the Court notes that it would typically GRANT such a
motion. However, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2045.450
subdivision (b)(1), Plaintiff’s motion was required to set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2045.450, subd. (b)(1).  Plaintiff’s motion is missing this analysis. While
the Court can compel the parties to set discovery for a mutually agreeable
date, the good faith of the categories of discovery remains. Further, pursuant
to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1020(a)(5), a motion to compel the
production of documents at a deposition must be accompanied by a separate
statement. Plaintiff has not filed a separate statement in the bringing of this
motion, but the motion is also for the production of documents at the
deposition. As such, this Court GRANTS the motion to compel the deposition of
GM”s PMK but DENIES this motion to compel the production of the requested documents.
The denial of the motion to compel the documents is without prejudice to
Plaintiff serving a new or the same document demand before the date set for the
deposition, putting GM to the task of asserting timely objections to any
specific category or categories of requested documents.  Monetary sanction of $1500 are to be payable by GM or its counsel to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days. 
                                        
 