  Case Number:  23STCV02597    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff LA Metropolitan Development Corp. (“LAMDC”)
sued Defendant the Code Solution (“TCS”) and multiple persons whom LAMDC
alleged to be agents, shareholders, employees, and/or officers of TCS
(“collectively, “the Defendants”).  LAMDC’s
complaint arises from a contract that LAMDC is alleged to have entered into
with TCS for the provision by TCS of architectural services to LAMDC in
connection with two properties in Los Angeles that LAMDC was developing --  one located at 305 N. Boylston Street, and the
other at 964 S. Catalina Street (collectively, “the Properties”).  At the heart of each claim are allegations
that none of the Defendants was licensed by the State of California to provide
architectural services.   TCS has filed a
Cross-Complaint against LAMDC and an individual named Andrew Yao (“Yao”) whom
TCS alleges controls LAMDC.  TCS’s Cross-Complaint
alleges that LAMDC and Yao breached contracts for the payment of TCS for its
provision of real estate development services to LAMDC and Yao at the
Properties.  In addition to a claim for
breach of contracts, TCS’s Cross-Complaint has claims for common count based on
TCS’s alleged provision of those services to LAMDC and Yao. 
Pending before the Court is the demurrer of LAMDC and Yao
to TCS’s Cross-Complaint.  The premise of
the demurrer is that the “contract” -- singular contract, not plural contracts -
on which the Cross-Complaint rests is illegal because TCS does not have any
licensed architects or engineers working for it.  LAMDC and Yao also posit in their demurrer that
this Court agreed with them that the contract was illegal when the Court
overruled the Defendants’ demurrer to TCS’s operative First Amended Complaint. LAMDC and Yao misapprehend the limitations of a demurrer
and the limitations of this Court’s decision overruling Defendants’ demurrer to
LAMDC’s First Amended Complaint.  Accordingly, the Court is overruling the demurrer of LAMDC and Yao to the Cross-Complaint.
It is elemental that a demurrer tests the sufficiently of
allegations in a complaint, which must be accepted as true for purposes of the
demurrer, and that a demurrer necessarily must be limited to what is alleged in
the complaint and what is set forth in any attachments to the complaint.  A demurrer cannot stray beyond those
confines.  (Autonomous Region of
Narcotics Anonymous v. Narcotics Anonymous Word Services, Inc. (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 950, 962;  Dodd v.
Citizens Bank of Costa Mesa (1990) 
222 Cal.App.3d 1624, 1626-1627.)   The demurrer of LAMDC and Yao contravenes
these basic principles.  TCS’s Cross-Complaint
alleges that LAMDC and Yao breached contracts -- plural, not singular -- for
the payment to TCS for real estate development services it provided to LAMDC
and Yao related to the Properties.  The
notion that there was just one contract, not two as TCS alleges, comes from the
allegations in LAMDC’s operative First Amended Complaint, not the allegations
in TCS Cross-Complaint.   More fundamentally, the notion that the
contract, singular, was illegal because TCS had no licensed architects or engineers
likewise comes from the allegations in LAMDC’s First-Amended Complaint.   LAMDC and Yao cannot through their demurrer
inject into the Cross-Complaint allegations they made in First Amended
Complaint.  They are two separate
pleadings.  LAMDC and Yao’s demurrer exceeds
the boundaries of the Cross-Complaint.
This Court’s decision overruling the Defendants’ demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint did not hold that any contract (or contracts) on
which LAMDC’s claims against the Defendants rest was illegal for the lack of
licensed architects or engineers in TCS’s camp. 
The Court simply held that, at the pleading stage, LAMDC’s allegations regarding
illegality were sufficient to withstand the Defendants’ demurrer.    
LAMDC and Yao’s demurrer to the common count claims in
the Cross-Complaint fails as well to the extent the demurrer to those claims
argues that the contract under which TCS provided services was illegal.   The demurrer also fails to the extent that
it argues that the TCS does not adequately plead common count claims.  The allegations in the Cross-Complaint
supporting those claims, which, as stated above, must be taken as true at this
stage, are sufficient to withstand the demurrer.