  Case Number:  24AVCP00240    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a proceeding regarding a Petition
for Writ of Mandate. Petitioner John Doe, an individual minor through his
parent and next friend, Jane Doe (“Petitioner”), requests the Court dismiss
Respondents’ administrative action against Petitioner as time barred and
without jurisdiction. Petitioner alleges that he is a high school student and
on or about August 08, 2024, Respondent Katheryn Taylor (“Taylor”) issued a
Notice of Title IX Complaint and Allegations of Sexual Harassment that on July
29, 2024, another high school student had filed a formal complaint against
Petitioner alleging unlawful discrimination that had occurred on March 30,
2023. Petitioner presents that the complainant student had knowledge of the
facts of the alleged unlawful discrimination at the time the complainant
alleged the misconduct; the deadline for the complainant student to file the
complaint was within six months of March 30, 2023 or no later than October 01,
2023; the student complainant made no request to extend the time for filing for
up to 90 days by the Superintendent or designee for good cause upon written
request by the complainant setting forth the reasons for the extension under 5
Cal. Code Regs. it. 5, § 4630; the administrative complaint is time barred;
Petitioner has asked Respondents dismiss their administrative action, but
Respondents Taylor and Antelope Valley Union High School District (“AVUHSD” and
collectively “Respondents”) have refused; and Petitioner has no adequate remedy
at law. 
 
On September 16, 2024, Petitioner
filed his Petition for Writ of Mandate, or in the Alternative, Prohibition (the
“Petition”). 
 
On September 30, 2024, Petitioner
filed for a Motion for Stay of Proceedings or in the Alternative Preliminary
Injunction (“Motion to Stay”). 
 
On October 18, 2024, Respondents
filed a Demurrer. 
 
On October 29, 2024, Respondents
filed their Opposition to the Motion to Stay. 
 
On November 05, 2024, Petitioner
filed an Opposition to the Demurrer. 
 
On November 05, 2024, Petitioner
filed his Reply to the Motion to Stay.
 
No Reply has been filed for the
Demurrer. 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner presents that he is
entitled to the issuance of the writ as Respondents are proceeding
administratively and are an inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person
exercising judicial functions, proceeding without or in excess of their
jurisdiction; Petitioner is beneficially interested as a respondent and target
of the complaint that Respondents are seeking to investigate and adjudicate;
Respondents’ exercise of judicial functions against a high school student based
on a complaint that is time-barred is not authorized by law; and where there is
not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the law, a
writ of prohibition may be issued on the verified petition of the person
beneficially interested, by any court to an inferior court, to arrest the
proceedings of the tribunal when such proceedings are without or in excess of
jurisdiction of the tribunal under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1102 and 1103. Petitioner
further presents that California’s statutory framework provides that in a writ
of mandate matter a court may stay the operation of the administrative order or
decision pending the judgment of the court” unless the court finds that a stay
would be contrary to the public interest and, here, Petitioners have no further
burden for the stay whereas Respondents have to satisfy the Court that the stay
is against the public interest as Respondents are taking administrative
disciplinary action against Petitioner based on a complaint brought by another
high school student long after the time for submitting such complaints had
expired. Petitioner argues that (1) the stay is not contrary to public interest
as the public has an interest in n ensuring that public high schools and their
administrators comply with California law and the school’s own policies and
refrain from imposing administrative disciplinary proceedings on students for
arbitrary reasons, such as acting on complaints brought by other high school
students long after the time for submitting such complaints has expired; (2) without
a stay Respondents will be in a race to complete the investigation and
adjudicative process before the Court rules on the Writ.
 
In Opposition, Respondents argue
that there is no legal basis for granting a stay under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
1094.5 as Petitioner has sought a traditional mandamus under Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 105, 1086, and 1102 as set forth in the caption of this Motion for
Stay and the preamble to the Petition. Further, Respondents present that a writ
for administrative mandate lies only as to “the operation of the administrative
order or decision and, here, there has been no evidence or allegation that any
final administrative order or decision has been made by Respondents. Respondents
also argue that there is no legal basis for granting an immediate stay pursuant
to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1102 and Respondents are not a tribunal, corporation,
board, or person exercising “judicial functions” by proceeding with the Title
IX Complaint investigation; the filing of the Title IX Complaint commenced an
administrative action; a writ of prohibition does not lie as to administrative
actions; and he State of California has not conferred any “judicial powers” on
public school districts with
respect to the initiation or the
handling of a Title IX complaint because a Title IX complaint is governed by
federal law and regulations. Respondents present that, as Petitioner seeks a
writ of traditional mandate, the proper way to stay is a preliminary injunction
and Petitioner has not met its claim on the merits as Title IX regulations are
federal and do not contain a limitations period for filing a formal complaint
with AVUHSD; the uniform Complaint Procedures identified in California Code of
Regulations, Title 5, Sections 4600 et seq. do not apply to Title IX
complaints as Title IX is federal statute; AVUHSD’s Uniform Complaint Procedure
policy and regulations are irrelevant to this lawsuit because the alleged
wrongful conduct engaged in by Respondents is the initiation and refusal to
dismiss a Title IX formal Complaint; Respondents cannot demonstrate any legal
entitlement to an order compelling Respondents to dismiss the Title IX
Complaint for any other reason; Petitioner has not shown irreparable injury and
AVUHSD has a legal obligation under the
Title IX regulations to properly
investigate all claims that fall under Title IX’s purview otherwise AVUHSD is
at risk of being found deliberately indifferent and liable for damages to the
student who filed the Title IX Complaint. Respondents present that their
obligation under the Title IX regulations to properly investigate all claims
that fall under Title IX’s purview.
 
In Reply, Petitioner states:
“Respondents are correct that the Petition seeks ordinary mandamus (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1085) or a writ of prohibition (Code Civ. Proc., § 1102), however, the
stay provisions of Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5 may provide some guidance in
fashioning a stay or injunction pending review of the Petition on the merits.”
(Reply 7:12-15.) Petitioner argues that the federal 2020 Title IX Regulations
and California’s Title 5 regulations are a distinction without difference. Petitioner
presents that the Uniform Complaint Procedures apply to “[a]ny other state or
federal educational program the Superintendent deems appropriate[,]” citing
Cal. Ed. Code, § 33315(a)(1)(P), and argues that, as such the Uniform Complaint
Procedures apply to this case. Petitioner presents that as the Uniform
Complaint Procedures, Respondents must dismiss the administrative complaint
under 24 C.F.R. 106.45 and, if Respondents believe the allegations in the
formal complaint satisfy the definitions in 34 C.F.R. 106.30, then the Uniform
Complaint Procedures applies to this action. Petitioner reiterates arguments
from his moving papers and provides the following further arguments: (1) there
is harm of an unnecessary and improper investigation and adjudication process
that would fall on Petitioner, and (2) the investigator and decision-marketer
in the administrative disciplinary action are Respondents’ law firm of record
in this litigation, a blatant conflict that deprives Petitioner of the right to
impartial adjudicators.
 
Petitioner’s Reply concedes that
a stay under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5 is improper as he is seeking
ordinary mandamus. As such, the Court treats this motion as a motion for
preliminary injunction.
 
“A preliminary
injunction is an interim remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a
decision on the merits.”¿ (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 623; see also Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536.)¿ “[A] cause of action must exist before injunctive
relief may be granted.”¿ (Id. (citing Shell Oil Co. v. Richter
(1942) 52 Cal.App.2d 164, 168).) 
¿ 
¿The status quo has been defined
to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the
pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) Preliminary injunctive relief requires the
use of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds
for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41
Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) Injunctive relief may be granted based on a verified
complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate, facts. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 527(a).) For this reason, a pleading alone rarely
suffices. (Weil & Brown, California Procedure Before Trial, 9:579, 9(ll)-21
(The Rutter Group 2007).) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as moving
party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)
A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(4); Thayer Plymouth Center,
Inc. v. Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307.) 
 
The trial court considers two
factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the
likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and
(2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court
grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a); Husain v.
McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm
between the parties “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of
other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving
the status quo.” (Husain, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 867.) Thus, a
preliminary injunction may not issue without some showing of potential
entitlement to such relief. (Doe v. Wilson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296,
304.) The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the
sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent
an abuse of discretion. (Thornton v. Carlson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249,
1255.) 
 
A preliminary injunction
ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the plaintiff provides an
undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of
the injunction if the court finally decides that the plaintiff was not entitled
to the injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 529(a); Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1150(f); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn.
(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.) 
 
Petitioner has not shown the
likelihood that he will prevail on the merits of the case at trial. Specifically,
Petitioner has stated: 
Petitioner has at
least a colorable claim that Respondents are taking administrative disciplinary
action against Petitioner based on a complaint brought by another high school
student long after the time for submitting such complaints had expired.
 
Further, it does not appear that
there will be irreparable harm. That is, the administrative complaint has not
proceeded to its final stages and, upon a final determination, as Petitioner
can proceed with a writ after the final administrative order. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 1094.5.) 
 
Accordingly, the Motion for Stay
is DENIED.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner John Doe’s Motion for Stay of
Administrative Action is DENIED.