 Case Number:  BC709971    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint filed: 6/13/18
   
Hon. Lee S. Arian   
Department 27   
Tentative Ruling   
   
Hearing Date:                3/7/2024 at 1:30 p.m.   
Case No./Name:          BC709971/RONALD HILLMAN ET AL VS CITY OF LOS ANGELES ET
AL
Motion:                              PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DISMISSAL 
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff 
Responding Party:      Defendant Department of Water and Power of the City of Los Angeles  
Notice:                                Sufficient   
  
Ruling:                               PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DISMISSAL IS DENIED.
  
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the original complaint
on June 13, 2018. The Final Status Conference (FSC) and Trial date was set for
March 13, 2023. Following Plaintiff's death, Plaintiff’s Counsel, Mr. Yoon Kim,
filed an ex-parte motion to amend the complaint and to continue the trial date.
The ex-parte was heard on March 13, 2023, and the Court allowed the amendment
and continued the FSC date to May 1, 2023, and trial date to May 15, 2023.  The case was dismissed on May 15, 2023, when
Plaintiff Sarah Hillman, for herself and as the successor-in-interest for Ronald
Hillman, and her counsel failed to appear for trial, having failed to appear
for the May 1 FSC. 
Mr. Kim alleges that after the March 13,
2023, ex-parte hearing, he promptly directed his then-paralegal to note the new
trial and FSC dates, along with any associated deadlines. Despite these
instructions, the paralegal did not calendar the dates. Consequently, he forgot
to attend both the FSC and the trial, leading to the dismissal of the case on
May 15, 2023. Plaintiff now moves the court to set aside the dismissal entered
on May 15, 2023, due to Mr. Kim’s mistake, negligence or inadvertence.
In the
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff's failure to attend the FSC and
trial was not due to negligence, mistake, or inadvertence. Instead, Mr. Kim was
fully informed about both the FSC and the trial date. Defense counsel declared
that she sent numerous emails regarding the FSC and trial dates to Mr. Kim and
his assistants, in addition to multiple voicemails regarding the same.
Plaintiff did not submit a reply to challenge Defendant's contentions.
 
 Legal
Standard 
 
The
discretionary relief provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subd.
(b) provide in relevant part: 
 
“The court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” 
 
The
mandatory relief provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b) apply specifically to defaults, default judgments, and dismissals, and
provide in relevant part: 
 
“Notwithstanding any
other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk . . . or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against
his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not
in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
 
The
plain language of the statute makes clear that the Court must decide whether or
not the dismissal of the action was caused by attorney mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or neglect as opposed to actions of the client or an intentional
decision. (Todd v. Thrifty Cmp. (1995) 34 Cal. App. 4th 986,
991 -992; Graham v. Beers (1994) 30 Cal. App. 4th 1656,1660; Johnson
v. Pratt & Whitney Canada, Inc. (1994) 28 Cal. App. 4th 613, 622-623.)
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff argues that the dismissal
should be vacated due to Plaintiff counsel's mistake, inadvertence, or
negligence. Mr. Kim asserts in his declaration that his law firm experienced a
high turnover of paralegals. Following the March 13, 2023, ex-parte hearing for
leave to amend and to continue the trial, he promptly instructed his
then-paralegal to calendar the new trial date of May 15 and the new FSC date of
May 1, along with any related deadlines. (Kim Decl. ¶ 5.) Despite the
instruction, Plaintiff’s counsel’s then-paralegal failed to calendar the dates.
(Id.) Because the trial date, the FSC, or any related dates were never
put into counsel’s calendar as instructed, he did not attend the FSC or the
trial. (Id., ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff’s request does not fit into
the mandatory set aside provision because it was not made within 6 months.  Accordingly, any set aside is at the
discretion of the Court.
The court finds Plaintiff's
argument for set aside unpersuasive. During Plaintiff’s March 13, 2023 ex-parte
hearing, Plaintiff's counsel was notified by the court that the Final Status
Conference (FSC) was rescheduled to May 1 and the trial date to May 15, 2023,
which was less than two months from the original date.  It is unclear why it took almost a year to
raise this issue with the Court.   Furthermore, Defendant introduced numerous
pieces of evidence demonstrating that defense counsel provided notice to
Plaintiff's counsel of the FSC and trial date. On March 21, 2023, Defense
Counsel Deborah Dorny emailed Plaintiff's counsel, Mr. Kim, to explore a
possible resolution before the FSC scheduled for May 1, 2023. (Dorny Decl., ¶¶
9-10, Exh. B, C). On April 17, 2023, an email was sent to Mr. Kim inquiring
into his intentions regarding the case, with a reminder about FSC in the following
week. (Id., ¶ 11, Exh. D.) From March to May 2023, Defendant left several
telephone messages for Mr. Kim, and his assistant, to discuss the upcoming FSC
and trial. (Id., ¶ 15.)
Defendant also attempted to
work with Mr. Kim on stipulations for the upcoming FSC and trial in May 2023..
On April 25, 2023, Defendant inquired to Plaintiff's counsel about any interest
in complying with the FSC orders and preparing joint documents. (Id., ¶ 12,
Exh. E.) On the same day, Defendant sent Mr. Kim a list of Motions in Limine
intended to be filed and asked for stipulations on any issues raised. (Id., ¶
13, Exh. F.)
Emails were not only sent
to Mr. Kim but also to his assistants. After Plaintiff's counsel failed to show
for the FSC on May 1, a Notice of Ruling was served by email to Plaintiff's
counsel and his assistants. (Id., ¶ 5, Exh. A.) On May 8, 2023, Defendant
served Mr. Kim and his assistants with clients' Trial Binders and Exhibits.
(Id., ¶ 14, Exh. G.) No rejection emails were received in response to
defendant’s numerous email notifying Plaintiff of the FSC and trial date. In
fact, Defendant have corresponded with Mr. Kim using that exact email as late
as March 10, 2023. (Id., ¶ 16, Exh. H.) 
Plaintiff was given an
opportunity to address the evidence presented by Defendant, but no reply brief
was filed. Based on the evidence presented, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
counsel was aware of the FSC and trial date, and his failure to attend the FSC
on May 1, 2023 and trial on May 15, 2023 that led to the dismissal of the case
was not simply due to the mistake raised as the basis for a set aside, i.e ,the
failure of counsel’s paralegal to correctly calendar the FSC and trial.  Thus, Plaintiff's Motion to Vacate Dismissal
is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:     
  
·       
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.       
 
·       
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.       
 
·       
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.      
 
 
 
 
 