 Case Number:  23PSCV03466    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Noel Galang and Inspire Mobility Access Co.’s
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Noel Galang and Inspire Mobility Access Co.’s
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND

This is a personal injury action rising from
a motor vehicle collision that occurred at Rowland Avenue and Lark Ellen Avenue
in West Covina on September 26, 2023. On November 7, 2023, Plaintiffs Linda
Rangel and Crescencio Rangel filed a complaint against Defendants Napaporn
Ratana, Noel Galang, Inspire Mobility Access Co. (Inspire), and Does 1-100,
alleging a single cause of action for motor vehicle negligence.
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Cresencio
Rangel, Brian Ethan Rangel, Chris E. Rangel, Anissa N. Zabala, and Carie L.
Rangel (collectively, the Rangels) filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against the same defendants alleging the same cause of action.
 
On February 15, 2024, Inspire and Galang filed
the present motion. Prior to filing, Inspire and Galang’s counsel met and
conferred telephonically with the Rangels’ counsel and was unable to reach a
resolution. (Carrillo Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
A hearing on the motion to strike is set for June
20, 2024, along with a case management conference.
 
ANALYSIS

Inspire and Galang move to strike negligent
entrustment allegations from the Rangels’ FAC on the grounds that Inspire has admitted
to vicarious liability in its answer. For the following reasons, the Court DENIES their motion.
 
Legal Standard

Motion to Strike
 
Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own
motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
An immaterial or irrelevant allegation
includes “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim
or defense,” “(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)
 
Negligent Entrustment and Vicarious
Liability
 
When an employee causes injury in a motor
vehicle collision during the course of the employee’s employment, the employer
may be held liable directly for negligent entrustment and indirectly through
vicarious liability. (Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, 1151-1152.)
But, when both theories are asserted, the employer can bar negligent
entrustment liability by admitting vicarious liability. (Id., at p.
1152.)
 
Discussion

In this case, the FAC alleges Ratana and
Galang operated the motor vehicle at issue. (FAC, ¶ MV-2(a).) The FAC alleges
they operated the vehicle in the course of their employment and were employed
by Inspire. (FAC, ¶ MV-2(b).) The FAC also alleges Inspire owned the vehicle
and entrusted it to Ratana and Galang. (FAC, ¶ MV-2(c), (d).) In their answer
to the FAC, Inspire and Galang deny that there was negligence but admit that
Galang “was acting in the course and scope of his work relationship with”
Inspire when the collision occurred and that if Galang acted negligently,
Inspire would be held vicariously liable. (Galang and Inspire Answer to FAC, p.
1:28-2:4.)
 
However, the court finds that Inspire and
Galang’s answer does not actually admit to Galang being the driver of the motor
vehicle. Instead, despite admitting Galang was acting within the scope of
Galang’s employment with Inspire, Inspire and Galang otherwise deny each and
every allegation of the FAC. (Galang and Inspire Answer to FAC, p. 1:23-27.)
Ratana’s answer also denies each and every allegation of the FAC and does not
admit to being the driver of the vehicle. (Ratana Answer to FAC, ¶ 1-2.)
Because neither Galang nor Ratana admit to being the driver of the vehicle and
Inspire has not admitted that they are vicariously liable for Ratana’s actions,
Inspire may still be held liable for negligent entrustment if Ratana was the
operator.
 
Accordingly, Inspire and Galang’s motion to
strike is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, Inspire
and Galang’s motion to strike portions of the Rangels’ FAC is DENIED.