  Case Number:  23PSCV02030    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Kenbald International, Inc.’s Motion to Set
Aside Plaintiff’s Entry of Default
Respondent: Plaintiff Guangzhou
Hong You Trading Co., Ltd.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Kenbald International, Inc.’s Motion to Set
Aside Plaintiff’s Entry of Default is GRANTED. Defendant Kenbald International,
Inc.’s Answer that was previously received by the Court on
April 9, 2024 is deemed filed and operative as of this date.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for breach of contract and fraud. Plaintiff Guangzhou Hong You
Trading Co., Ltd. (Guangzhou Hong You Trading) is a Chinese manufacturer and
vendor of denim jeans. One of its buyers was Defendant Eddie Lin who purchased
goods from Guangzhou Hong You Trading through S.H.E. Global, Inc., a California
corporation owned by Lin. In October 2021, Lin allegedly told Guangzhou Hong
You Trading that Lin wanted to use one of Lin’s other corporations, Defendant
Kenbald International, Inc. (Kenbald), to place orders with Guangzhou Hong You
Trading so Lin could purportedly increase Kenbald’s credit lines.
From
December 2022 to January 2023, Lin and Kenbald’s CEO, Defendant Zhimin Dai,
placed sixteen different orders with Guangzhou Hong You Trading. Subsequently,
Lin, Dai, and Kenbald allegedly failed to pay for the goods and services they
received. Guangzhou Hong You Trading alleges that Dai was hired by Lin to be a
fake CEO and that Lin intentionally made Kenbald financially insolvent so as to
defraud Guangzhou Hong You Trading.
On July
7, 2023, Guangzhou Hong You Trading filed a complaint against Lin, Dai, Kenbald,
and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract,
(2) breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud, and
(4) civil conspiracy. On February 9, 2024, Guangzhou Hong You Trading’s process
server served Kenbald and Dai with substitute service in Temple City. On February
25, 2024, Guangzhou Hong You Trading’s process server served Lin with
substitute service in Walnut.
On March
26, 2024, the Court entered default against Kenbald and Dai after they failed
to timely file an answer. On April 8, 2024, the Court entered default against
Lin after Lin also failed to timely file an answer.
On
April 9, 2024, Lin and Kenbald filed answers and a cross-complaint against
Guangzhou Hong You Trading and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, (3) fraud, (4) civil conspiracy, (5) common counts, and (6) intentional
interference with prospective economic relations.
On
May 13, 2024, Guangzhou Hong You Trading filed a motion to strike portions of
Lin and Kenbald’s Cross-Complaint. On the same day, Guangzhou Hong You Trading
also filed a motion to strike Kenbald’s answer to Guangzhou Hong You Trading’s
Complaint.
On May
28, 2024, Kenbald filed the present motion.
On June
10, 2024, Guangzhou Hong You Trading stipulated to setting aside the entry of
default against Lin.
A
hearing on the present motion and a case management conference are set for June
20, 2024. A hearing on Guangzhou Hong You Trading’s motions to strike are set
for August 21, 2024, and August 22, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Kenbald
seeks to set aside the entry of default on the grounds of improper service, mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS Kenbald’s motion.
Legal Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from default judgment is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the moving
party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against the moving party or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against the moving party, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd.
(b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional
and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after that period has
elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36,
42 (Manson).) That “six-month period runs from entry of default, not
entry of judgment.” (Id.)
Courts
liberally grant motions to vacate default judgments when relief is promptly
sought and the opposing party is not prejudiced as the law strongly favors
resolution on the merits. (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 13, 28.) Courts only require “slight evidence” to support vacating
a default and resolve all doubts in favor of the party seeking relief. (Ibid.)
However, “[t]he only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a
party is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or
negligence of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded.” (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206, quoting Elms
v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513.)
Discussion
In
this case, Kenbald first argues Guangzhou Hong You Trading’s substitute service
of Kenbald was improper because it was not completed at Kenbald’s registered
mailing address in Walnut. (Motion, p. 7:1-6.)
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d), “The court may . . .
on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.” “[A] default judgment entered against a defendant who was
not served with a summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Dill
v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) Thus,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d), “the court
may set aside a default judgment which is valid on its face, but void, as a
matter of law, due to improper service.” (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 540, 544.)
A
corporation may be served by “delivering a copy of the summons and the
complaint . . . [t]o the person designated as agent for service of process.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subd. (a).) In addition to personal delivery,
summons may also be served on a corporation’s agent “by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or her office or, if no
physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing address, other than a
United States Postal Service post office box, with the person who is apparently
in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and
complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at
the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
In
this case, Lin provided a declaration stating the address of 20317 Lake Erie
Drive in Walnut, California is the principal and regular mailing address for
Kenbald. (Lin Decl., ¶ 10.) In support of this claim, Lin provided a copy of what
appears to be the California Secretary of State’s website which displays the
Walnut address as Kenbald’s mailing address. (Lin Decl., Ex. 2.) The same website
lists Dai as Kenbald’s agent and provides the Walnut address as Dai’s address. (Lin
Decl., Ex. 2.) Kenbald’s 2023 and 2022 Statements of Information also provide
the same addresses and list Dai as Kenbald’s agent. (Agopoglu Decl., Ex. A.)
Based on this evidence, it appears the Walnut address is the usual mailing
address for Dai as Kenbald’s agent.
However,
instead of serving Dai at the Walnut address, Guangzhou Hong You Trading attempted
to serve Dai at an address in Temple City as reflected in their proof of
service filed with the Court. When service of summons is challenged as
improper, the serving party generally bears the initial burden of proving the service
was proper. (See American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 383, 387.) Guangzhou Hong You Trading’s counsel states they did not
serve Dai at the Walnut address because they determined it was a bad address.
(Agopoglu Decl., ¶ 7.) In support of this claim, Guangzhou Hong You Trading’s
counsel provided a copy of a “proof of diligence” that purports to show the
service attempts made at the Walnut address. (Agopoglu Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) But
counsel failed to establish how they have personal knowledge of these purported
service attempts and failed to authenticate the exhibit. (See Evid.
Code, §§ 702, 1400, 1401.) Further, the “proof of diligence” is not in the
proper form of a signed and sworn affidavit. Thus, the court finds it has no
evidentiary value.
Moreover,
even if the court considered this exhibit, it still fails to establish service
was proper. It states a “Danny Wu” claimed “defendant” is unknown at the
address. (Agopoglu Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) But it does not clarify which
“defendant” Wu was referring to and the fact that one occupant of the Walnut
address is unaware of Dai does not mean it cannot have served as a mailing
address. In fact, the process server could have and probably should have effected
substitute service right then and there. Instead, the process server apparently
took the word of an individual who could be motivated to avoid service with
misleading information over Kenbald’s official filings with the California
Secretary of State. Last, even if the Court accepts the dubious premise that it
was reasonable to abandon service at the Walnut address, Guangzhou Hong You
Trading failed to provide any evidence that establishes the Temple City address
was the proper address for Dai. Thus, the Court does not find the substitute
service of Kenbald was proper but in doing so, the Court issues no opinion as
to the propriety or effectiveness of the substitute service on Dai
individually.
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Kenbald’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Kenbald’s motion to set aside default
is GRANTED and
Kenbald’s answer that was previously received by the Court on April 9, 2024 is
deemed filed and operative as of this date.