 Case Number:  24PSCV00281    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Leave to  File Cross-Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Leave to  File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED and the Cross-Complaint submitted with the declaration  of Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Counsel is to be filed forthwith. BACKGROUND This  is a premises liability action. In June 2023, Plaintiff Peter Tran tripped and  fell on a sidewalk near Duranzo Drive in Hacienda Heights. Tran alleges the  sidewalk was in a dangerous condition due to the alleged negligence of  Defendant County of Los Angeles (the County). On January 29, 2024, Tran filed a complaint  against the County and Does 1-20, alleging a single cause of action for  premises liability. On March 7, 2024, the County filed an answer to  Tran’s Complaint. On May  16, 2024, the County filed the present motion. A hearing on the County’s motion  is set for June 20, 2024. A case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to  File Proof of Service are set for June 24, 2024. ANALYSIS The  County seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Fernando Martinez-Zamilpa,  Estella Zamilpa, and Roes 1-20 that alleges (1) equitable indemnity/express  indemnity, (2) comparative fault/contribution, and (3) declaratory relief. For  the following reasons, the Court GRANTS the County’s motion. Legal  Standard Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), a party is entitled  to “file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint  or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer  to the complaint or cross-complaint.” Furthermore, “[a]ny other cross-complaint  may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 428.50, subd. (b).) If a cross-compliant is not filed within these  guidelines, it may only be filed with leave of the court, who may grant it “in  the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) A  cross-complaint is compulsory when a related cause of action existed at the  time of serving the defendant’s answer to the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §  426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990)  221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) A “‘[r]elated cause of action’ means a cause of  action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of  transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges  in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).) Leave must be  granted to file a compulsory cross-complaint when the defendant is acting in  good faith.(See Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) “[W]hat  constitutes ‘good faith’—or lack of it—under Code of Civil Procedure Section  426.50 must be determined in light of and in conformity with the liberality  conferred upon the trial courts by the section and by prior law. … [T]his  principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in  order to support a denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this  section.”(Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980)  114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902.) A determination of bad faith may be premised on  “substantial injustice or prejudice” to the opposing party.  (Id., at  p. 903; see also Gherman v. Colburn¿(1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 560, fn. 9  [stating leave was properly denied where defendant’s motion “was merely a  tactical strategic maneuver to deprive plaintiffs of a right to a jury  trial”].) Discussion In  this case, the County’s counsel states Martinez-Zamilpa and Zamilpa are the  owners of the property adjacent to the sidewalk where Tran was allegedly  injured. (Kadomatsu Decl., ¶ 5.) In April 2024 after the County answered Tran’s  Complaint, the County discovered Martinez-Zamilpa and Zamilpa had made  modifications to the sidewalk at issue. (Kadomatsu Decl., ¶ 4.) As a result,  the County now contends they are liable for the condition of the sidewalk.  (Kadomatsu Decl., ¶ 6.) Based on these allegations, the court finds the County  has established good cause to file a cross-complaint. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS the County’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the County’s motion for  leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED. The Cross-Complaint  submitted with the declaration of the County’s counsel is to be filed  separately forthwith.