 Case Number:  22STCV21561    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



STEVE HOFFMAN, TRUSTEE OF THE KARL
  AND PEARL HOFFMAN FAMILY TRUST, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV21561
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendant Charter Communications, Inc. d/b/a Spectrum
(“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff STEVE HOFFMAN, TRUSTEE OF THE KARL AND
PEARL HOFFMAN FAMILY TRUST (“Plaintiff”), both in his capacity as a trustee and
his capacity as a person most knowledgeable (“PMK”). Defendant also requests
certain document productions.  Defendant
seeks as sanctions attorney’s fees in the total amounts of $13,000.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s
depositions in their entirety.  The Court
GRANTS Defendant’s motions to compel document production in their entirety.  Defendant shall produce the deponents and
documents within two weeks of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for sanctions IN PART.
Plaintiff shall pay $5,500.00 in sanctions to Defendant’s counsel within 30
days of the issuance of this order.
 
Defendant also sought relief relating to the trial date in
this matter.  The Court will discuss the
schedule of this case with the parties at the hearing.
 
Background
 
This is an action for trespass and nuisance. Plaintiff filed
suit over Defendant’s installation of certain internet wiring and internet
boxes on Plaintiff’s properties at 301 and 309 N. Sycamore Avenue, Los Angeles,
CA 90036 (together, the “Properties”).
 
Plaintiff filed this action on July 5, 2022. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which alleges (1)
trespass; and (2) nuisance.
 
An informal discovery conference (“IDC”) was held on
November 30, 2023. Pursuant to the resulting agreement, Defendant was required
to provide for deposition 13 PMK and custodian of records (“COR”) witnesses by
December 31, 2023.
 
On March 8, 2024, Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s depositions
for March 27, 2024 (for Plaintiff’s general deposition) and March 29, 2024 (for
Plaintiff’s PMK deposition). Plaintiff objected that he would not be available
on those dates. Defendant attempted to meet and confer, but the parties were
unable to agree to deposition dates.
 
Defendant filed this motions on April 12, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an omnibus opposition to both motions. Defendant filed a reply in support
of each motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery…by taking in California the
oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. The person
deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or private
corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) “Except as provided in subdivision (a) of Section
2025.280 the process by which a nonparty is required to provide discovery is a
deposition subpoena.” (Code Civ. Proc., §2020.010, subd. (b)). “A deposition
subpoena may command any of the following: …. (c)The attendance and the
testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things, under
Article 5 (commencing with Section 2020.510).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
 
“If the deponent is an organization, the subpoena shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. The subpoena shall also advise the organization of its duty to make
the designation of employees or agents who will attend the deposition, as
described in Section 2025.230.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.310, subd. (e).)
 
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served
fails to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).) 
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)
This motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
            The
parties’ respective positions can be found in their filings, including the
separate statements. The Court’s rulings on each request are set forth below.
 
Deposition
 
            Defendant’s
deposition notice appears valid.
 
            Plaintiff
raises two arguments in opposition. First, Plaintiff argues that he was
unavailable on the noticed dates. If this is the issue, Plaintiff had the
responsibility to meet and confer in good faith to set dates on which he was
available. The evidence in the record indicates that Plaintiff’s counsel did
not respond to some of Defendant’s attempts to communicate and set mutually
agreeable deposition dates.
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has improperly refused to provide the 13 PMK
and COR witnesses agreed to at the IDC. This may be true, and if so, Plaintiff
may move to compel their depositions. However, Defendant’s alleged failure to
engage in the discovery process in good faith does not excuse Plaintiff’s
failure to engage in the discovery process in good faith.
 
            The
Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel both depositions.
 
Document Production
 
Plaintiff raised the same objections to the document
production as to the depositions. The Court orders that Plaintiff comply with Defendant’s
Requests for Production.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendant. Because the
Court finds that these motions are not baseless, and in fact grants the motion,
the Court denies sanctions.
 
Defendant requests sanctions of attorney’s fees in the total
amounts of $12,250.00.
 
Defendant requests an hourly rate of $250.00 per hour for
Roxanne Crocket. The Court finds this rate to be reasonable.
 
Defendant requests 25 hours for one motion and 27 hours for
another.  The Court reduces the time
awarded to 11 hours per motion, or 22 hours total. The Court awards a total of
$5,500.00 in sanctions to Defendant.
 
The Court denies the request for evidentiary sanctions.