 Case Number:  23STCV24992    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PINEAPPLE VENTURES, INC, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PNPLXPRESS, INC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV24992
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Plaintiffs Pineapple Ventures, Inc. (“Ventures”) and
Pineapple Consolidated, Inc. (“Consolidated”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move
to compel Defendant Joshua Eisenberg to execute certain documents pursuant to a
settlement agreement in this case. Plaintiffs also request $17,755.64 in costs
and attorney’s fees.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to enforce the
settlement.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees and
costs in the amount of $17,755.64. Eisenberg shall pay this amount to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on October 12, 2023 against
Defendants Eisenberg and PNPLXPRESS, Inc. (“PXI”) (collectively, “Defendants”),
raising claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) unfair business practices; (4) injunctive relief; (5)
declaratory relief; (6) commercial misappropriation of name and likeness; (7)
common law misappropriation; (8) interference with contractual relations; and
(9) unfair competition and false advertising.
 
On January 30, 2024, the Court dismissed this action
pursuant to a settlement (the “Settlement”) between the parties.  The parties memorialized the settlement in a
written agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”)
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion. Defendants
filed an opposition and Plaintiffs filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 664.6, subd. (a).)
            
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
“The court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except [where an
action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed pursuant to a settlement of
the case], the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who
recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may also
determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (b).)
 
 
Discussion
 
            The
Court quotes several relevant provisions of the Settlement Agreement below. For
the sake of readability, the Court uses the names “Eisenberg” and “Ortega” with
their regular spelling, rather than in all caps as in the Settlement Agreement.  
 
The Settlement Agreement requires that Eisenberg execute
“any corporate governance agreements, regulatory documents, and/or other
definitive agreements that may be required to cancel his interest in PXI in
favor of a new majority owner.” (Feinstein Decl., Ex. A (“Settlement Agreement”),
§ 3.4.) It further provides that Eisenberg shall 
 
fully cooperate
in the replacement of himself as the majority owner upon PXI’s application for
provision licensing renewal and the annual permit application through the
Department of Cannabis Control (DCC), inclusive of execution of any corporate
governance agreements, regulatory documents, and/or other definitive agreements
that may be required to cancel his interest in PXI in favor of a new majority
owner.  [Consolidated] and/or [Jaime]
Ortega shall cause PXI to apply for prenewal provisional licensing substituting
out Eisenberg as the social equity licensee in favor of a new social equity
licensee for PXI on or before March 31, 2024 and shall provide a copy of the
application to Eisenberg within one (1) calendar day of the filing.
 
(Settlement Agreement, §
3.4.A.)  Importantly for purposes of this
motion, the Settlement Agreement states: 
“The transfer paperwork shall be prepared and filed for PXI with the DCC
and LADCR in [Consolidated’s] and Ortega’s absolute discretion but with
Eisenberg’s absolute cooperation without further input from Eisenberg.”  (Settlement Agreement, § 3.4.E., emphasis
added)  “Once the transition is complete
with the LADCR and DCC, Eisenberg shall retain the right to apply for a new
cannabis license under a different corporate entity and in a location that does
not compete with the current location.” 
(Ibid.)
 
            Parties
to the Settlement are entitled to seek specific performance. (Settlement
Agreement, § 9.) The Settlement Agreement is completely integrated and cannot
be altered orally. (Settlement Agreement, § 10.)
 
            Plaintiff
sent Eisenberg several documents required by the California Department of
Cannabis Control (“DCC”) and the City of Los Angeles Department of Cannabis
Regulation (“DCR”). Eisenberg refused to complete the forms.
 
            Defendants
attempt to introduce extrinsic evidence to argue that there is a better way to
transfer the cannabis license. However, Defendants do not contend that the
Settlement is ambiguous.  Moreover, the
Settlement is an integrated agreement. 
 
            The
Settlement is unambiguous. Eisenberg does not have discretion to suggest an
alternate process for the transfer under the Settlement. Whether a better
process exists is not material – the parties have agreed that Plaintiffs shall
control the means of the license transfer. 

 
            Eisenberg
does not ground any of his arguments in the contract language.  He does not explain how his assertions can be
squared with the contract language.  He
does not explain how he could prevail in his desire for a different transfer
mechanism when the contract expressly states that the transfer paperwork shall
be in Consolidated’s “absolute discretion but with Eisenberg’s absolute
cooperation without further input from Eisenberg.”  (Settlement Agreement, § 3.4.E.)
 
            The
Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion to compel compliance.
 
            Attorney’s Fees and Costs
 
The Settlement provides for attorney’s fees and costs on
enforcement. Plaintiffs request $17,755.64 in costs and fees.
 
Plaintiffs request hourly rates of $842.66 for Andrew Holmes
and $726.28 for Patrick Chesney. The Court finds these rates to be reasonable
based on counsels’ experience.
 
Plaintiffs request 18.9 hours for Holmes and 2.4 hours for
Chesney. The Court finds these time expenditures to be reasonable.
 
Plaintiffs request $86.30 in costs related to the motion and
reply. The Court finds these costs to be reasonable.
 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for costs and fees in
full.
 
 