  Case Number:  20STCV45192    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JEFFREY QIUHONG YANG, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GLOBAL WIN CAPITAL CORPORATION, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV45192
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Global Win Capital
Corporation (“Defendant”) moves for issue sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, and
monetary sanctions in the amount of $46,242.15 against Plaintiff Jeffrey
Qiuhong Yang (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s requests for issue and
evidentiary sanctions as MOOT.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions,
subject to argument as to the reasonableness of the hours claimed by Defendant.

 
Background
 
Plaintiff is Defendant’s former Chief Financial Officer.
Plaintiff alleges that he was terminated in retaliation for his whistleblower
complaints. Defendant alleges that it terminated Plaintiff for incurring
unapproved unreasonable business expenses.
 
On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit against
Defendant, stating claims for whistleblower retaliation and wrongful
termination. Plaintiff seeks, among other remedies, back and front pay damages.
 
On January 15, 2021, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiff. The operative cross-complaint is now the First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), which alleges that Plaintiff committed fraud and
incurred unreasonable business expenses.
 
On December 14, 2023, the Court reopened fact discovery
through April 15, 2024 for the limited purpose of seeking supplemental
information and documents regarding Plaintiff’s post-termination employment,
compensation, and benefits by way of the following:
 
1. Defendant shall
be permitted to serve a demand on Plaintiff to supplement his responses and
production to Request for Production Nos. 120, 135, and 136, Special
Interrogatories Nos. 11 through 17, and Form Interrogatory—Employment No. 210.6
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2031.050 and 2030.070;
2. Defendant shall
be permitted to seek to compel Plaintiff to comply with his prior agreement to
permit the inspection of documents responsive to Request for Production No. 120
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.320; and
3. Defendant shall
be permitted to serve Plaintiff’s current employer, Amcor, with a subpoena
seeking Plaintiff’s personnel and payroll records dating back to May 2018 and
October 2019.
 
The Court based this order in part on the fact that
Plaintiff had failed to produce almost any compensation records from his new
job, despite having indicated that he was in fact employed at Amcor and earning
money there.
 
Plaintiff subsequently produced payroll records for Amcor
from January 2020 to December 2023, but did not provide documents or
information relating to stock options that he stated in his deposition that he
had received, nor did Plaintiff produce any documents reflecting his long-term
incentive benefits plan with Amcor, which Plaintiff’s expert claimed he needed
in order to evaluate Plaintiff’s damages. Defendant also objected that
Plaintiff’s payroll records did not appear to include all the allowances and benefits
that Plaintiff received.
 
On March 12, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to
compel further production, ordering Defendant to send Plaintiff a letter
indicating what discovery items it still needed from him. The Court ordered
that Plaintiff produce those items provide a declaration, under penalty of
perjury, indicating that the requested items did not exist.
 
Despite the Court’s order, Plaintiff provided neither
documents nor declaration as to a number of items, including the amounts of
certain bonus awards and incentive plans he benefited from. The parties engaged
in an extensive meet-and-confer process regarding the discovery.
 
On April 16, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for
sanctions. 
 
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff withdrew his claim for back pay
from the February 1, 2020, the date he took the job at Amcor.
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Where a party misuses the discovery process, courts have
discretion to impose terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(g), 2030.290(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative
Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010(d), (g).)        
 
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a).) 
 
Issue sanctions may be imposed “ordering that designated
facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim
of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The
court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (b).) 
 
Evidence sanctions may be imposed “by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (c).) 
 
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required answers. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County
(1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) Lack of diligence may be deemed willful where
the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787.) The party
who failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that
the failure was not willful. Id. at 788.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his claim for damages beginning on
the date he started employment at Amcor moots the motion as to issue and evidentiary
sanctions. The Court recognizes that Defendant argued in reply that the issue
is not moot because Plaintiff is claiming some additional item of damages, but
Defendant does not explain or support how that relates to any outstanding
discovery.
 
However, the Court finds that there is good cause to issue
monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff’s
compensation at Amcor has now been the subject of three discovery motions in
this case, concluding with Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his claim for damages
following his hiring at Amcor. Plaintiff repeatedly failed to produce documents
regarding various forms of compensation – documents that he, as an employee at
Amcor, would have a right to obtain. Plaintiff’s compensation records would
have been critical to the evaluation of Plaintiff’s damages, including by
Plaintiff’s own expert. Plaintiff’s argument that he had only recently come
into possession of the documents in question is unavailing. Plaintiff knew that
Defendant would request documents on his compensation following Defendant’s
motion to reopen discovery, and knew of the specific categories of documents
that would be requested. By the time Plaintiff withdrew his claim, he had had
over a month after the Court granted the motion to compel in which to
provide employment documents that he has provided no reason to believe were not
readily available to him.
 
            Defendant
requests $46,242.15 in attorney’s fees.
 
            Defendant
requests hourly rates of $1,190 for Melanie Walker, $973.25 for Andrea Ortega,
and $1,032.75 for Akhil Sheth. The Court finds these rates to be reasonable.
 
            Defendant
provides the billing sheet giving rise to its fees in a declaration attached to
its reply brief. (Supp. Decl. Walker ¶ 7, Ex. 3.) Given the lengthy
meet-and-confer process and the unusual nature of the issue and evidentiary
sanctions which Defendant sought prior to Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his claim,
the Court is inclined to find that Defendant’s counsels’ time expenditures were
reasonable. However, because Defendant only provided this information as of the
reply brief, Plaintiff will be permitted to argue the reasonableness of the
hours that Defendant claims before the Court determines a fee award. 
            