 Case Number:  22STCV13243    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA CRISTINA SOTO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
REAL TIME STAFFING SERVICES, LLC.,
  et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV13243
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff Maria Cristina Soto (“Plaintiff”) moves for leave
to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). Plaintiff seeks to add causes of
action for (1) violation of meal and rest breaks; (2) violation of Business and
Professions Code, sections 17200 et seq.; and (3) failure to pay wages due.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion as to Plaintiff’s claims for
violation of meal and rest breaks and violation of Business and Professions
Code, sections 17200.
 
The Court DENIES the motion as to Plaintiff’s claim for
failure to pay wages.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 20, 2022 against Defendant
Real Time Staffing Servies, LLC d/b/a Select Staffing (“Select Staffing”), St.
Clair Plastics, Inc. (“St. Clair”), and Novel Alamilla. Plaintiff seeks relief
against Select Staffing for (1) gender based harassment; (2) sexual harassment;
(3) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment; (4) failure to correct
and remedy discrimination and harassment; (5) retaliation for complaints of
discrimination and harassment; (6) violation of whistle-blowing law; (7)
wrongful termination; (8) hostile work environment; (9) intentional infliction
of emotional distress; (10) negligent infliction of emotional distress; and
(11) failure to permit inspection of personnel and payroll records in violation
of Labor Code section 1198.5.
 
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion. Select
Staffing and St. Clair each filed an opposition. Plaintiff did not file a
reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
A complainant may obtain leave from the trial court to amend
their pleading beyond the number of amendments allowed under Code of Civil
Procedure section 472 (a) by filing a noticed motion. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324.) The motion must be accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
why the request was not made earlier.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 (b).)
 
“Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of
trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may
allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order.”¿(Code Civ.
Proc., § 576.) In the absence of a showing of prejudice from the opposing side,
the trial court ordinarily lacks discretion to deny a motion to amend a
pleading. (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960,
965.)
 
Discussion
 
Compliance with Rule 3.1324
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to state the effect
of the amendment. To the contrary, Plaintiff has stated the causes of action
she intends to add, and has provided a copy of the proposed FAC and a redlined
copy.
 
Plaintiff has similarly explained why amendment is necessary
and proper. “If discovery and investigation develop factual grounds justifying
a timely amendment to a pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.” (Mabie
v. Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596.) 
 
However, the Court notes that the proposed amended complaint
does not contain a claim for failure to pay wages.  The motion is denied as to such a claim for
this and other reasons stated below.
 
Delay
 
Select Staffing and St. Clair argue that Plaintiff unduly
delayed to amend the complaint. However, it appears that the delay in Plaintiff
discovering and asserting the wage claims is primarily the result of Defendants’
actions. Plaintiff requested her time sheets in written discovery in April
2023. Real Time objected and declined to provide them. St. Clair claimed that
it could not locate any relevant documents and stated that it was conducting a
search and would promptly furnish responsive documents. On January 13, 2024,
Plaintiff discovered in a deposition that Defendants did possess Plaintiff’s
time sheets. On March 27, 2024, after Plaintiff filed a motion to compel
production of the time sheets, Defendants agreed to produce them, almost a year
after Plaintiff’s initial request. 
 
Although Plaintiff was likely aware earlier whether she was
denied breaks based on direct experience, Plaintiff has already alleged that
she was prevented from taking breaks. (Complaint ¶ 17.) Thus, Defendants are
not prejudiced by that delay.
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Claims for violation of the UCL have a 4-year statute of
limitations. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17208.) Plaintiff was terminated in
June, 2020. Plaintiff’s UCL claim is thus not time-barred. Claims for unpaid
wages and missed breaks generally have a 3-year statute of limitations. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (a).) Plaintiff argues, relying primarily on
unpublished cases, that the UCL extends the statute of limitations for her
other claims because the UCL claim can overlap with the factual allegations of
other claims. This is not correct – the UCL claim is simply a different cause
of action that may be based on the same facts. Plaintiff cites Murphy v.
Kenneth Cole Productions, Inc. (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1094, 1113 in support of
the proposition that joining a wage claim with a UCL claim bestows a 4-year
statute of limitations on the wage claim. No part of the cited case states as
such.
 
“[I]f an amendment is sought after the statute of
limitations has run, the amended complaint will be deemed filed as of the date
of the original complaint provided recovery is sought in both pleadings on the
same general set of facts.” (Amaral v. Cintas Corporation No. 2 (2008)
163 Cal.App.4th 1157, 1199.) “A new cause of action in an amended complaint is
held to relate back to the earlier pleaded claims if the later cause of action
‘(1) rest[s] on the same general set of facts, (2) involve[s] the same
injury, and (3) refer[s] to the same instrumentality, as the
original one.’” (Brumley v. FDCC California, Inc. (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 312, 323 [emphasis in original].)
 
Plaintiff already alleged in her Complaint that her manager
interrupted her rest and bathroom breaks. (Complaint ¶ 17.) This allegation
appears to be part of the basis for Plaintiff’s discrimination and harassment
claims. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s FAC contradicts this allegation by
stating that Plaintiff was not provided with breaks. Because the FAC does not
allege that Plaintiff was denied breaks for the entirety of her employment, it
is not contradictory. Defendants thus had adequate notice that Plaintiff could
raise a claim for denial of breaks.
 
Plaintiff has not, however, identified any similar basis on
which her wage claim relates back. To the extent that she wishes to allege wage
loss as a result of termination, that does not relate back to the allegations
in the complaint.  To the contrary, the
statute of limitations begins to run from termination and has already expired..
 
The Court therefore grants leave to amend as to the UCL and
break claims, but not the wage claim. 