 Case Number:  22TRCV00201    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California 
County of
  Los Angeles 
Southwest
  District 
Torrance
  Dept. M 




 
MICHAEL CAMPBELL,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff, 


 
Case No.: 
 


 
22TRCV00201 




 
vs. 


 


 
[Tentative] RULING 
 




 
PATRICIA THORNTON, 


 
 
 
Defendant. 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                          December
13, 2023 
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff
Michael Campbell 
 
Responding
Party:                   None 
Motion to
Approve Sale of Property 
 
The court
considered the moving papers. The matter was called for hearing on
November 28, 2023.  Counsel discussed the
status of the case, reviewed the court’s tentative ruling, and the hearing was
continued.
RULING 
The motion is GRANTED.  See order. 
BACKGROUND 
On March
16, 2022, plaintiff Michael Campbell filed a complaint against defendant
Patricia Thornton for (1) breach of contract, (2) misrepresentation, (3) to
establish resulting trust – Civ. Code §§ 3367, 3375, (4) establish a
constructive trust, and (5) partition. 
On March
24, 2022, plaintiff filed a request for entry of default. 
On
November 9, 2022, the court entered an interlocutory judgment for partition of
real property. 
 On May 8, 2023, defendant filed a motion to
void and vacate interlocutory judgment for partition of real property, which
was denied. 
On October
12, 2023, non-party Chike Nweke filed the Partition Referee’s report of sale of
real property. 
 
LEGAL
AUTHORITY 
The court shall order that
property be sold and the proceeds be divided in accordance with the parties’
interests in the property as determined in the interlocutory judgment when sale
and division of the proceeds would be more equitable than division of the property.  CCP §872.820(b).  In doing so, the court may appoint a referee
and take into account his report.  Id.  The referee must give notice of the sale of
property according to the court’s order, with a description of the property,
the time and place of sale, and a statement of the principal terms of sale.  CCP §§873.640, 873.650. 
After a sale of property,
the referee shall provide a report to the court that contains a description of
the property sold to each purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the sale price;
the terms and conditions of the sale and the security, if any, taken; any
amounts payable to lienholders; a statement as to contractual or other
arrangements or conditions as to agents’ commissions; any determination and
recommendation as to opening and closing public and private ways, roads,
streets, and easements; and other material facts relevant to the sale and the
confirmation proceeding.  CCP §873.710. 
The referee, purchaser, or
any party may move to confirm or set aside the sale.  CCP §873.720. 
The court shall examine the report and witnesses and may confirm the
sale notwithstanding a variance from the prescribed terms of sale if to do so
will be beneficial to the parties and will not result in substantial prejudice
to persons interested in the sale.  CCP §873.730(a)-(b).  The court may vacate the sale and direct that
a new sale be made if it determines that (1) the proceedings were unfair or
notice of sale was not properly given, or (2) the sale price is
disproportionate to the value of the property. 
CCP §873.730(c). 
Upon confirmation of a sale,
the court shall order the referee to execute a conveyance or other instrument
of transfer, to collect the proceeds, take security, and perform other acts
required to consummate the sale, and the order may direct the referee
concerning the distribution, deposit, or securing of sale deposits and sale
proceeds.  CCP §873.750. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff requests that the court approve the sale of the
real property pursuant to CCP §873.720 on the grounds that the sale of the
property has been signed between the parties and a buyer and that the Partition
Referee has filed a Report of Sale. 
            Partition referee, Chike Nweke, filed a report following
the sale of real property.  The real property
is located on 8201 S. 8th Avenue, Inglewood, CA 90305.  Both parties met with the referee and decided
to conduct the sale via private sale, through a listing on the Multiple Listing
Service.  The parties received five
offers and accepted the offer from Journey Investment Inc., for a sales price
of $700,000.  The offer was an all-cash
offer, with no appraisal or loan contingencies and a 30 day escrow.  Additionally, the report indicates that the
amounts payable to lienholders is to be determined and also indicates the
statement as to agent’s commissions is a total of 6% of sales price per
interlocutory judgment.  The report also
states that the determination as to opening and closing of public or private
ways was “none.”  Lastly, the report
states that once the buyer has removed all contingencies, the buyer agrees to
authorize Escrow Holder to release $20,000 from the initial deposit to sellers
once escrow has first verified to buyer in writing that all sellers disclosures
have been signed by sellers and delivered to escrow, and title is clear to
close minus buyer’s funds before the release of the $20,000.  See Partition Referee’s Report.
Plaintiff
contends that the sales agreement was voluntarily agreed to by both parties,
the price and conditions are fair based on the market analysis and the
condition of the property, and a number of offers were received, with the
current offer being the highest offer for the property. 
            The court examined the partition referee’s report filed
on October 12, 2023, and finds that the partition referee has complied with CCP
§873.710 and that the sale price for the property and terms and conditions of
the sale are fair and reasonable.
            The motion is GRANTED. 
The sale is CONFIRMED.  See order.
Moving party is to give
notice. 