 Case Number:  23TRCV00137    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
BRANDON
  REYNOLDS, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00137




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ZARNA
  SURTI, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 13,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Law Offices of
Jacob Emrani and Vicken Antounian, Esq., for plaintiff Cashmine Crawford
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The court orders that the attorney is relieved
as counsel of record for plaintiff Cashmine Crawford, effective upon the filing
of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On January 17, 2023, plaintiffs
Brandon Reynolds and Cashmine Crawford filed a  complaint against Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti
for negligence and motor vehicle negligence based on an incident that occurred
on January 16, 2021 in Inglewood. 
Trial is set for October 23, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Law
Offices of Jacob Emrani and Vicken Antounian, seeks to be relieved as counsel
for plaintiff Cashmine Crawford.
Counsel Antounian states in his declaration
that there has been a “fundamental breakdown in communication between the
Plaintiff and her attorneys of record” to the extent that counsel is unable to
continue to represent plaintiff without violating the Rules of Professional
Conduct.  Counsel states also that
“[u]pon careful review of all internal files for this matter, unable to
determine or confirm that Cashmine Crawford retained the attorneys of record,
Law Offices of Jacob Emrani.”  Counsel
has been unable to confirm that the address is current or to locate a more
current address for the client after making the following efforts:  mailing motion papers to the client’s last
known address, return receipt requested, calling the client’s last known
telephone number, contacting the other plaintiff, Brandon Reynolds, and
performing a skip trace through On-Call Legal.
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
The motion is GRANTED.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
BRANDON
  REYNOLDS, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00137




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
ZAMA
  SURTI, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 13,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Zarna Surti and
Tarun Surti
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Brandon Reynolds 
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories – General (Set One)
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Specially-Prepared Interrogatories (Set One)
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Inspection and Production (Set One) 
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motions are DEEMED MOOT.
Plaintiff Brandon Reynolds and his
attorney of record Vicken Antounian, Esq., jointly and severally, are ordered
to pay sanctions in the amount of $820 in total for three motions, within 30
days.
BACKGROUND
On January 17, 2023, plaintiffs
Brandon Reynolds and Cashmine Crawford filed a  complaint against Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti
for negligence and motor vehicle negligence based on an incident that occurred
on January 16, 2021 in Inglewood. 
On November 2, 2023, the court
granted defendants’ motions to compel written discovery as to plaintiff
Cashmine Crawford and awarded sanctions in favor of defendants in the amount of
$500.
Trial is set for October 23, 2024.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti request an order compelling plaintiff Brandon
Reynolds to respond further to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2.8, 6.5,
6.6, 6.7, 7.1, 8.4, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8, 17.1, 20.2, 20.3, 20.4, 20.5, 20.6, 20.7,
20.8, 20.9, 20.10, and 20.11, Specially-Prepared Interrogatories, Set One, No.
3, and Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, No. 6. 
            On June
16, 2023, defendants served plaintiff Brandon Reynolds with written
discovery.  On August 14, plaintiff
served responses.  On August 22, 2023,
defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to plaintiff’s counsel as to what
counsel believed to be deficient responses and requested supplemental responses
within ten days.  On September 11, 2023,
as a follow up, defense counsel sent an email to plaintiff’s counsel requesting
clarification whether further responses would be forthcoming or if plaintiff
needed an extension.  In response,
plaintiff’s counsel requested an extension and defense counsel provided an
extension to September 25, 2023, in exchange for a two week extension to file
motions to compel further responses to October 12, 2023.  On September 29, 2023, having received no
responses, defense counsel sent an email inquiring as to status and left a
voicemail with plaintiff’s counsel.  On
October 2, 2023, defense counsel contacted plaintiff’s counsel and left another
message and an email.  On October 4,
2023, defense counsel sent written correspondence to plaintiff’s counsel
memorializing the meet and confer efforts and reiterated her proposal to
contact the court to obtain an IDC date. 
Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email stating that plaintiff would not be
providing further responses.
            In
opposition, plaintiff contends that he served supplemental responses on
November 3, 2023 and thus the motions are moot. 
Plaintiff also explains that “[d]ue to persistent personnel changes at
Plaintiff’s attorneys’ office at that time, the responses were slow in
production” and “the very high-volume nature of Plaintiff’s Counsel’s practice
made turning out timely discovery responses very challenging in this particular
instance.”  Plaintiff asserts that
plaintiff’s counsel “made every diligent effort to get complete, verified
answers from the Plaintiff but had difficulty locating the Plaintiff.”
            The
court finds that the motions are MOOT as plaintiff has served supplemental
responses.
Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the
misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the
court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d),
2031.310(h).
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.” 
            Defendants
request monetary sanctions against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney Vicken
Antounian in the amount of $2742.72 in total for the three motions.  The court finds that sanctions are warranted
and that $820 ($160/hr. x 4 hrs., $180 filing fees) is a reasonable amount to
be imposed against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record in total for
the three motions.
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.