  Case Number:  22IWUD02358    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
6232
  MANCHESTER LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22IWUD02358




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ORB
  TERTIUS LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         December 13,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff 6232 Manchester LLC
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of Person Most Qualified for Orb Tertius, LLC
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
BACKGROUND
On November 29, 2022, plaintiff
6232 Manchester LLC filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Orb Tertius
LLC based on a three-day notice to quit.
            On January 25, 2023, the court
(Inglewood) overruled defendant’s demurrer.
            On March 1, 2023, the court
(Inglewood) grants defendant’s motion to compel further responses and
production to defendant’s request for production of documents.
            On March 22, 2023, the court
(Inglewood) granted defense counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
            On May 1, 2023, defendant filed a
notice of association of counsel.
            On May 31, 2023, the court
(Inglewood) granted plaintiff’s consolidated motion to compel responses to
interrogatories and request for production of documents, set two and deemed the
requests for admission, set one, admitted. 
The court denied plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
            On June 16, 2023, the case was
reclassified to Dept. M.
On July 23, 2023, the court granted
defendant’s motion for leave to withdraw and to amend defendant’s responses to
requests for admission and relief from order.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)       The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)       The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
CCP
§2025.230 states:  “If the deponent named
is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event,
the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
6232 Manchester LLC requests an order compelling defendant Orb Tertius LLC to produce
its person most qualified for deposition.
            Plaintiff
asserts that on July 7, 2023, plaintiff served on defendant a notice of
deposition of person most qualified.  The
deposition was scheduled for August 7, 2023. 
Plaintiff explains that the parties agreed to reschedule the
deposition.  On September 29, 2023,
plaintiff served an amended notice of deposition for November 14, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed that the
deposition would proceed on November 14. 
Defendant did not appear. 
Plaintiff took a notice of non-appearance.  See Blake Slater decl.
            There
is no opposition.
The court
finds that the deposition notice was properly noticed, and that defendant did
not serve a valid objection under CCP §2025.410 or proceed with the deposition
on November 14.  However, the motion does
not comply with CCP
§2025.450(b) because it does not set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production of documents described in the deposition notice and
is not accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating that plaintiff’s
counsel contacted the deponent to inquire about the non-appearance. 
            The
motion is thus DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.   
            Sanctions
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent
is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. CCP §2025.450(g)(1).
Under CCP §2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Under CCP §2023.010,
an example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $2700 in attorney’s fees and $1500 in costs
against defendant.  The court declines to
award sanctions in light of the ruling on the motion. 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.