  Case Number:  23CHCP00250    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO COMPEL  DEPOSITION  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCP00250    Motion filed: 6/29/23   MOVING PARTY: Petitioner Interinsurance Exchange of  the Automobile Club (“Petitioner”)[1] RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent William H. Bennett, Jr.  (“Respondent”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling Respondent  to appear in person for a deposition  on a date and at a time certain to be set by  the court. Petitioner also seeks $1,246.45 in  monetary sanctions against Respondent.   TENTATIVE RULING: The  motion is continued. The Court orders that the parties further meet and confer,  in person or telephonically, to discuss all outstanding discovery issues,  including the taking of Respondent’s deposition.   BACKGROUND   This is an insurance action in  which Petitioner, an insurance company, seeks to compel insured Respondent’s  deposition in the parties’ dispute of Respondent’s underinsured motorist  claims.   On 11/11/22, Petitioner served a  deposition notice for Respondent’s deposition to be taken on 2/14/23. (Ex. A to  Decl. of William O. Woodland.) On 2/13/23, Petitioner served a Notice of  Continuance of Deposition for Respondent’s deposition to be taken on 3/23/23.  (Ex. B to Woodland Decl.) “Although Claimant appeared for the deposition, he  did so via cell phone and the transmission was of poor-quality causing counsel  to terminate the deposition and reschedule the proceeding for another day.”  (Woodland Decl. ¶ 4.)   On 3/27/23, Petitioner again  noticed Respondent’s deposition, to be taken on 4/20/23. (Ex. C to Woodland  Decl.) Respondent failed to appear on the deposition date, and a Certificate of  Non-Appearance was taken. (Ex. F to Woodland Decl.) While the parties reached a  settlement on 4/28/23, Petitioner’s counsel declares that Respondent is now  represented by new counsel, and the parties have not communicated since the  change of attorney. (Woodland Decl. ¶¶ 7–8.)[2]   On 6/13/23, Petitioner filed its Petition  to Establish Case Number in Uninsured/Underinsured Motorist Action. It appears  the proof of service is defective: indicates electronic service but does not  list the email addresses served.  On  6/29/23, Petitioner filed the instant motion to compel Respondent’s deposition.  No opposition has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   A.     Motion to Compel  Deposition   A party may, upon proper written  notice, obtain discovery by taking the oral deposition of any natural person,  organization, partnership, association, or governmental agency. (Code Civ.  Proc. §§ 2025.010, 2025.220.) A party deponent can be required to attend a  deposition by service of a deposition notice on the party's attorney. (Code Civ.  Proc. § 2025.280, subd. (a).)   “If, after service of a deposition  notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or  employee of a party, … without having served a valid objection …, fails to  appear for examination, … the party giving the notice may move for an order  compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for  inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd.  (a).)               1.      Meet and Confer   A motion to compel a deposition must  (1) “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for  inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice;” and (2) “be accompanied by a meet  and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to  attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored  information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration  stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the  nonappearance.” (Id. at subd. (b) [emphasis added].)   Here, Petitioner’s counsel makes no  representations that he has attempted to meet and confer with Respondent’s  counsel regarding the issues raised in the instant motion, nor a declaration  that Petitioner has contacted Respondent to inquire about the nonappearance.  Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has failed to satisfy the  meet-and-confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450,  subdivision (b)(2).)   Based on the foregoing, the Court orders that the  parties further meet and confer, in person or telephonically, to discuss all  outstanding discovery issues. // // B.      Sanctions   If the Court grants a motion to compel a deposition,  it “shall impose a monetary sanction … in favor of the party who noticed the  deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is  affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd.  (g)(1).)   Here, Petitioner requests that the  Court impose a monetary sanction against Respondent in the amount of $1,246.45,  “based upon two unsuccessful attempts to take Claimant’s deposition leading up  to this motion.” (Woodland Decl. ¶¶ 9–10.) However, as the Court continues the  instant motion, it finds that monetary sanctions are not warranted at this  time.   CONCLUSION   The motion is continued. The Court orders that the  parties further meet and confer, in person or telephonically, to discuss all  outstanding discovery issues including the taking of Respondent’s deposition.     