 Case Number:  24STCV01587    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JORGE AYALA MENDOZA AKA GEORGE MENDOZA, an individual,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            v.
MOREHOUSE FOODS, INC., a California corporation; SOUTHEAST
  EMPLOYEE LEASING SERVICES, INC., a Florida corporation; and DOES 1 through
  20, Inclusive,
                        Defendant(s).


 Case No.:          24STCV01587
 Hearing Date:   6/13/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant
  Morehouse Foods, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiff’s
  Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Jorge Ayala
Mendoza aka George Mendoza sues Defendants Morehouse Foods, Inc., Southeast
Employee Leasing Services, Inc., and Does 1 through 20 pursuant to a January
22, 2024, Complaint alleging claims of (1) Discrimination in Violation of Gov’t
Code § 12940 et seq., (2) Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code § 12940 et
seq., (3) Failure to Prevent Discrimination, and Retaliation in Violation of
Gov’t Code § 12940(k), (4) Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive
Process in Violation of Gov’t Code § 12940 et seq., (5) Failure to Engage in a
Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation of Gov’t Code § 12940 et seq., (6)
Declaratory Judgment, (7) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy,
(8) Failure to Pay Wages (Cal. Labor Code §§ 201, 1194), (9) Failure to Provide
Meal and Rest Periods (Cal. Labor Code §§ 226.7, 512), (10) Failure to Provide
Itemized Wage and Hour Statement (Cal. Labor Code § 226, et seq., (11) Waiting
Time Penalties (Cal. Labor Code §§ 201, 203), and (12) Unfair Competition (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.).
The Fair Employment and
Housing Act (FEHA) claims arise from the following allegations. In his
employment with Morehouse Foods, first as a maintenance mechanic and then,
after an accommodation, as a sanitation worker, Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza experienced
discrimination based on his disability—a toe amputation resulting from diabetes
affecting one or more major life activities. Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza twice
asked for accommodations based on doctor’s notes imposing restrictions on
Plaintiff’s work duties. Morehouse Foods accommodated the first request,
transferring Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza from mechanic to sanitation work around
March 2022. However, after Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza made his second request for
accommodation, Morehouse Foods terminated Plaintiff’s employment on the ground
that it could not grant the accommodation, which was belied by the fact that Plaintiff
Ayala Mendoza was able to perform the essential job duties of his position or
another position “with or without accommodations,” thus amounting to a
termination and retaliation based on Plaintiff’s disability and requests for
accommodation.
The Labor Code claims
arise from allegations that Morehouse Foods engaged in conduct amounting to
various violations of Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza’s Labor Code rights, specifically
in relation to rest and meal periods, itemized wage and hour statements, and
waiting time penalties.
The unfair competition
claim is derivative of the above FEHA and Labor Code claims.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On April 23, 2024, Morehouse
Foods filed a motion to strike punitive damages allegations and a punitive
damages prayer from the Complaint at “¶¶ 36, 49, 61, 67, 75, 83, and 101, and
Prayer for Relief at ¶ 9.”
On May 31, 2024,
Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza filed an opposition to Morehouse Foods’ motion.
On June 6, 2024,
Morehouse Foods filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
Morehouse Foods’ motion
is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Strike: DENIED.
A.
Opposition Request for Judicial Notice
The
Court declines to take discretionary judicial notice of the Complaint in this
action per the request for such relief in Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza’s opposition.
(Opp’n, RJN, Ex. 1; Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b)) as unnecessary.
Documents
are only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were
made such that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885 (Lockley).) To the
extent the below analysis accepts the Complaint’s well-pleaded allegations as
true for the purposes of a motion to strike, that analysis conforms with Atwell
Island Water Dist. v. Atwell Island Water District (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th
624, 628 (Atwell), cited in the Legal Standard in subsection C below.
However, the existence of the Complaint is not in dispute, and judicial notice
is not a vehicle to accept as true the facts alleged in the Complaint. (Lockley,
supra, at p. 885.) Thus, the purpose of the request is unclear,
supporting the Court’s discretionary decision to deny taking judicial notice. 
B.
Reply Objection to Opposition Request for Judicial Notice
Morehouse
Foods’ objection is MOOT based on the determination in the preceding
subsection. 
C.
Legal Standard, Motion to Strike
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
In
analyzing a motion to strike, California courts “accept as true the
well-pleaded allegations” in the challenged pleadings, as well as “well-pleaded
allegations admitted in” the responsive “answer.” (Atwell, supra,
45 Cal.App.5th at p. 628; Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 [California courts “read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth”].)
D.
Analysis
1. Relevant Law
“In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a); College Hospital Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725 (College Hospital)
[explaining amendments requiring “despicable” conduct for malice and
oppression].)
Under
the Civil Code, “[a]n employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).) Moreover, “corporate employers[] […] may not be liable for punitive
damages unless ‘the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice [is] on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.’ [Citation.]” (White
v. Ultramar (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566, fn. 1.) 
2. Parties’ Arguments
In its motion, Morehouse Foods’ full
substantive argument reads: “… Plaintiff Complaint [sic] is based upon an
alleged failure to accommodate an injury that required modified work duty and
an ensuing termination. Certainly, this is a far cry from the ‘cruel,’ ‘unjust,’
or ‘despicable’ conduct required by C.C.P 3294. In fact, Plaintiff’s sole
attempt at alleging punitive damages entails boilerplate conclusory statements
that Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, and malice. Without more,
Plaintiff fails to show that Defendant acted with the requisite ‘despicable
conduct’ to support punitive damages.” (Mot., p. 6.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Ayala
Mendoza’s full substantive argument reads: “Plaintiff alleges multiple
intentional wrongs, not non-deliberate wrongs, which are supported by pleading
that the wrong was committed willfully or was maliciously by Defendant. The
allegations against the Defendant are more than sufficient to overcome any
pleading sufficiency argument simply based on the fact that the wrongful
conduct was committed by the Defendant’s agents and managing agents.
Importantly, Defendant ratified the conduct by failing to take action. Such
allegations are made in multiple places throughout the operative complaint.
Here, there are clearly sufficient allegations of ‘[m]alice’ given the
allegation of malicious conduct and the conscious disregard on the part of the
Defendant failing to take action.” The opposition otherwise summarizes and cites
the Complaint at paragraphs 17, 23 to 27, 29 to 32, and 36 to identify specific
factual allegations supporting punitive damages. (Opp’n, pp. 2-3 [cites], 6
[quoted language].)
In reply, Morehouse Foods argues
that the Complaint’s allegations in support of punitive damages are conclusory
and merely mimic the language of the legal standards supporting punitive
damages without sufficient factual allegations in support.
3. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza.
Allegations involving an employer’s
failure to accommodate an injury that required modified work duty and an
ensuing termination can support punitive damages. (Commodore Home Systems,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 32 Cal.3d 211, 221 [“[I]n a civil action
under the FEHA, all relief generally available in noncontractual actions,
including punitive damages, may be obtained”].)
Here, the Complaint sufficiently
alleges that when Plaintiff Ayala Mendoza requested a second accommodation in
relation to his disability, and despite the fact that Plaintiff was able to
perform his duties in his current position or another position with or without
accommodations, Morehouse Foods represented that it could not accommodate
Plaintiff and terminated Plaintiff’s employment. (Complaint, ¶¶ 26, 30.)
Such decisions—whether to
accommodate and termination—necessarily involved ratification by Morehouse
Foods decisionmakers. Thus, ratification for punitive damages is sufficiently
alleged.
Moreover, if Morehouse was able to
accommodate Plaintiff and instead terminated Plaintiff’s employment in
connection to Plaintiff being a disabled employee, such conduct could rise to,
at the least, “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others” or “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights,” where Plaintiff’s alleged rights here were
protected by the FEHA. (Code Civ. Proc., § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(2); see Colucci
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455 [substantial evidence
to support jury verdict of malice or oppression in retaliation claim based on complaints
regarding medical condition and accommodation request, although amount of
punitive damages reduced on appeal].)
The Court thus DENIES Morehouse
Foods’ motion to strike. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Morehouse Foods, Inc.’s
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED.