  Case Number:  21STCV33009    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No. 
Ohanian vs. Gardens of Paradise,
LLC, et. al., Case No. 21STCV33009
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default
 
Defendant Ben and Reef Gardens, Inc. (Defendant) moves to set
aside the default entered against it. The motion is denied.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
“The purpose of this mandatory relief
provision is to alleviate the hardship on parties who lose their day in court
due to an inexcusable failure to act by their attorneys.” (Rodriguez v. Brill (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 723.) “Section 473
is often applied liberally where the party in default moves promptly to seek
relief, and the party opposing the motion will not suffer prejudice if relief
is granted. [Citations.] In such situations ‘very slight evidence will be
required to justify a court in setting aside the default.’ [Citations.] [¶] Moreover,
because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts
in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief
from default.” (Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 681,
695.)
Plaintiff served Defendants with the summons and complaint
in this action on October 10, 2021. Defendants did not respond, and on December
9, 2021, Plaintiff filed requests for entry of default against each of the four
Defendants.
 
On December 29, 2021, counsel for Defendants, Mainak
D’Attaray, contacted counsel for Plaintiff to seek a stipulation setting aside
the defaults. (Derbarsegian Decl. ¶ 4.) Though Plaintiff’s counsel agreed and
signed the stipulation, it was rejected by the Court on January 4, 2022, for
failure to reference Defendant Ben and Reef Gardens, Inc. In the following
months, Defendants’ counsel continually delayed in properly revising and filing
the stipulation. (Derbarsegian Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) This includes filing two
subsequent stipulations that were also rejected by the Court, on January 24,
2022, and on February 8, 2022. 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that defense counsel stopped
responding to communications sometime in March 2022, until on August 5, 2022,
still with no stipulation properly entered, Defendants filed an ex parte
application seeking to set aside the defaults. (Derbarsegian Decl. ¶ 8.)
Counsel D’Attaray appeared for Defendants Gardens of Paradise, Yakovi and
Waizgen and specially appeared on behalf of moving party herein, Ben and Reef
Gardens.  The application was denied by
the Court.
 
On August 12,
2022, Defendants filed a “Stipulation to Set Aside Default” (the August 2022
Stipulation). The Court granted the stipulation on August 16 and set aside Defendant’s
default.
On December 13,
2022, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Strike Defendants’ Answers and Request for
Monetary Sanctions against Defendants, which represented that Defendants’
August 2022 Stipulation was fraudulent. On February 3, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion, struck the August 2022 Stipulation, struck Defendants’
Answer, and reinstated the entry of default against Defendants.
 
Defendant now moves to set aside the default pursuant to
Section 473’s mandatory relief provision. However, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that Defendant’s motion is untimely; relief
from default is unavailable because Defendant’s motion was filed more than six
months after the entry of default against Defendant on December 9, 2021.

Defendant argues that this motion satisfies the six-month
time limit because it was filed within six months of the Court’s February 3,
2023 Order. However, the subject of Defendant’s requested relief is the clerk’s
entry of default, not the February 2023 Order; entry of default is
an act taken by the clerk “upon written application of the plaintiff.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 585, subd. (b).) The Court’s February 2023 Order reinstated the December
9, 2021 default entered by the clerk against Defendant, but did not in itself
constitute a new entry of default; one indication of this is the fact that Plaintiff
did not re-apply for entry of default (and so the clerk did not re-enter
default) against Defendant following the February 2023 Order. 
“The six-month time limit
for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional and the court may not consider
a motion for relief made after that period has elapsed.”
(Manson, Iver & York
v. Black
(2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) Because Defendant’s motion is untimely, the
Court cannot grant the requested relief.
Furthermore, the Court finds that the mistake
proffered by Defendant’s counsel, that he should have checked with counsel to
see if the stipulation was in force and effect, does not relate to the entry of
default by the clerk at all, and is belied by Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration
and the proceedings in this Court.  On
August 5, 2022, Defendant’s co-counsel applied ex parte to have the defaults
set aside.  That application was denied
by the Court.  The ex parte application
clearly demonstrates that counsel knew the defaults were in place and that the
stipulation was no longer effective.  It
was after this hearing that the fraudulent stipulation was submitted to the
Court.  Under these circumstances,
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration in support of this motion is provably false.