 Case Number:  24STCV23170    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that he accrued $9,000 in parking tickets and when he attended a city
hall meeting to have the tickets dismissed, where he also presented solutions
for various problems, and wanted a new law to not give delivery drivers
tickets. Plaintiff alleges infliction of emotional distress due to the numerous
parking tickets which have impacted his financial condition. He also alleges
that the homeless situation caused him emotional distress when he worked as
hotel concierge, and the failure to fix potholes which caused Plaintiff’s car
damage. Plaintiff also alleges that the conditions at the city dog shelters and
school shootings have caused him emotional distress.
Defendant
City of Los Angeles demurs to the Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING          
            Defendant City of Los Angeles’ demurrer to the entire
Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet
and Confer
            The
Declaration of Carr A. Tekosky indicates that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the
meet and confer effort set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
Defendant
City of Los Angeles demurs to the Complaint as follows:
1.         Entire
Complaint.
            Defendant
argues that the Complaint fails to allege a statutory basis of liability
against Defendant.
Of course there is no common law tort
liability for public entities in California;
such liability is wholly statutory.  (Citations omitted.)  Under the California Tort Claims Act, Government
Code section 810 et seq., “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute … [¶] …
[a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out
of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other
person.” (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a).) Government Code section 815 thus
“abolishes all common law or judicially declared forms of  liability for
public entities, except for such liability as may be required by the state or
federal constitution.” (Legis. Com. com., 32 West's Ann. Gov. Code (1995 ed.)
foll. § 815, p. 167.)

. . . Consequently, the Public Entity Defendants may be held liable only if
there is a statute subjecting them to civil liability. (Citation omitted.) In
the absence of such a statute, a public entity's sovereign immunity bars the
suit. (Citation omitted.)


(In re Groundwater Cases
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 659, 688.)
            The
Complaint does not set forth a statutory basis for liability against Defendant.
Although Plaintiff argues in the Opposition that the City is negligent,
Plaintiff does not cite a statutory basis for this theory.
            The
demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Plaintiff is
given 30 days’ leave to amend.