  Case Number:  21STCV00584    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The motion of Defendant
Adriatica International, Inc. (“Adriatica”) for a determination of good faith
settlement is GRANTED.
 
The causes of
action in Plaintiff’s complaint against Adriatica (only) are dismissed pursuant
to the terms of the settlement agreement between the parties.
 
The causes of
action in the Cross-Complaint of the City of Redondo Beach (“City”) against
Adriatica (only) are dismissed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6, subdivision (c).
 
 Background 
 
On January 7, 2021, Plaintiff Rosenda Ramirez
Clark initiated this wrongful death action against Defendants City of Redondo
Beach (“City”), Rudolfo Garcia Muro (“Muro”), Magdalena Garcia (“Garcia”),
Maderos Cocina Mexicana Restaurant (“Restaurant”), Adriatica International Inc.
(“Adriatica”), Jesus Manuel Gonzalez Cornejo (“Cornejo”), Martha Coronel and
Santiago Coronel (collectively, “Coronels”), alleging the following causes of
action: (1) premise liability against City; (2) premise liability against Muro,
Garcia, the Restaurant, and Adriatica; and (3) motor vehicle negligence against
Cornejo and  the Coronels, and two causes
of action for premises liability. Pursuant to the complaint, it is alleged that
Cornejo struck Decedent George Arthur Clark as he was leaving the parking lot
of Maderos Cocina Mexican Restaurant, which is located at 231 S.
Pacific Coast Highway in Redondo Beach, California. 
 
On July 22, 2023, the
City filed a cross-complaint against Muro, Garcia, the Restaurant, Adriatica,
the Coronels, and Cornejo, alleging causes of action for total equitable
indemnity, partial equitable indemnity, declaratory relief, and express
indemnification.
 
August 2, 2023,
Adriatica filed a cross-complaint against Cornejo and Martha Coronel, alleging
causes of action for total equitable indemnity, comparative indemnity and
contribution, negligence, and declaratory relief. 
 
On June 3, 2022,
Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed Muro, Garcia, and the Restaurant from her
complaint. Similarly, on June 3, 2023, City dismissed these same parties from
its cross-complaint. 
 
On April 27, 2023,
Adriatica filed a motion for summary judgment, which Plaintiff failed to
oppose. When the matter came for a hearing on July 11, 2023, Plaintiff and
Adriatica represented that they had reached an agreement resolving the dispute
between them. (See July 11, 2023 Minute Order.) 
 
On July 31, 2023, Adriatica
filed the instant motion for good faith settlement determination. No
opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) § 877.6(a)(1)
provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an
action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or   . .
. and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (CCP § 877.6(c).)  Although a determination that
a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other party from liability,
“it shall reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated” by the
settlement.  (CCP § 877(a).)      
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith
shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”  (CCP § 877.6(d).)  
 
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499, the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive
factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith
under section 877.6:  “a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery
and the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a
settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable
after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.”    
 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was
made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
499.)  “‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement,
would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  (Ibid.)    
 
“The party asserting the lack of good
faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)), should be
permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the
ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute.  Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.”  (Id. at 499-500.)    
 
 “Thus, Tech-Bilt held that in
determining whether a settlement was made in good faith for purposes of section
877.6, a key factor a trial court should consider is whether the amount paid in
settlement bears a reasonable relationship to the settlor’s proportionate share
of liability. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500 .
. . .) 
This is because one of the main goals of section 877.6 is ‘allocating costs
equitably among multiple tortfeasors.’  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38
Cal.3d at p. 502 .
. . .).” 
(TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)  “Accordingly, a court not only looks at the
alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also
consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to
be responsible for the same injury.  Potential liability for indemnity to
a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  
 
Discussion
 
Adriatica moves for a determination of good
faith settlement pursuant to Section 877.6. In this instance, Plaintiff has agreed to settle with Adriatica
for $15,000.00. (Motion at pg. 5.)
 
In this wrongful death case, Plaintiff
alleges that Adriatica was responsible for her injuries on a theory of
negligence of premise liability. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that
Adriatica created a dangerous condition by allowing the frontage extension to
cause a line-of-sight obstruction without sufficient “vehicle warning, signage/mirrors or other
pedestrian safety apparatus for vehicles exiting” the subject premises. (Compl.
at pg. 7, Prem. L-1(d).) Also, Plaintiff contends that Adriatica failed to warn
drivers or pedestrians of the obstruction. (Id.) However, as Adriatica
points out in its motion, Cornejo, who was driving the vehicle at the time of
the incident, testified in his deposition that his view was never obstructed.
(Motion at pg. 7; Motion for Summary Judgment at pg. 9:1-11.) Moreover, Cornejo
was exiting the subject premises from a driveway that was intendent for
entrance only. (Id.; Motion for Summary Judgment at pg. 19:19-25.) Thus,
there is little to no evidence to suggest that Adriatica was at fault for
Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Given that Adriatica has
a strong argument that its potential liability is minimal, the agreed to
settlement amount of $15,000.00 is fair and reasonable. The amount is otherwise
not grossly disproportionate to the settling defendant’s total proportionate
share of liability. Furthermore, there
is no evidence of the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed
to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. The motion itself sets forth the grounds of
good faith and is accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief
background of the case in support of the above findings. (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261; See generally Anbari
Decl.) It is also noted that the instant motion is unopposed. 
Therefore,
based upon a consideration of all of the evidence in the record, and all of the
applicable factors, the Court finds that the parties entered into the settlement in good
faith. 
Conclusion
 
After considering the Tech-Bilt factors, the Court finds and
determines that the settlement entered
into between Plaintiff and Adriatica was made in good
faith within the meaning of CCP § 877.6.  Therefore, the motion for a determination
of good faith settlement is GRANTED.   
 
The causes of
action in Plaintiff’s complaint (filed on January 7, 2021) against Adriatica (only)
are dismissed pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement between the
parties.
 
The causes of
action in the Cross-Complaint of the City of Redondo Beach (filed on July 22,
2021) against Adriatica (only) are dismissed pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (c).
 
Adriatica is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 