 Case Number:  22STCV20415    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants’ motion to compel is GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part.
Defendants’ request for sanctions is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part.
 
Background
This case arises out of a vehicle accident that occurred on
June 28, 2021, on the I-5 Freeway near Gene Autry Way.  Plaintiff Bryant Mangum, III (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that Defendant Jesus Jose Heredia, Jr. (“Heredia”) drove negligently
and caused the accident, resulting in injuries to Plaintiff.  In the Complaint, filed on June 22, 2022,
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence against Heredia and Does 1 through 50.  On July 15, 2022, Plaintiff amended the
Complaint to name Red 1 Express Inc. as Doe 1.
On January 26, 2023, Defendants Heredia and Red 1 Express Inc.
(collectively, “Defendants”) filed their answer.
Currently before the Court is Defendants’ discovery motion
relating to their Request for Production (Set One).  Specifically, Defendants seek to compel verified
responses to the entire set; further responses to Requests Nos. 1, 3, 5, 7, 8,
9, 10, 12, 13, and 14; and production of nonprivileged responsive
documents.  Defendants also seek
sanctions.
Defendants filed their motion on May 4, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on September 7,
and Defendants filed their reply on September 12.  An Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was
held on August 18, 2023.  Following the
IDC, and before the opposition was filed, Plaintiff served supplemental responses.
Two other discovery motions came before the Court on September
19. 
 
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a
motion to compel without substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subds. (d)-(f), (h).)
 
Discussion
Defendants served Request
for Production (Set One) on Plaintiff on January 26, 2023.  (McNulty Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. A.)  Following several extensions of time to
respond, Plaintiff served his responses on March 30, 2023.  (Id., ¶ 5 & Exh. B.)  Plaintiff did not serve any verification or amended
response prior to the filing of the motion. 
(Id., ¶¶ 6-10.)
Following the IDC,
Plaintiff served supplemental responses, but these were also not verified. (Jafari
Decl., ¶ 5; Supp. McNulty Decl., ¶ 2.) Following further communication between
counsel, Plaintiff served a verification of the supplemental responses to some
of the requests; although the numbering is jumbled in the response, it appears
that Plaintiff served verifications to his responses to Requests for Production
Nos. 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, and 14. (Supp. McNulty Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. B.)
Plaintiff has still not served a verification for the initial responses. (Id.,
¶ 5.)
In the supplemental responses, there is a disconnect between the
numbers of the requests and the numbers of the responses (for example, what is
labelled as Demand No. 7 is followed immediately by what is labelled as
Response to Demand No. 10). From context, it appears to the Court that in the
supplemental responses, the numbering of the “Response to Demand” is correct
and the numbering of the “Demand” is incorrect. 
The Court proceeds on that assumption; the Court will refer to the “Response
to Demand” numbers and treat those as correct and will disregard the “Demand”
numbers.
Verification of Initial Responses.  Plaintiff did not verify his initial
responses to Request for Production (Set One). 
Defendants are entitled to verified responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.250.)
 Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants’
request for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide verified responses to Request
for Production (Set One), Requests Nos. 2, 4, 6, 11, 15, and 16. (Plaintiff
has, in his supplemental responses, provided verified responses to Requests Nos.
1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, and 14.)
Plaintiff’s General Assertion of Work Product Protection
or Attorney-Client Privilege. Plaintiff generally invokes the
work product doctrine and attorney-client privilege without providing any
evidence of the foundational facts to establish that the work product doctrine
and/or attorney-client privilege actually apply to any responsive
document.  Although the Court could, on
that basis, overrule Plaintiff’s claims of protection from the work product
doctrine or attorney-client privilege, the Court will exercise its discretion
to allow Plaintiff to provide a privilege log that identifies, with
specificity, any responsive document that Plaintiff is withholding from
production based upon an assertion of work product doctrine or attorney-client
privilege.  Such privilege log must list
each withheld document individually and specifically and comply with all
applicable legal requirements.
Response to Request for Production No. 1.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion
to compel a further response. 
Response to Request for Production No. 3.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion
to compel a further response.
Response to Request for Production No. 5.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he has no responsive
documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his written response is
not code compliant.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.230.) The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel a further
response.
Response to Request for Production No. 7.  Plaintiff’s objections that the request is
overly broad in time and invades Plaintiff’s privacy rights are sustained in
part.  In balancing Plaintiff’s right to
privacy against Defendant’s right to obtain relevant information regarding the
claims asserted in this case, and possible defenses to those claims, the Court rules
that that the request will be limited to the period beginning five years before
the accident (June 28, 2016) and continuing to the present.  Plaintiff’s other objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) As narrowed to the period of June 28,
2016, to the date of the response, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to
compel a further response.  The Court otherwise
DENIES the request.
Response to Request for Production No. 8.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) The Court GRANTS Defendants’
motion to compel a further response.
Response to Request for Production No. 9.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) The Court GRANTS Defendants’
motion to compel a further response.
Response to Request for Production No. 10.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff at first appears to indicate that
he has no responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but then
he appears to identify responsive documents. 
This is not code compliant. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.220, 2031.230.)
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel a further response.
Response to Request for Production No. 12.  Plaintiff’s objections that the terms “statements”
and “etc.” as used in this request are vague and ambiguous, and therefore the
request does not reasonably particularize the category of documents to be
produced, are sustained.  The Court strikes
the words “statements” and “etc.” from this request.  Plaintiff’s other objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) As narrowed to exclude the words “statements”
and “etc.”, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel a further response.
Response to Request for Production No. 13.  Plaintiff’s objections that the terms “statements”
and “etc.” as used in this request are vague and ambiguous, and therefore the
request does not reasonably particularize the category of documents to be
produced, are sustained.  The Court strikes
the words “statements” and “etc.” from this request.  Plaintiff’s other objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) As narrowed to exclude the words “statements”
and “etc.”, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel a further response.
Response to Request for Production No. 14.  Plaintiff’s objections that the terms “statements”
and “etc.” as used in this request are vague and ambiguous, and therefore the
request does not reasonably particularize the category of documents to be
produced, are sustained.  The Court strikes
the words “statements” and “etc.” from this request.  Plaintiff’s other objections are overruled.  Plaintiff appears to indicate that he will
produce all responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control, but his
written response is not code compliant. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) As narrowed to exclude the words “statements”
and “etc.”, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel a further response.
Sanctions.
Defendants’ motion is
largely granted.  Plaintiff’s conduct in
failing to provide code compliant responses to the discovery requests is not
substantially justified, and there is no reasons offered that the imposition of
sanctions against Plaintiff would be unjust. 
Given the facts, however, sanctions will be imposed only against
Plaintiff, and not Plaintiff’s counsel. 
On this motion, the
Court imposes monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $620.59 (calculated
based upon 3.5 hours of attorney work, multiplied by counsel’s billing rate of $160.17
per hour, plus the $60 filing fee.)
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion to compel is granted in part and denied in part.
Plaintiff is ORDERED to provide a verification for the
responses to Request for Production Nos. 2, 4, 6, 11, 15, and 16 within 30 days
of the notice of this order.
Requests for Production Nos. 7, 12, 13, and 14 are narrowed as
set forth in this ruling.  As narrowed,
Plaintiff is ORDERED to provide verified, code-compliant written responses,
without objection, to Requests for Production Nos. 7, 12, 13, and 14 within 30
days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff is ORDERED to provide verified, code-compliant written
responses, without objection to Requests for Production Nos. 1, 3, 5, 8, 9, and
10 within 30 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff is ORDERED to provide a privilege log meeting all
legal requirements that lists, on a document-by-document basis, each document
withheld from production based on an assertion of the protection of the work
product doctrine or attorney-client privilege within 45 days of notice of this
order.
Plaintiff is ORDERED to produce all other responsive documents
within 45 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff is ORDERED to pay monetary sanctions to Defendants
in the amount of $620.59 within 30 days of notice of this order.
All other requests for relief in the motion are DENIED.
Moving party to give notice.