 Case Number:  22LBUD00619    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff filed this unlawful detainer action on 5/05/22.  After much litigation, Defendant vacated the
premises on 9/24/23.  Because Defendant
vacated the premises, the Court took the trial re: possession off calendar on
9/25/23.  
 
On 12/11/23, the
Court heard and granted Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to amend the complaint to
state a claim sounding purely in breach of contract for unpaid rent.  The Court found CCP §§1952.3, 472, 473, and
464 collectively permitted the relief sought. 
Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint on 12/21/23.    
 
2.    
Demurrer
to Third Amended Complaint
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defendant declares she met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s attorney by telephone, but the parties did not
resolve the concerns presented by way of the demurrer and motion to strike.
 
c.     Requests
for Judicial Notice
Both parties seek judicial notice
of various documents filed previously in this action in connection with the
demurrer and opposition.  The RJNs are
unnecessary, as the Court considers its entire file when ruling on a
demurrer.  
 
d.     Analysis
The crux of Defendant’s demurrer is
that the complaint was unlawfully converted from a UD action to a civil
action.  Defendant also argues that,
because various aspects of the UD proceedings were flawed, the complaint for
breach of contract, which arises out of the underlying UD complaint, cannot
survive demurrer.
 
Defendant cites no on point
authority in support of her position. 
This action is no longer a UD action. 
As the Court ruled on 12/11/23, this action is now purely a civil action
for unpaid rent.  The TAC clearly states
a claim for breach of contract arising out of unpaid rent.  Defendant is free to raise any defense to the
claim for unpaid rent, but she has failed to show that the TAC, on its face,
suffers from any defect.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant breached the parties’ agreement on 4/17/22 by failing to pay
rent.  The statute of limitations on a
claim for breach of written contract is four years.  CCP §337(a). 
If Defendant’s position were well-taken, the Court would dismiss this
action, and Plaintiff would simply file a civil action for breach of contract.  This remedy is nonsensical, and Defendant
provides no authority for the position that this remedy is proper.  
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Defendant’s motion to strike
reiterates the position taken in demurrer. 
The motion to strike is denied for the reasons discussed above.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is
overruled.  Her motion to strike is
denied.  She is ordered to file an answer
to the TAC within ten days.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must call the court at 562-256-2227 indicating intention to
submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive a phone call indicating the parties are
submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the
motion may be placed off calendar. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the
case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If the parties do not submit on the
tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.