  Case Number:  22LBCV01066    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.            
Facts
Plaintiff, Mary Wilson filed this
action against Defendant, Rodger Wilson for damages arising out of a
partnership agreement the parties signed during the course of their divorce
proceedings.  The operative complaint is
the FAC, which was filed on 2/09/23.  It
includes causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, elder abuse, breach of
contract, conversion, unjust enrichment, accounting, constructive trust, and
violation of Penal Code §496(c).
 
2.            
Motion to Compel (FROGs)
a.    
History of Discovery Dispute as Detailed
in Moving Papers
Plaintiff propounded RFAs, set
three and FROGs, set two on Defendant on 12/05/23.  On 1/08/24, Defendant served responses to the
RFAs, in which Defendant denied each of the RFAs propounded.  Defendant also served responses to the FROGs,
but the responses did not include a response to FROG 17.1, which asks for
information supporting each denial of an RFA concurrently propounded.
 
On 1/17/24, Plaintiff’s attorney
sent a meet and confer letter to Defense Counsel.  The meet and confer letter discusses numerous
issues, one of which is the failure to respond to FROG 17.1.  The letter asked for a response within five
days.  Plaintiff’s attorney declares no
responses were served.  Plaintiff filed
this motion to compel on 2/29/24.
 
b.     Supplemental
Moving Papers
On 3/29/24, Plaintiff filed amended
points and authorities in support of her motion.  The amended points and authorities indicate
Defendant, after Plaintiff filed the original moving papers, served responses
to FROG 17.1, but argue the responses are merely disguised objections and are
insufficient.  
 
c.    
Opposition
Defendant filed timely opposition
to the motion on 4/08/24.  Defendant
argues the 3/29/24 papers were not timely served and should not be
considered.  He contends the new papers improperly
omit a separate statement.  He contends
there was no meet and confer, as expressly ordered by the Court on
2/16/24.  
 
d.     Reply
Plaintiff filed timely reply papers
on 4/16/24.  She contends the
supplemental papers were timely served with the original hearing date of
5/14/24, but the Court advanced the hearing date on 3/06/24, rescheduling it for
4/23/24.  She contends that, pursuant to
Sinaiko Healthcare, the Court has discretion, even when the original motion
filed was to compel initial responses, to treat the motion as one to compel
further responses.  She contends the
responses are patently deficient, and Defendant should not be able to drag out
the discovery issue in order to delay the trial of the matter.
 
e.     Prior
Court Orders 
Plaintiff scheduled this motion for
hearing on 5/14/24.  
 
On 2/16/24, the Court held a
hearing on an ex parte application to consolidate cases.  The Court’s minute order indicates Plaintiff
stated an intention to seek ex parte relief advancing the hearing on her
pending discovery motions.  Defendant
states, in his opposition, that the Court ordered the parties to meet and
confer further at the 2/16/24 hearing, but contends Plaintiff failed to do
so.  
 
On 3/06/24, at Plaintiff’s request,
the Court advanced the hearing and rescheduled it for 4/23/24.  
 
f.      Meet
and Confer
Plaintiff shows that she attempted
to meet and confer when Defendant failed to serve a response to FROG 17.1, and
Defendant did not respond.  On 2/21/24,
Defendant served responses to the subject FROG. 
On 3/25/24, Plaintiff served a supplemental meet and confer letter
(Exhibit H to the supplemental moving papers), and asked for a response by
3/27/24.  Defendant contends Plaintiff
failed to meet and confer as ordered by the Court, but does not indicate he
responded to the 3/25/24 correspondence. 
The Court finds the meet and confer efforts sufficient.
 
g.     Supplemental
Papers
The motion was originally filed as
a motion to compel initial responses. 
Because Defendant served responses before opposition papers were due,
and Plaintiff believed those responses to be deficient, Plaintiff filed amended
papers essentially converting the motion from one to compel initial responses
to one to compel further responses. 
Defendant argues the supplemental papers were not timely served, and
also contends they do not include a separate statement and are therefore
fatally deficient.  Defendant asks the
Court to disregard the supplemental papers.
 
The Court, in Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 138 Cal.App.4th
390, considered the trial court’s options when a responding party serves
responses to outstanding discovery prior to the hearing on a motion to compel
initial responses.  It held:
The question we address is the
extent of the trial court's authority under section 2030.290, subdivision (b),
not whether relief should be granted in a particular case. If a party provides
an untimely interrogatory response that does not contain objections and that
sets forth legally valid responses to each interrogatory, the untimely response
might completely or substantially resolve the issues raised by a motion to
compel responses under section 2030.290. 
Even in such cases, however, the trial court retains the authority to
hear the motion. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1030(a) [“The court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though ... the requested discovery was provided to the
moving party after the motion was filed”].) Whether a particular response does
resolve satisfactorily the issues raised by a motion is a matter best
determined by the trial court in the exercise of its discretion, based on the
circumstances of the case. In many cases involving untimely responses, the
propounding party will take the motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the
issue of sanctions. If the propounding party proceeds with the motion, however,
the trial court has the discretion to rule on the motion. The trial court might
compel responses without objection if it finds no legally valid responses have
been provided to one or more interrogatories; it might deny the motion to
compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose
sanctions; it might treat the motion as one under section 2030.300 and either
determine that further answers are required,FN14 or order the propounding party
to “meet and confer” ( § 2030.300, subd. (b)) and file a separate statement
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off
calendar, thereby requiring the propounding party to file a motion under
section 2030.300.
 
Thus, the Court has broad
discretion to entertain the motion and make a substantive ruling on the motion
even in the face of responses, if the Court chooses to do so.  Even if the Court disregards the supplemental
moving papers, the Court has the ability to exercise this discretion based
purely on the moving party’s reply papers and oral argument at the time of the
hearing, if the Court wishes to do so. 
Notably, the lack of a separate statement does not defeat this option,
per Sinaiko, above.  
 
Because the issue presented is
simple and straightforward, the Court is inclined to rule on the sufficiency of
the responses at this time rather than requiring the parties to meet and confer
and potentially file a motion to compel further responses, which would
necessarily require a further continuance of the trial date. 
 
h.     Sufficiency
of Responses
Plaintiff’s even-numbered RFAs
20-86 sought an admission that Defendant was supposed to pay Plaintiff
$1700/month as of various dates. 
Defendant denied each of the RFAs. 
In response to FROG 17.1, Defendant stated:
The question is based on a
document, the parties’ moot “Partnership Agreement” (PA), as that is the only
agreement upon which Plaintiff sues Defendant. However, that agreement was
intentionally and legally superseded [sic] by the parties’ divorce Judgment
(J), which Plaintiff has intentionally not sought to enforce in this
litigation. In addition, Plaintiff is raising an issue that is time-barred by
statute(s) of limitations. Plaintiff is not legally allowed to enforce the
Judgment through this civil action, and, may not do so in the civil
courts.  Further, the RFA misstates the
purported starting date, as set forth in both the PA and the J, and thus
necessarily misstates the purported anniversary date and its allegedly
concomitant increase.”
 
Plaintiff argues this is a mere
objection and not sufficient.  The Court
disagrees.  Plaintiff may not like
Defendant’s position, but this is the position Defendant has taken throughout
the litigation.  It is unclear what else
Defendant could possibly say in response to this RFA.  Defendant’s position is that the amounts were
not due because the parties’ partnership agreement was superseded by the family
court judgment.  Defendant may prove
correct or incorrect at trial, but he is entitled to take this position in
discovery.  
 
Defendant served slightly different
responses to some of the other RFAs, but the analysis is the same.  Defendant states his position as to why he is
denying the RFAs.  Plaintiff takes legal
issue with Defendant’s position, but that issue is for trial, not for a
discovery motion.  The responses are not
“untimely objections,” as Plaintiff contends, but instead are substantive
responses.  
 
The Court finds the responses
sufficient, and no further responses are necessary at this time.
 
i.      Sanctions
The final issue is whether
sanctions should be imposed.  The Court
finds Defendant failed to response to Plaintiff’s original meet and confer
letter, and failed to serve any response at all to FROG 17.1, which necessitated
the filing of this motion.  Notably,
Defendant also appears to have failed to respond to attempts to meet and confer
while the motion was pending.  Sanctions
are therefore appropriate.
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the
amount of $1860, which amount is both reasonable and fully supported by
Plaintiff’s attorney’s declaration in support of the motion.  Sanctions are sought and imposed against
Defendant and his attorney of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to
Plaintiff, by and through her attorney of record, in the total amount of $1860,
within twenty days.
 
3.            
Motion to Compel Further Responses
to RPDs
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel
further responses to RPDs, set three, on 2/16/24.  On 4/04/24, Defense Counsel filed a
declaration stating that the motion was moot and that he had been attempting to
have Plaintiff take the motion off calendar, but had not succeeded to
date.  Plaintiff has not filed any reply
papers.  The Court presumes the matter is
moot in light of the opposition declaration, and takes the motion off
calendar.  In the interest of judicial
economy and conservation of both Court and party resources, Plaintiff must
promptly take any motion off calendar when it becomes moot in the future.  
 
4.            
Case Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motions.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motions.