 Case Number:  22STCV04747    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jane Doe filed this
action against Defendants, LBUSD and Thomas Maggio for damages arising out of
childhood sexual assault perpetrated by Maggio while he was a teacher for LBUSD
and Plaintiff was a student.  Plaintiff
alleges the abuse occurred in 1996 while Plaintiff was in eighth grade and was
13-14 years old.  
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint on
2/07/22, and LBUSD answered on 4/29/22. 
LBUSD filed a cross-complaint against Maggio.  Maggio answered the complaint and
cross-complaint on 10/31/22 and 11/14/22, respectively.  
 
On 2/28/23, the parties were
scheduled to participate in an informal discovery conference before the
Honorable Serena R. Murillo in the personal injury hub court.  The IDC was not held because the Court
referred the matter to Department 1 to determine whether it was complicated and
should be transferred to an IC court for all further proceedings.  On 3/08/23, the Court transferred the matter
to Department S27 for all further proceedings. 

 
2.         Ruling on Motion to Compel Discovery 
a.         Prior
Ruling
The Court was previously scheduled
to hear this motion on 3/28/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling, which it ultimately adopted
as its final ruling.  The tentative
ruling stated, in pertinent part:
The issue on this motion is whether
LBUSD can conduct discovery concerning Plaintiff’s subsequent sexual trauma in
order to establish, to the jury, that her emotional distress was caused, at
least in part, by subsequent events and not by her childhood experience.  Notably, the fact that Plaintiff has suffered
subsequent sexual trauma is not disputed; Plaintiff has conceded sexual and
other violence at the hands of her ex-husbands during discovery.
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, relies on Knoettgen v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 11, 13-14
and Mendez v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 557, 578, both of which
considered the issue and refused to permit the proposed discovery.  Defendant, in reply, cites the recent case of
Doe v. Superior Court (2023) 15 Cal.5th 40, which discussed and distinguished
Knoettgen and Mendez.  Notably, Doe was
decided one month before Defendant filed this motion; obviously, citation to
Doe in the moving papers would have been helpful and would have permitted
Plaintiff to attempt to consider and distinguish the case.  In any event, because it is a recent Supreme
Court case, the Court has read and considered it at length in connection with
this ruling.
 
Doe was decided in connection with
a motion in limine.  A student who had
suffered sexual abuse at the hands of her fourth grade teacher filed a motion
in limine seeking to preclude the school district from introducing evidence of
subsequent molestation by a teenaged family friend, which evidence the district
sought to introduce for the purpose of establishing an alternative source of
the plaintiff’s emotional distress.  The
trial court permitted the district to introduce the evidence (denied the motion
in limine), and the plaintiff appealed. 
The case went up and down to the Court of Appeals and Supreme Court, and
ultimately the Supreme Court sent the case back to the trial court with
instructions to conduct a hearing concerning whether the probative value of the
evidence outweighed the prejudice to the plaintiff if the evidence was
introduced.  Notably, the Supreme Court
expressly abrogated the holding of Mendez, which Plaintiff relies on in her
opposition papers.  
 
The Supreme Court, in Doe,
discussed the history of the rape shield statutes.  It noted that, historically, defendants in
rape and sexual assault cases attempted to introduce evidence of the victim’s
sexual history for the purpose of showing consent.  It held that such evidence was distinct from
the type of evidence the district was seeking to introduce in the case, which
was evidence that a subsequent involuntary sexual experience was an
alternative/additional cause of the plaintiff’s emotional distress.  The Supreme Court held that, when a defendant
is seeking to introduce evidence for this purpose, the trial court must conduct
a hearing, pursuant to Evidence Code §783, in order to determine whether the
evidence is admissible or not.  §783
requires the trial court to contemplate whether the evidence proffered is
relevant and whether the relevance outweighs any prejudice to the plaintiff; if
the trial court determines the relevance outweighs the prejudice, then the
trial court must determine what evidence may be introduced and the nature of
the questions to be asked.  
 
Notably, the holding in Doe is not
as expansive as Defendant argues in its reply papers.  While Doe did discuss and distinguish
Knoettgen and Mendez, it also affirmed the requirement that the trial court
carefully weigh any unwarranted intrusion into the victim’s private life
against the need for the discovery sought by the defendant.  Doe at 69. 
Notably, the Supreme Court made very clear that the defendant cannot use
evidence of subsequent abuse for the purpose of showing the plaintiff
mis-remembered the incident that forms the basis of the lawsuit; it does not
appear Defendant in this case is attempting to conduct discovery for that
purpose.  
 
The Court concluded, “In this
respect, when balancing the probative and prejudicial value of sexual conduct
evidence, trial courts should consider allowing only limited, minimally
invasive questioning – or permitting the parties to stipulate to facts concerning
the sexual conduct.”  Doe at 70-71.  The Supreme Court was, of course, considering
the issue of what evidence should be introduced to the jury, not the issue of
what evidence should be discovered in the first place.  It seems logical that discovery would
necessarily be more broad than admissibility at trial, as the defendant cannot
possibly contemplate introducing evidence at trial without first discovering
the evidence prior to the trial.  
 
Both because Doe was cited in
Defendant’s reply papers, and also because the Court believes the parties are
in the best position to negotiate the appropriate discovery to be conducted in
this case, the Court is inclined to continue the hearing on this motion for six
weeks, to Tuesday, 4/23/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The Court asks the parties to meet and confer
to discuss how this delicate issue should be handled, both during discovery and
at trial.  The parties must discuss the
recent ruling in Doe, and must negotiate with that framework in mind.  The parties must consider whether it would be
possible to simply apportion some percentage of Plaintiff’s trauma to the
subsequent events, such that introduction of evidence concerning those events
would not be necessary at trial.  
 
b.         Supplemental Briefing
Both parties submitted timely
supplemental briefs.  Defendant contends,
in its supplemental brief, that Doe justifies the discovery sought in this
case, because Plaintiff has acknowledged that she suffered similar subsequent
attacks, which attacks likely contributed to her claimed damages in this
case.  Plaintiff contends, in her
supplemental brief, that those attacks are not sufficient to support the
heightened showing of good cause necessary to conduct the discovery sought, and
if they were sufficient, then every victim of sexual assault would be required
to engage in the discovery contemplated by Defendant.
 
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant.  The facts of this case are
substantially similar to the facts of Doe, wherein the Supreme Court
contemplated a mechanism for introducing the evidence of subsequent attacks at
trial.  Those attacks could necessarily
not be introduced, or even discussed at the pre-trial stage, if they had not
first been discovered.  In light of Doe,
the Court will permit the discovery sought. 

 
The motion to compel is
granted.  The Court asks the parties to
work together to stipulate to any necessary protective order to ensure the
strictest privacy safeguards as to the discovery sought.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   