  Case Number:  22STCV09082    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49
Date: 1/21/25
Case Name: Edwin
Martinez,
v. City of 
Santa
Clarita, County 
of
Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles
County Sheriff’s
Department,
and Does
1 –
25.
Case No. 22STCV09082
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JANUARY 21, 2025
 

MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION ON THE ISSUE OF THE DUTY TO DEFEND BY D&M
PAINTING, INC.

Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22STCV09082

 
Motion
filed: 10/30/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Complainant City of Santa
Clarita 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Cross-Defendant D&M Painting, Inc.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Cross-Complainant City of Santa Clarita’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
on the issue of the duty to defend by Cross-Defendant D&M Painting, Inc. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged personal injuries sustained
by Plaintiff Edwin Martinez (“Plaintiff” or “Martinez”), an employee of the
Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant D&M Painting, Inc. (“D&M”), at a
construction site located at 26201 Golden Valley Rd., Santa Clarita, CA 91350
(the “Property”), which is owned by Defendant/Cross-Complainant City of Santa
Clarita (“City”). 
 
            On
March 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against City, County of Los
Angeles (“COLA”), Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department (“LASD”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) and Does 1 through 25, alleging two causes of
action: (1) General Negligence, and (2) Premises Liability. Subsequently, City
filed its Answer to the Complaint on April 29, 2022.
 
On the same day, April 29, 2022, City also filed its
Cross-Complaint against D&M and Roes 1 to 25, alleging six causes of
action: (1) Express Indemnity, (2) Equitable/Implied Indemnity, (3)
Apportionment of Fault, (4) Declaratory Relief, (5) Contribution, and (6)
Negligence. Subsequently, D&M filed its Answer to the Cross-Complaint on
May 31, 2022.
 
            On August
2, 2022, Cross-Complainant Icon West Inc. (“Icon West”) filed its First Amended
Cross-Complaint against D&M. Subsequently, on August 8, 2022, D&M filed
its Answer and a Cross-Complaint against Icon West. Subsequently, Icon West
filed its Answer on August 31, 2022.
 
            On June 10,
2024, the Court granted City’s Summary Judgment as to Plaintiff’s Complaint. A
judgment was entered on June 24, 2024.
 
            On October
30, 2024, City filed its instant Motion for Summary Adjudication on the Issue
of the Duty to Defend by D&M Painting, Inc. (the “Motion”). D&M filed
its Opposition on January 7, 2025, and City submitted its Reply on January 14,
2025. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Evidentiary
Objections
 
City submits its objections to evidence presented in
D&M’s Opposition papers, specifically objecting the following:
 
1.      Paragraph
11 in Kelly Grant’s Declaration, in its entirety,
2.      D&M’s
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact Nos. 10-58.
 
The court has reviewed the evidentiary objections
submitted by City. While all objections have been considered, due to their
extensive nature, the Court will not address each objection individually in
this tentative ruling. Instead, the Court's analysis will focus on the
substance of the objections raised and their relevance to the determination of
the motion at hand. Parties are advised to review the Court's analysis and
raise any specific concerns during the oral argument.
 
B.    
Motion for
Summary Adjudication
 
A party may seek summary
adjudication on whether a cause of action, affirmative defense, or punitive
damages claim has merit or whether a defendant owed a duty to a plaintiff.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication ...
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).) The moving party “bears an initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any
triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850–851.) To meet that
burden, the moving party must present evidence sufficient to show they are
entitled to summary adjudication as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subds. (c) & (f)(2); Monticello Ins. Co. v. Essex
Ins. Co. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1376, 1385.)
 
The Legislature authorized a trial court to summarily adjudicate whether
a defendant owes a duty because “‘[t]he question of whether a duty exists under
certain circumstances is generally a question of law [citation]....’”
(Linden Partners, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th at p. 522.)
Accordingly, the existence of a duty can often be resolved on a summary
adjudication motion. The question whether a defendant breached a duty, however,
is generally a question of fact for the jury (see, e.g., Amtower v. Photon Dynamics, Inc. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1582, 1599; Piscitelli v. Friedenberg (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 953,
983.)
 
(1)  
City’s
Initial Burden
 
City argues that D&M had a
duty to defend City under a contractual indemnity provision in the agreement
between Icon West and D&M. (Mot. at p. 6.)
 
Civil Code section 2778 sets
forth rules that guide the construction of contracts of indemnity. The rules
“are as much a part of [an indemnity agreement] as those set out therein,
unless a contrary intention appears.” (Gribaldo,
Jacobs, Jones & Associates v. Agrippina Versicherunges A.G.
(1970) 3 Cal.3d 434, 442.)
 
As relevant here, the statute
provides: “The person indemnifying is bound, on request of the person
indemnified, to defend actions or proceedings brought against the latter in
respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity, but the person indemnified has
the right to conduct such defenses, if he chooses to do so[.]” (Civ. Code §
2778, subd. 4.)
 
            Significantly,
the Supreme Court of California in Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc.
(2008) 44 Cal.4th 541 (Crawford) distinguished the duty to defend from a
duty to indemnify. (Id. at p. 554.) It explained: “On the one hand, the
section [2778] specifies that a basic contractual indemnity against particular
claims, demands, or liabilities ‘embraces the cost of defense’ against such
claims, demands, or liabilities. [Citation.] On the other hand, the statute separately
specifies the indemnitor’s duty actually ‘to defend,” upon the indemnitee’s
request, proceedings against the latter ‘in respect to the matter embraced by
the indemnity,’ though ‘the person indemnified has the right to conduct such
defenses if he chooses to do so.” (Ibid.) 
 
            The
issue at hand pertains solely to the duty to defend. (Mot. at p. 1.) 
 
Here, the undisputed facts
establish that, on June 17, 2019, Icon West and City entered into an agreement
for Phase IIIB, which involved the construction of the buildings and other
associated structures for the new sheriff’s station (“Prime Contract”) (UMF No.
3, Ex. “A.”) Under the Prime Contract, D&M was listed as a subcontractor responsible
for the “Painting” scope of work. (Id. No. 4.) On August 16, 2019, Icon
West and D&M entered into a subcontract agreement (“Subcontract”). (UMF No.
5, Ex. “B.”) Accordingly to the Subcontract, Icon West was designated as the
“Contractor,” City as the “Owner,” and D&M as the “Subcontractor.” (UMF No.
6, Ex. “B.”) 
 
City cites the relevant
provisions in the Subcontract, which states:
 
            “With
the exception that this Section 13 shall in no event be construed to require
indemnification by Subcontractor to a greater extent than permitted under the
public policy of the State of California, Subcontractor shall defend,
indemnify and save harmless Owner and Contractor,
and any others required by the Prime Contract, including their officers.
agents, employees, affiliates, parents and subsidiaries, and each of them, of
and from any and all claims, demands, causes of action, damages, costs,
expenses, actual attorneys' fees, losses or liabilities, in law or in equity,
of every kind and nature whatsoever ("Claims") arising out of or in
connection with Subcontractor's Scope of Work to be performed under this
Subcontract for, but not limited to: 
 
(a)   Personal
injury, including, but not limited to, bodily injury, emotional injury,
sickness or disease, or death to persons, including, but not limited to, any
employees or agents of Subcontractor, Owner, Contractor. or any other
subcontractor and/or damage to property of anyone (including loss of use
thereof, caused or alleged to be caused in whole or in part by any act or
omission of Subcontractor or anyone directly or indirectly employed by Subcontractor
or anyone for whose acts Subcontractor may be liable regardless of whether such
personal injury or damage is caused in part by a party indemnified
hereunder." 
 
“Subcontractor shall, at
Subcontractor's own cost, expense and risk, defend all Claims as defined
in this Section 13.1 that may be brought or instituted by third persons,
including, but not limited to, governmental agencies or employees of
Subcontractor, against Contractor or Owner or their
agents or employees or any of them; Subcontractor shall pay and satisfy any
judgment or decree that may be rendered against Contractor or
Owner or their agents or employees, or any of them, arising out of any such
Claim; and/or Subcontractor shall reimburse Contractor or Owner or their agents
or employees for any and all legal expense incurred by any of
them in connection herewith or in enforcing the indemnity granted in this
Section 13.1." 
 
(UMF Nos. 8,9; underlines added) 
 
The Court finds that the undisputed evidence
establishes the existence of an indemnity provision under the Subcontract,
which expressly imposes on D&M a duty to defend City. 
 
Furthermore, City presents evidence
showing that on October 13, 2021, it tendered the claim for defense to Icon
West based on the Prime Contract (UMF No. 19, Ex. “E.”) On March 23, 2022, Icon
West’s insurer, Evanston Insurance Company, tendered the defense of the lawsuit
of Kelly Grant, the representative of D&M. The tender letter requested that
D&M and its commercial liability insurer accept the tender of defense in
the Subcontract. (Id. No. 20, Ex. “F.”) On April 4, 2022, Michele Greene
of the insurer of D&M, issued a letter that denied City and Icon West’s
tender, indicating that there was no coverage to the City for the loss. (Id.
No. 21, Ex. “G.”)
 
The Court observes that the timeframe for the
indemnitor to perform its duty to defend the indemnitee is unmistakable as
outlined in the subdivision 4 of Civil Code section 2778, which provides, in
its entirety: “The person indemnifying is bound, on request of the person
indemnified, to defend actions or proceedings brought against the latter in
respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity, but the person indemnified
has the right to conduct such defense, if he chooses to do so.” (Underlines
added.) It is written from the perspective of a party who requests a defense
and who has, unless a contrary intention is otherwise expressed in the
contract, the right to conduct the defense. 
 
Here, the indemnitee City conducted its own defense
rather than the indemnitor D&M; however, D&M’s obligation remains a
current and enforceable obligation, binding on the request
of City at the time the tender correspondence was sent. (See Crawford, supra,
44 Ca.4th at p. 555 [“By virtue of
these statutory provisions, the case law has long confirmed that, unless the
parties' agreement expressly provides otherwise, a contractual indemnitor has
the obligation, upon proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept and assume the
indemnitee's active defense against claims encompassed by the indemnity
provision. Where the indemnitor has breached this obligation, an indemnitee who
was thereby forced, against its wishes, to defend itself is entitled to
reimbursement of the costs of doing so.”])
 
Here, neither party contends that
the language of the Subcontract expresses a contrary intention between them that
would override the applicability or effect of Civil Code section 2778. 
 
Accordingly, the Court concludes
that City has satisfied its initial burden in establishing D&M’s duty to
defend based on the undisputed contractual reference and construction of its
effect under Civil Code section 2778. Consequently, the burden now shifts to
D&M to raise a triable issue of fact.
 
(2)   D&M’s
Burden
 
Here, D&M advances several
arguments. In essence, it contends that a triable issue of material fact exists
regarding the following issues: (1) the claim asserted by Plaintiff against
City is not covered within the provisions of the indemnity clause as
Plaintiff’s injury arises outside of D&M’s scope of work, (2) the claim is
excluded under Section 13.1 of the Subcontract, (3) the indemnity provision is unenforceable
as it is against public policy, and (4) the indemnity provision is
unenforceable due to unconscionability. 
 
Lastly, D&M argues that the
Motion should be denied because the issue as to its duty to defend is moot, as City
has obtained a judgment on Plaintiff’s Complaint and is no longer a defendant in
the action.   
 
            The
Court will address these arguments in turn.  

 
i.                   
Claim
Arising Out of or in Connection with D&M’s Scope of Work
 
Section 13 of the Subcontract provides, in part, that “Subcontractor
shall defend ... Owner and Contractor, and any others required by
the Prime Contract, including their officers. agents, employees, affiliates,
parents and subsidiaries, and each of them, of and from any and all claims,
demands, causes of action, damages, costs, expenses, actual attorneys' fees,
losses or liabilities, in law or in equity, of every kind and nature whatsoever
("Claims") arising out of or in connection with Subcontractor's
Scope of Work to be performed under this Subcontract[.]” (UMF No. 8, Ex.
“B.”) (Underlines added.)
 
            It is undisputed that on April 30,
2021, Plaintiff was working at the Property as an employee of D&M. (UMF No.
12.) D&M relies on its evidence showing that on that day, Plaintiff arrived
at the Property between 6:00 a.m.  – 6:30
a.m. and spoke with Mr. Lara, a D&M’s foreman, about their painting work
for that day in an indoor area near the corridor entrance of the Property.
(Maxwell Decl. ¶¶ 46-47.) They were required to use the main entrance because
no other doors available for them to get inside the Property. (Id. ¶
48.) While walking in the area in front of the main entrance, Plaintiff stepped
into a hole that was covered by a piece of plywood and injured himself. (Id.
¶ 50.)
 
            D&M asserts
that “navigating a portion of the Property that Plaintiff and Mr. Lara had
never been, and were not scheduled to perform work in, was not within D&M’s
assignment for that day.” (Opp’n. at p. 11.)
 
            However,
D&M’s argument improperly and unnecessarily narrows the scope of its duty
to defend. The language of the Subcontract explicitly states: “Subcontractor
shall defend ... Owner ... of ... (“claims”) arising out of or in connection
with Subcontractor’s Scope of Work” (UMF No. 8), rather than limiting the duty
to claims arising solely “within D&M’s assignment for that day.” 
 
Importantly, D&M’s own evidence acknowledges that the
work performed by both of its employees – Plaintiff and Mr. Lara – on the day
of the incident involved painting the interior of the Property near its
corridor entrance. (Maxwell Decl. ¶ 47.) Similarly, D&M concedes that Plaintiff
sustained injury while preparing to enter the Property to perform the work. (Id.
¶¶ 48-50.) 
 
Moreover, D&M’s evidence – specifically Mr. Lara’s
deposition – further confirms that both Plaintiff and Mr. Lara had been working
inside the building for an hour before the incident. At 9:30 a.m., based on Mr.
Lara’s notes on his worksheet, the accident occurred as they stepped out the
Property to get additional equipment for their work. (Maxwell Decl. Ex. “4,” p.
28:21-29:5, p. 30:3-7.) This timeline clearly connects Plaintiff’s presence and
activity to D&M’s assigned scope of work.
 
            While D&M
attempts to characterize the evidence as “[a] dispute ... call[ing] into
question what exactly Plaintiff was doing prior to the incident” (D&M’s Responses
to UMF Nos. 14-16), this characterization falls short. The evidence presented fails
to create a triable issue of fact regarding whether Plaintiff’s injury was “arising
out of or in connection with” the scope of work D&M was performing under
the Subcontract, specifically painting. The facts demonstrate a clear
connection between Plaintiff’s activities at the time of the incident and the
work encompassed within D&M’s contractual obligations.
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds D&M’s argument on this basis lacks merit. 
 
ii.                 
Qualifications
to the Indemnity Provision
 
D&M argues that the Subcontract also includes the
following qualifications to the indemnity provision that City relies upon to
demonstrate the duty to defend. Section 13.1 of the Subcontract provides, in
pertinent part:
 
“Such indemnity provisions apply
regardless of any passive negligent act or omission of Owner or Contractor or
their agents or employees. Subcontractor, however, shall not be obligated
under this Subcontract to indemnify Owner or Contractor for Claims
arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of Contractor or
their agents, employees or independent contractors who are directly responsible
to Contractor, or for defects in designs furnished by such persons. The
indemnity set forth in this Section 13 shall not be limited by insurance
requirements or by any other provision of this Subcontractor.” 
 
(D&M’s UMF No. 67.)
 
As the Court has previously noted, both the statute and case
law distinguish between the duty to defend and the duty to indemnify (Civ. Code
§ 2778, Crawford, supra.) The qualifications to the duty to
indemnify does not alter D&M’s separate and distinct duty to defend, which
has been clearly established to arise immediately upon tender and does not
depend on whether the conditions of indemnity is, or is not, later established.
(Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4that p. 565.)
 
Therefore, the Court finds D&M’s argument on this basis to
be unpersuasive.
 
iii.               
 Public Policy Concern
 
Civil Code section 2782, subdivision (a), provides in part,
that “provisions,
clauses, covenants, or agreements contained in, collateral to, or affecting any
construction contract and that purport to indemnify the promisee against
liability for damages for death or bodily injury to persons, injury to
property, or any other loss, damage or expense arising from the sole negligence
or willful misconduct of the promisee or the promisee’s agents, servants, or
independent contractors who are directly responsible to the promisee, or for
defects in design furnished by those persons, are against public policy and are
void and unenforceable[.]” (Underlines added.)
 
This section establishes public policy limitations specifically
on the enforceability of a duty to indemnify. The statute is silent, however,
on any restrictions or limitations regarding the duty to defend.,
 
D&M does not present any argument or legal analysis
suggesting that section 2782 alters its separate duty to defend. Instead, this
section addresses only indemnity, leaving the distinct and independent duty to
defend under Civil Code section 2778 subdivision 4 unaffected. 
 
Under established principles of statutory interpretation, the
Court must give effect to the plain meaning of the statute’s words, without
enlarging a statute by inserting or deleting words or by giving terms false or
unusual meaning. (In re Jerry R. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1432,1437.)
 
Here, the statute uses distinct words – the duty “to defend”
(Civ. Code, § 2778, subd. 4), and the duty “to indemnify” (Civ. Code, § 2782,
subd. (a).) This distinction is explicit, reflecting the legislative intent to
treat the two duties differently. Consequently, the language of section 2782
subdivision (a) does not apply to the duty to defend, which arises immediately
upon tender, independent of whether the conditions for indemnity are ultimately
satisfied. (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 565.) D&M’s reliance
on section 2782 is therefore misplaced and irrelevant to the issue of its duty
to defend.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that D&M’s argument based on
the public policy under Civil Code section 2782 does not negate its separate
and independent duty to defend as established under Civil Code section 2778,
subdivision 4, and the terms of the Subcontract.
 
iv.               
Unconscionability
 
D&M argues that the indemnity provision of the
Subcontract is void and unenforceable due to unconscionability. (Opp’n. at p.
15.)
 
“If
the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any clause of the contract
to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the court may refuse to
enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder of the contract without
the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the application of any
unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable result.” (Civ. Code, §
1670.5, subd. (a).)
 
            “Unconscionability has a procedural
and a substantive element; the procedural element focuses on the existence of
oppression or surprise and the substantive element focuses on overly harsh or
one-sided results. [Citations.] To be unenforceable, a contract must be both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable, but the elements need not be
present in the same degree. [Citation.] The analysis employs a sliding scale:
‘the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ [Citations.]”  (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579; see also Lhotka v. Geographic Expeditions, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 816, 822.)
 
Except where public policy imposes limitations, parties to
an indemnity contract generally have great freedom of action in allocating
risk. (Heppler v. J.M. Peter Co. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1277.) The
parties may establish a duty in the indemnitor to save the indemnitee harmless
from the results of his or her active negligence – provided the language is
sufficiently specific and clear to evidence this intent. (Ibid.,
internal citation omitted.) Likewise, the parties may require negligence by the
indemnitor as a condition to indemnification or they may establish a duty in
the indemnitor to save the indemnitee harmless even if the indemnitor is not
negligent. (Ibid.)
 
            Here, in
support of D&M’s argument that the Subcontract is procedurally
unconscionable, it presents declarations by its vice president, Kelly Grant
(“Grant”), claiming that the Subcontract was presented by Icon West to D&M
as a “take it or leave it” proposition, D&M did not have bargaining power
to negotiate the indemnity and defense provision in the Subcontract. The only
subject matter D&M was in a position to negotiate was its scope of work
under the Subcontract. (Grant Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
            While the Court liberally construe
the declarations submitted by the opposing party in considering the parties’
evidence in connection with a motion for summary judgment, the opposing party may rely upon
inferences, but “those inferences must be reasonably deducible from the
evidence, and not such as are derived from speculation, conjecture,
imagination, or guesswork. [Citation.]” (Joseph E. Di Loreto, Inc. v. O'Neill (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 149, 161.)
 
            Here,
D&M’s reliance on Grant’s declarations offers conclusory statement that the
Subcontract was a “take it or leave it” proposition.  Even liberally construing the declarations, it
fails to provide sufficient evidence of oppression or surprise, which are
necessary to establish procedural unconscionability.
 
            D&M’s
argument regarding substantive unconscionability is similarly unpersuasive.
D&M relies on Section 13.1 of the Subcontract to highlight the
qualifications limiting its duty to indemnify. 
The inclusion of the qualifications section demonstrates that the
parties exercised their freedom to allocate risks, including protections for
D&M that limit its indemnity obligations. Such provisions support the
inference that the Subcontract was neither “one-sided” nor “overly-harsh.” 
 
Consequently, D&M fails to establish
the existence of a triable issue of fact regarding the substantive unconscionability
of the Subcontract.
             
            Accordingly,
the Court finds that D&M has failed to satisfy its burden of making a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable material factual issue.
            
v.                 
Mootness
 
D&M asserts that City’s Motion seeks an advisory
opinion on a moot question because City has prevailed on its motion for summary
judgment as to Plaintiff’s Complaint and is no longer a defendant in
Plaintiff’s action.
 
            However,
D&M acknowledges that City remains a part to the action as a
Cross-Complainant against D&M and seeks the Court summarily adjudicate the
issue of whether D&M owed City a duty to defend. 
 
As previously analyzed, even if City conducted its own defense and subsequently obtained
a judgment, D&M’s obligation to defend was triggered by
the request of City at the time the tender correspondence was sent and remains a valid issue under the Cross-Complaint. (See
Crawford, supra, 44 Ca.4th at p. 555 [“a contractual indemnitor has the obligation, upon
proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept and assume the indemnitee's active
defense against claims encompassed by the indemnity provision. Where the indemnitor
has breached this obligation, an indemnitee who was thereby forced, against its
wishes, to defend itself is entitled to reimbursement of the costs of doing so.”])
 
 
            Accordingly,
the issue as to D&M’s duty to defend is not moot and is appropriately addressed
in the instant Motion.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Cross-Complainant
City of Santa Clarita’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 