  Case Number:  22STCV29669    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



PROGRESSIVE SELECT INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff
  in Interpleader,
            v.
MORIS SAKHAI; LAW OFFICES OF PAUL KINGSTON; and DOES 1 to 25,
  inclusive
                        Defendants in
  Interpleader.
______________________________________
LAW OFFICE OF PAUL KINGSTON,
                        Cross-Complainant
  in Interpleader,
            v.
MORIS SAKHAI
                        Cross-Defendant
  in Interpleader.


 Case No.:          22STCV29669
 Hearing Date:   3/14/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion for Order
  Discharging Plaintiff Progressive Select Insurance Company from Liability and
  for Related Orders.



 
I. Background
A. Complaint in Interpleader
On September 12, 2022, Plaintiff in
Interpleader Progressive Select Insurance Company (Progressive) filed a
Complaint in Interpleader.
The Complaint in Interpleader
involves settlement proceeds held by Progressive as the insurer for Defendant
Moris Sakhai (Sakhai), who was represented by Defendant in Interpleader Law
Offices of Paul Kingston (Kingston Law) in an uninsured motorist claim, which
resulted in a $14,000 settlement, $4,713.17 of which is contested by Kingston
Law pursuant to an unresolved attorney’s lien on the settlement.
Progressive prays for: (1) a
judgment decreeing that Defendants Moris Sakhai (Sakhai) and the Law Offices of
Paul Kingston (Kingston Law) be ordered to interplead and litigate their claims
on the subject matter of this interpleader, and be restrained from initiating
any other actions against plaintiff relating to the subject matter of this
interpleader; (2) a judgment decreeing that Progressive be discharged from
liability to Sakhai and Kingston Law with respect to the interpleaded
settlement amount deposited with the court; and (3) other relief as the Court
deems just and proper.
B. Cross-Complaint in
Interpleader
On December 6, 2022, Kingston Law
filed a Complaint in Interpleader against Moris Sakhai stating what amounts to
a breach of written contract claim—i.e., the Kington Law–Sakhai retainer
agreement—for a third of the $14,000 settlement proceeds held by Progressive
and due to Kingston Law as Sakhai’s legal representative under the parties’
retainer agreement arising from the uninsured motorist proceeding.
C. Settlement
On September 12, 2023, at a case
management conference (CMC), counsel informed the Court that the parties had
settled this action and requested a continuance to complete the related
paperwork. The Court continued the CMC to December 14, 2023 and set an order to
show cause (OSC) re: dismissal (settlement) for the same date.
On December 14, 2023, at the
CMC/OSC hearing, counsel informed the Court that all parties but for Moris
Sakhai had signed the settlement agreement and that Progressive would file a
motion to dismiss within one week. Plaintiff’s counsel further informed the
Court that Progressive intended to submit the disputed funds with the Court.
The Court took the CMC off calendar, continued the OSC re: dismissal
(settlement) to April 10, 2024, and set an OSC re: amount at issue in
cross-complaint being below the minimum of unlimited civil jurisdiction for the
same date.
D. Motion Before the Court
On January 8, 2024, Progressive
filed a motion for an order discharging it from liability and for related
orders.
Progressive’s motion was set for
hearing on March 14, 2024, and was served by mail and email on Kingston Law,
counsel for Kingston Law, and Moris Sakhai. The motion remains unopposed as of
the date of this hearing.
Attached to Progressive’s motion is
evidence showing its December 29, 2023, deposit of the contested amount of $4,713.17
with the Court in relation to this action. 
Of note, the declaration of counsel
attached to Progressive’s motion shows that even though the parties agreed on
September 6, 2023, to settle how the disputed $4,713.17 would be distributed,
as of January 3, 2024, Moris Sakhai had still not signed the circulated written
settlement agreement, representing that he will not sign the agreement until
all other disputes between him and Kingston Law are resolved. (Silva Van Vo Decl.
at ¶ 16.)
Progressive’s motion is now before
the Court.
 
II. Motion for Discharge and Dismissal of Disinterested
Stakeholder in Interpleader
A. Legal Standard
Interpleader is a procedure whereby
a person holding money or personal property to which conflicting claims are
being made by others, can join the adverse claimants and force them to litigate
their claims among themselves. (Hancock Oil Co. v. Hopkins (1944) 24
Cal.2d 497, 508; City of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th
1114, 1122.)
Once the stakeholder’s right to
interplead is established, and he or she deposits the money or personal
property in court, he or she may be discharged from liability to any of the
claimants. This enables the stakeholder to avoid multiplicity of actions, and
the risk of inconsistent results if each of the claimants were to sue him or
her separately. (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th
857, 874; City of Morgan Hill, supra, 71 Cal.App.4th at 1122.)
“An interpleader action is traditionally
viewed as two suits: one between the stakeholder and the claimants to determine
the stakeholder’s right to interplead, and the other among the claimants to
determine who shall receive the funds interpleaded …. As against the
stakeholder, claimants may raise only matters which go to whether the suit is
properly one for interpleader; i.e., whether the elements of an interpleader
action are present.” (State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 600, 612.)
If the defendant stakeholder claims
no interest in the funds or property held, he or she need not file an
interpleader cross complaint. He or she may simply apply to the court for
permission to deposit the money or property with the court clerk, and for an
order discharging him or her from further liability to the adverse claimants.
Such order will also substitute the adverse claimants as parties to the action;
or, if only money is involved, simply dismiss the stakeholder. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 386, subd. (a), 386.5.) The motion must be supported by an affidavit
by the stakeholder establishing the ground for interpleader. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 386, subd. (a), 386.5.) Notice of the motion must be served on each of the
adverse claimants to the funds or property. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386, subd.
(a), 386.5.)
The stakeholder may seek
reimbursement for his or her costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred. (UAPColumbus
JV 326132 v. Nesbitt (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1028, 1036.) The court may order
payment thereof out of the funds deposited by the stakeholder. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 386.6.)
B. Motion for Discharge and
Dismissal: GRANTED.
Here, the Court first determines
that Progressive has a right to interpleader because it is a “firm,
corporation, association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims
are made, or may be made [relating to Moris Sakhai’s settlement], by [Moris
Sakhai and Kingston Law,] such that they may give rise to double or multiple
liability.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b); Mot., Vo Decl., ¶¶ 2-22, Exs. B
[Jun. 21, 2023, order to deposit], C [receipt of Dec. 29, 2023 deposit].)
Second, the Court determines that
sufficient evidence exist to grant this motion, as follows:
(1) Progressive states that it is a
stakeholder for the recovery of a specific amount of money withheld pursuant to
a fee agreement dispute between its insured, Moris Sakhai, and Kingston Law
(Mot., Vo Decl., ¶¶ 2-11);
(2) Progressive explains that Moris
Sakhai and Kingston Law dispute the same monies, i.e., the $4,713.47 deposited
with the Court (Mot., Vo Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, 16-19, Ex. C);
(3) Progressive explains that it is
a mere stakeholder and has no interest in the money (Mot., Vo Decl., ¶¶ 20-21);
(4) Progressive explains how Moris
Sakhai’s and Kingston Law’s claims conflict (Mot., Vo Decl., ¶¶ 2-11);
(5) Progressive shows that it has
deposited the disputed monies with the court clerk (Mot., Vo Decl., ¶ 18, Ex.
C); and
(6) Progressive requests that it be
discharged from all liability to the claimants and be dismissed from the suit.
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386.5,
386.6, subd. (a).)
Third, the Court notes that
“Progressive does not seek reimbursement or recovery of costs or for attorneys’
fees in connection with this action.” (Mot., Vo Decl., ¶ 22.)
Based on these determinations and
one observation, the Court GRANTS Progressive’s unopposed motion.
 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff in Intervention Progressive Select Insurance Company’s Motion
for Order Discharging Plaintiff Progressive Select Insurance Company from
Liability and for Related Orders is GRANTED.
The Court concurrently signs the proposed order filed by Plaintiff in
Intervention Progressive Select Insurance Company.