 Case Number:  BC700634    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 15, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   BC700634
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Julie A. Esphorst v. Darryl Leander Hicks,
et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Defendant, Darryl Leander Hicks 
(2) Defendant, Tung Ming 
(3) Defendant, Tung Ming
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Plaintiffs, Jesse Franklin Esphorst and Julie Esphorst
                                                (2)
Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst 
                                                (3)
Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Tax Costs
                                                (2) Motion to Tax
Costs
                                                (3) Motion to Tax
Costs
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Each Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part as indicated below. 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On March 1, 2021, Plaintiffs, Jesse
Franklin Esphorst, an individual, and as successor-in-interest to The Estate of
Jesse Eric Esphorst, deceased (Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants, Tung Ming, Kwan Cheung, Teddyland, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. On
October 16, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death – Negligence; (2) Negligence Per Se;
and (3) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Government Code § 835). 
 
On November 28, 2023, this matter came on
regularly for trial and proceeded to the Jury on December 12, 2023. The jury
returned a verdict finding Darryl Leander Hicks responsible for 5% of
Plaintiffs’ harm, and Tung Ming responsible for 95% of Plaintiffs’ harm. The
monetary award to Jesse Franklin Esphorst was $36,500,000 for noneconomic
damages, plus $2,018,000 in punitive damages. On April 3, 2024, the Court
ordered a remittitur and reduced Plaintiffs’ compensatory awards by 20%,
resulting in the following Judgment for Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst: 
 
1.     As
against defendant HICKS, the sum of $1,460,000 with interest thereon at the
rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from the date of the entry of this judgment
until paid in full, together with costs and disbursements in an amount of
$________. 
2.     As
against defendant MING, the sum of $27,740,000 with interest thereon at the
rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from the date of the entry of this judgment
until paid in full, together with costs and disbursements in an amount
$_________. 
3.     In
addition to the compensatory damages and costs listed above, Plaintiffs Julie
Esphorst and Jesse Franklin Esphorst shall also have judgment for $18,000 in
punitive damages against defendant, HICKS and $2,000,000 in punitive damages
against defendant MING with interest thereon at the rate of ten percent (10%)
per annum from the date of the entry of this judgment until paid in full.
 
On April 26, 2024,
judgment was entered in favor of Jesse Esphorst and against Defendant Ming in
the sum of $27,740,000 with interest thereon at the rate of 10% per annum for
the date of the entry of this judgment until paid in full, together with costs
and disbursements . Further, judgment was entered in Plaintiff’s favor against
Defendant Hicks in the sum of $1,460 with interest at the rate of 10% per annum
from the date of entry of this judgment until paid in full, together with costs
and disbursements. 
 
On February 13,
2024, Plaintiff, Jesse Esphorst served and filed his memorandum of costs in the
total sum of $41,418.
 
Now,
both Defendant Ming and Hicks have filed a Motion to Tax costs. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On April 10, 2024, Defendant,
Tung Ming and Proposed Intervenor, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Company filed a Motion to Tax Costs claimed by both Plaintiff Julie A. Esphorst
and Jesse F. Esphorst. On May 2, 2024, Plaintiffs, Julie A. Esphorst and Jesse Esphorst
both filed opposition briefs. On May 8, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming filed a
joinder to Defendant, Darryl Hicks’ reply brief to Plaintiffs’ opposition
briefs. 
 
Also, on April 10, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Darryl Leander Hicks filed a
Motion to Tax Costs claimed by Plaintiffs. On May 2, 2024, Plaintiffs both, but
separately filed an opposition brief. On May 8, 2024, Darryl Leander Hicks
filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal
Standard 
 
“Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be
served and filed 15 days after service of the costs memorandum.  If the
cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code
of Civil Procedure section 1013.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b)(1).)  The failure to timely file a motion to tax or strike costs
constitutes a waiver of the right to object to costs, unless the Court in its
discretion grants relief under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, such as
based upon a finding of excusable neglect.  (Douglas v. Willis
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 287, 289; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(b)(3)
[“The party claiming costs and the party contesting costs may agree to extend
the time for serving and filing the cost memorandum and a motion to strike or
tax costs.  This agreement must be confirmed in writing, specify the
extended date for service, and be filed with the clerk.  In the absence of
an agreement, the court may extend the times for serving and filing the cost
memorandum or the notice of motion to strike or tax costs for a period not to
exceed 30 days.”].) 
 
A prevailing party claiming
costs must file and serve a memorandum of costs either (1) within 15 days after
the date of service of a notice of entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk
under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5, (2) 15 days after the service of
written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal, or (3) within 180 days after
entry of judgment, whichever is first. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (a).) Any motion to
strike or tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of
the memorandum, plus an additional 5 days if served by mail or 2 days if served
electronically. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (b)(1).) “Unless objection
is made to the entire cost memorandum, the motion to strike or tax costs must
refer to each item objected to by the same number and appear in the same order
as the corresponding cost item claimed on the memorandum of costs and must
state why the item is objectionable.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (b)(2).) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5,
subdivision (a), sets forth items allowable as costs.  And section 1033.5,
subdivision (b) lists the items that are not allowable as costs.  The
court has discretion to allow costs that are not barred by subdivision (b), but
are not listed under subdivision (a).  (Science Applications
International Corporation v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1095,
1103.)  Such unspecified but not expressly ecluded costs are recoverable in
the trial court’s discretion, upon a determination that the requests cost item
was “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation. 
“ (Section 1033.5(c)(2); Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn.
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.)  
 
If an item of costs is expressly allowed by statute and if
items appear on their face to be proper, the verified memorandum of costs is
prima facie evidence of their propriety, shifting the burden of proof to the
objecting party to show that the items are not “reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation” or “reasonable in amount.”  (Benach v.
County of L. A. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 836, 855; (Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131-32 [“trial court erred in requiring additional
proof from” the party claiming costs, where the party attacking costs had the
burden]; Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broad. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
102, 116, 121 [after a prima facie showing based on verified cost memorandum,
objecting party has the burden to prove costs should be disallowed]; Ladas,
supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at p. 773.)  But if an item of cost does not
appear proper on its face, the burden of showing that it is reasonable and
necessary shifts to the party claiming the cost.  (Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131; Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
1258, 1267; but see Bach v. County of Butte (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 294,
308 ["Only after such costs are challenged by a motion to tax do the
parties need to justify their claims by submitting documentation of the costs
they have incurred."].)  Accordingly,
the court must determine whether section 1033.5 expressly allows the particular
item and whether it appears proper on its face.  (See Nelson, supra,
72 Cal.App.4th at 131.)  
 
B.    Defendant
Ming’s Motion to Tax Costs against Plaintiff, Julie A. Esphorst
 
Defendant
Ming seeks to tax Julie Esphorst’s memorandum of costs in the amount of
$49,097.12 as follows: 
1.     Item
No. 1: Filing and Motion Fees: The Court should tax $6,355.10 of
Plaintiff’s claimed filing fees, which were not reasonably incurred. Plaintiff
has failed to provide any supporting documentation or description therein,
rendering the claimed costs ambiguous, unsupported, unrecoverable, excessive
and unreasonable; 
2.     Item
No. 5: Service of Process: The Court should tax $3,232.23 of Plaintiff’s
claimed service of process fees as the charges are excessive and unreasonable; 
3.     Item
No. 11: Court Reporter Fees: The Court should tax $11,046.72 of Plaintiff’s
claimed court reporter fees as they are not recoverable; 
4.     Item
No. 12: Models, Enlargements and Photocopies of Exhibits: The Court should
tax $1,544.90 of Plaintiff’s claimed court reporter fees as they are not
recoverable under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5; 
5.     Item
No. 16: The Court should tax Plaintiff’s $26,918.17 in costs allocated to
“other” as costs for a scene investigation, mediation fees, delivery fees,
appearance fees, deposition summary fees, trial tech fees, parking and hotel
fees are not recoverable.
 
Item No. 1
Filing and Motion Fees: Argue as to general decision points, not all 167
entries
 
            Item No. 1 of Plaintiff, Julie
Esphorst’s memorandum of costs is for “Filing and Motion Fees,” in the amount
of $6,964.92. Defendant Ming seeks to tax this amount on the grounds that Ming
argues the memorandum of costs fails to specify what Julie Esphorst filed
throughout the course of litigation that would entitle her to recover these
costs other than $589.82 for the complaint in the main action and $20 for the stipulation
re Amended Complaint. Thus, Defendant Ming contends that this item should be
taxed in the amount of $6,355.10 of Plaintiff’s claimed amount. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff, Julie
Esphorst contends that there were four lawsuits that were consolidated, and
that the listed costs related to the consolidation of all the lawsuits. In the
reply brief joined by Defendant Ming, it is noted that there are 167 entries,
and of those, numerous filings are not related to the party or the present
case. It is noted that settlements were reached by all parties besides Ming and
Hicks. The Court notes that it plans to tax the costs not related to Defendant,
Ming and the present case.  The Court
welcomes oral argument as to which costs are reasonably recoverable by Julie
Esphorst and against Mr. Ming or a stipulation by the parties to prune this amount
to a compromise number.  
 
 
Item No. 5:
Service of Process: Argue given parameters in tentative ruling
 
            Item No. 5 of Plaintiff, Julie
Esphorst’s memorandum of costs is for “Service of Process,” in the amount of
$9,592. Defendant Ming seeks to tax this amount in the amount of $3,232.23.
Defendant Ming asserts that Plaintiff filed her lawsuit against Darryl Leander
Hicks, Tung Ming, California Department of Transportation, County of Los
Angeles, City of Torrance and Shawnan. However, Defendant Ming notes that a
separate action was filed against Toyota Motor Corporation, Toyota Motor Sales
USA, Inc., Toyota Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc., Toyota Manufacturing
Kentucky, Inc., and Jesse Esphorst. Ming contends that Defendant is disputing
costs relating to service of process for: State of California, County of Los
Angeles, City of Torrance, Shawnan, Torrance PD Custodian, Toyota Corp. Toyota
Motor Sales, Toyota Motor No. Amer, Motor Engineer, and Toyota Motor No. Amer. 
 
            Again, Plaintiff’s opposition notes
that this current lawsuit involves four cases which were consolidated. As noted
by Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst, Code of Civil Procedure, section 1033.5(a)(4)
expressly allows the service of process to be included in a memorandum of
costs. 
 
            In the reply brief joined by
Defendant Ming, the papers indicate that the State of California, County of Los
Angeles, City of Torrance, Shawnan, Toyota and the Torrance PD Custodian were
all dismissed from the case, and Defendant Ming should not be required to pay
service fees for those individuals. The Court will lower the total amount by this
amount, which the Court will take argument as to its calculation.  Defendant Ming will not be charged for the
service of process in the other related/consolidated cases, however, for the
service of process relating to Defendants who were named in the present case,
but later dismissed, this was necessary for litigation.
 
            Further, Defendant Ming argues that
Plaintiff has claimed a total of $1,335 in costs to locate witnesses. Defendant
Ming contends that this is not a recoverable costs. With regard to Deputy
Jessica Lindsay in the amount of $322.38 incurred on December 1, 2023 (plus an additional
$295 charge to locate the witness), Defendant Ming argues that this Court
should tax the amount claimed as Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst was adamant, from
the start of trial, that she would not be presenting any evidence of the 911
call or the liability of the County, nor would she be calling Deputy Lindsay to
testify. As such, Defendant Ming contends that the $617.38 incurred in connection
to locating and serving Deputy Lindsay in December 2023 should be taxed.   In
opposition, Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst contends that although Deputy Lindsay was
not called as a trial witness, Plaintiff had the right to serve her and
subpoena her in the event that she could testify about her handling of the 911
call. However, Plaintiff argues that because the Court ruled the case would
proceed “uncontested” against Ming, she was never called as a trial witness. The
Court agrees that this cost should not be taxed. Further, because Defendant
Hicks filed a reply brief, and did not contest this portion of Item No. 5, and
Defendant Ming joined the reply brief, there is nothing in the reply brief replying
to this. The motion is DENIED as to this $322.38 charge but granted as to the
$295 amount.  
 
Item No. 11 :
Deny motion to tax the cost of the civil transcripts; grant motion as to the criminal
transcripts
 
            Item No. 11 to Plaintiff, Julie
Esphorst’s memorandum of costs is entitled “Court Reporter Fees as Established
by Statute,” in the amount of $11,046.72. Defendant Ming notes that this motion
does not challenge the fees for transcribing records as these transcripts were
used at trial, but challenges the remaining costs, including: CCROLA, CCROLA,
Criminal trial transcript, criminal trial transcript, discovery motion, in
camera hearing, criminal trial transcript, criminal trial transcript, 14 share
of reporting at 11/20/2023 hearing, trial 11/28/23, trial 11/29/23, trial
11/30/23, trial 12/1/23, trial 12/4/23, trial 12/5/23, trial 12/6/23, trial
12/7/23, trial 12/11/23, and trial 12/12/23, totaling $10,328.90. Defendant
Ming argues that the identified categories were not transcripts of court
proceedings ordered by the Court, and thus are not recoverable. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff Julie
Esphorst contends that the challenged fees associated with the transcripts from
criminal trial, for the hearings on several discovery motions during the case,
and for the trial itself are not explicitly excluded from the Code. Julie
Esphorst notes that understanding the evidence and testimony that was presented
in the criminal trial was extremely useful in the civil case as it helped to,
in part, identify needed witnesses, ascertain potential impeachment evidence,
and streamline the civil trial. 
 
            In opposition to the discovery fees
portion, Julie Esphorst contends that these too were: (1) necessary to
confirm/document that which was discussed and ordered at the hearings; and (2)
in the event that a writ or appeal became necessary. 
 
A
party prevailing at trial is not entitled to recover court reporter fees except
as established by statute.   Court reporter fees as established by statute
are allowable costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5(a)(11).) California Government
Code section 68086(c) states that “[t]he costs for the services of the official
court reporter shall be recoverable as taxable costs by the prevailing party as
otherwise provided by law.” California Government Code Section 69948(a) states
that “The fee for reporting testimony and proceedings in contested cases is
fifty-five dollars ($55) a day, or any fractional part thereof.”  In addition, the Court appointed Kathy
Swinhart CSR as an official pro tem court reporter for the trial, her official
record of the proceedings thus being available to both parties for post-trial
motions or appeal.  With the Los Angeles
Superior Court having discontinued the use of court-employed court reporters
for civil matters, parties who desire an official record of the proceedings are
obliged to provide their own reporters and thus provide millions of dollars a
year in net savings to the court system. 
Had Ms. Swinhart been a court employee, there would be no doubt that her
reasonable fees would be recoverable on a Cost Bill by the prevailing party.  
 
The Court thus
exercises its discretion to award the reporter fees and transcription costs for
the civil trial but to grant the motion to tax the criminal court charges. Subdivision
(b)(2) plainly bars recovery of “[i]nvestigation expenses in preparing the case
for trial” which is what the Court views for the records of the criminal
trial.  
 Counsel for Plaintiff is directed to calculate
the amounts awarded and denied and to provide a draft proposed order to defense
and Intervenor’s counsel for review before submitting the same to the Court.  
 
Item No. 12: Deny
the motion to tax the $1,544.90 in subpoenaed certified records.  
 
 
            Next, Item No. 12 of Plaintiff,
Julie Esphorst’s memorandum of costs is entitled: 
“Models, Enlargements and Photocopies of Exhibits,” totaling $3,692.64.
Defendant Ming notes that he does not challenge the $2,147.72 charge for
Plaintiff’s portion of the trial exhibits. However, Defendant Ming challenges
the remaining $1,544.90 in charges related to obtaining records via subpoena
and copying transcripts for trial. Defendant Ming argues that records obtained
via subpoena do not fall within Section 1033.5(a)(13).
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff, Julie
Esphorst contends that the certified records that Plaintiff obtained from the
fire department, ambulance companies, police department, coroner’s office,
medical providers, and news coverage of the incident were all directly relevant
to liability, comparative fault, and damages – all of which were disputed by
the defendants during litigation. Julie Esphorst contends that all of these
documents were intended to be used as exhibits at trial. The Court finds
Plaintiffs’ argument to be more persuasive, since the parties did not stipulate
to certain facts or to decide not to contest certain facts until long after the
certified records had been obtained.  The
Court thus denies the motion to tax the $1,544.90.  
 
 
Item No. 16:
Grant motion to tax scene investigation, deny motion as to mediation expenses, 
 
            Lastly, Defendant Ming contends that
in Item No. 16 entitled “other,” Plaintiff Julie Esphorst’s memorandum of costs
identifies this section allocation $26,918.17. The costs are outlined as
follows: 
 
            Scene Investigation
 
            Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst is seeking
$191.63 in costs for a scene investigation that was conducted by an
investigator on March 31, 2017. Defendant Ming contends that the memorandum
fails to specify the purpose of this scene investigation and the extent of the
“investigation” is unknown to Defendant. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends
that within ten (10) days of the incident, her counsel hired an investigator to
go to the scene of the crime to inspect and photograph the then-existing
condition and to canvas the neighborhood for witnesses. Plaintiff argues the
information gather from that early inspection was key in documenting skids
marks and other physical evidence that would later by used by experts in this
case, identifying potential defendants, and locating witnesses. 
 
            As noted by Defendant Ming, these fees are not designated
as allowable costs under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5. There is
further no evidence from Plaintiff that these fees are allowable as no
precedent, precedent or statutory has been cited to in order to validate these
costs.   Further, subdivision (b)(2) bars
recovery of “investigation expenses” in preparing the case for trial.”  As such, this Court GRANTS this motion as to
scene investigation. 
 
            Mediation Fees: Deny motion to
tax $2,886.63
 
            Next, Defendant Ming contends that
Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst seeks $2,886.63 in mediation fees. Again, Code of
Civil Procedure, section 1033.5, does not account for mediation fees. 
 
            In Plaintiff’s opposition, she contends that this case is
similar to Gibson v. Bobroff (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1202, where a
Plaintiff was allowed to collect costs for a court-ordered mediation when the
court-ordered mediation as unsuccessful, and required the parties to continue
to litigation. Here, Plaintiff contends that this Court essentially ordered the
parties to mediation. This was not a court-ordered mediation. As noted in
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration, Judge Hill ordered the parties to either
participate in private mediation or an in-person settlement negotiation.   But in this Court’s view, mediators' fees fall
within the “discretionary category” of Section 1033.5 subdivision (c)—that is,
they are allowable if in the court's discretion they were “reasonably necessary
to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to
its preparation.”  (Sanford v. Rasnick
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1121, 1132.)  This
Court exercises its discretion and awards the mediation fees incurred.  Mediations are reasonably necessary, as over 50%
of the matters before Department 8 resolve via mediation and Judge Hill gave the
parties a less expensive option that was declined.  As such, the mediator fees sought by
Plaintiff in this case are not taxed. 
 
            FedEx/Delivery Fees: Grant
motion to tax $1,506.69
 
            Next, Defendant Ming notes that Plaintiff
is seeking $1,506.69 in various delivery fees. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1033.5(b)(3), postage fees are not recoverable costs. As
noted by Defendant Ming, the Court in Ripley v. Pappadopoulos (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1616, 1627 interpreted this to include costs charged by FedEx. The
Court agrees, and GRANTS Defendant Ming’s motion to tax costs related to
courier fees. 
 
            Appearance Fees: Grant motion to tax
$233
 
            Next, Defendant Ming notes Plaintiff
is seeking $233 in costs for Court Cal and LA Court Connect fees for remote
appearances. The Court notes that although – as Plaintiff points out – these
were Court ordered appearances and/or conferences, choosing to take these
virtually instead of in person are conveniences to parties, not necessary in
conducting litigation. As such, the Court GRANTS this motion and taxes the
entire cost. 
 
Deposition
Summaries: Grant motion to tax $2,254.05
 
Further,
Defendant Ming also notes that Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst, hired an outside
contractor to summarize deposition at various points throughout the court of
this litigation and is now seeking $2,254.05 in deposition summaries. Again,
this is not an allowable cost under Code of Civil Procedure § 1033.5, and is
merely a convenience to counsel to be able to reference a summary versus an
entire transcript. Deposition summaries are not necessary for litigation; the
cost of summarizing the depositions is more akin to attorneys fees which are
not recoverable in the absence of a contract or statute authorizing the same.  
.

Plaintiff
does not oppose this item being taxed. As such, the motion is GRANTED as to
this item. 
 
Trial
Tech Fees: Grant motion to tax $17,948
 
Plaintiff,
Julie Esphorst is seeking $17,948 in trial tech fees to which Plaintiff claims
were incurred for a trial technician to attend a multi-week trial and assist
with the electronic presentation of evidence. 
 
The
Court notes that the trial technician being present, and fees associated with
his/her/their time during the trial are not expressly allowable costs under
Code of Civil Procedure 1033.5(a)(13). The electronic presentation of exhibits,
including costs of rental equipment and electronic formatting” costs ARE
allowed if they were reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1033.5(a)(13).) Plaintiff cites to Bender v. County of Los Angeles
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 968, to argue that the Second District Court of Appeal
granted the costs for a trial technician to be allowable under the Code
section. The Court of Appeal noted that the trial court explained its reasoning
in considerable detail and noted that “the court thought the costs should be
allowed – in a case like [that] where attorney fees are recoverable costs – of
the services in question ‘enhanced counsel’s advocacy during the trial,’ so
long as the costs were ‘reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation.’” (Bender, 217 Cal.App.4th at 990.) In this case, Plaintiff
also argues that her trial technician allowed for the smooth presentation of
evidence at trial, and he was the key reason the parties were able to conclude
the trial within the timeframe promised to the jury despite ongoing law and
motion and evidentiary disputes that took up time through the trial.   
Bender is
distinguishable, however. Attorney's fees are not compensable as costs in the
absence of an agreement of the parties or statutory authority, and are not recoverable
here. (Code Civ.Proc., § 1021.)   In Bender,
attorneys fee were recoverable making it reasonable to include the trial
technician fees.  Accordingly, the motion
to tax this item is GRANTED. 
 
Parking
& Hotel Fees: Grant motion to tax $1,936.80
 
            Lastly, Defendant Ming notes that
Plaintiff is claiming a total of $2,089.80 in travel and parking expenses,
including $1,936.80 in hotel fees. As noted by Defendant Ming, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033.5(a)(3) allows for reimbursement of travel expenses
associated with depositions, not trial.
            
            In opposition, Plaintiff cites to Doe
v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Children & Family Services (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 675, where the Second District Court of Appeal found that lodging expenses
may be reasonable. However, this Court notes that the difference is that in Doe,
the Court found that the lodging expenses incurred by a Sacramento-based legal
assistant, during a Los Angeles trial, where the assistant/paralegal was
crucial to the defense was reasonable. The difference is that Plaintiff’s
attorney, who states that he lives more than 50 miles from the Courtroom should
be allowed to apply the same logic. This Court is not persuaded. As such, as
they relate to trial, the Court GRANTS this motion and taxes this section in
its entirety. 
 
C.    Defendant
Ming’s Motion to Tax Cost against Plaintiff, Jesse Esphorst 
 
Here,
Defendant Ming seeks to tax the following costs from Plaintiff, Jesse
Esphorst’s  memorandum of costs: 
 
1.     Item
No. 5 Service of Process: The Court should tax $624.00 of Plaintiff’s claimed
service of process fees as the charges are Plaintiff’s claimed service of
process fees as the charges are excessive and unreasonable; 
2.     Item
No. 11 Court Reporter Fees: The Court should tax $4,802.00 of Plaintiff’s
claimed court reporter fees as they are not recoverable; and 
3.     Item
No. 16 Other: The Court should tax Plaintiff’s $24,290.00 in costs allocated to
“other” as costs for a vehicle storage, video production, mediation fees, nurse
observer fees and parking fees are not recoverable. Plaintiff has also failed
to provide any supporting documentation or description therein, rendering the
claimed costs ambiguous, unsupported, unrecoverable, excessive and
unreasonable.
 
Item No. 5:
Deny motion to tax $624
 
            Defendant Ming notes that Plaintiff,
Jesse Esphorst is seeking $1,107 in service of process charges. Defendant Ming
is objecting to $624 of those charges for those individuals who were
subsequently dismissed. This Court notes that as the costs relate to this case,
and not the other cases filed, the Court will not be taxing these costs as they
were necessary for litigation despite the dismissal of the individual parties
thereafter. Thus, this motion is DENIED as to this item. 
 
Item No. 11:
Deny motion to tax this item
 
            Next, Defendant Ming notes
Plaintiff, Jesse Esphorst, is seeking $4,802 in court reporter fees for the
trial reporter. The Court addressed this issue wit respect to the motion to tax
Julie Esphorst’s cost above.  So long as there
$4,802 in trial court reporter costs are not duplicative of the expenses the
Court awarded above to Julie Esphorst, the motion to tax this item is
denied.    
 
Item No. 16
 
            Defendant Ming contends that
Plaintiff is seeking $24,406 in “other” charges as follows: 
 
            Vehicle Storage: Grant motion to tax
$5,000 of the amount claimed         
 
            First, in this item section,
Defendant Ming notes that Plaintiff is seeking $12,881 in costs for vehicle
storage, vehicle transportation and inspection of the vehicle. However, Defendant
Ming argues that Plaintiff has failed to produce any supporting documentation
to allow Defendant or this Court to determine what the costs paid for and
whether they were reasonable or necessary. 
            
            In opposition, Plaintiff, Jesse
Esphorst, does not provide this Court with any Code section this cost may even loosely
fall under. Plaintiff does note, however, that the vehicle was an important
piece of evidence and that counsel was obligated to store, preserve, and
maintain the evidence. Plaintiff also notes that inspection to the vehicle
could be done while it was preserved.  However,
as noted in the motion relating to Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst’s, above,
investigation expenses in preparing for trial are not allowable pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(b)(2).   But retaining the vehicle to avoid a defense
claim of spoliation of evidence is a valid and reasonably necessary
expense.  Unless the parties can allocate
this bundled cost into a separate amount for storage of the accident vehicle,
the Court will deny the inspection cost which the Court assigns as $5,000 of
the total amount, and award the balance of $7,881.  In the Court’s view, the preservation of evidence
basis for such expenses fall within the “discretionary category” of Section
1033.5 subdivision (c).  As such, this
Court GRANTS the motion as to $5,000 of this this item. 
 
            Habeas Videos: Grant motion to tax
$2,337
 
            Next, Defendant Ming notes that
Plaintiff is seeking $2,337 to compile a “vehicle transfer video” and
“inspection sessions video.” Defendant Ming notes that he has no idea who these
videos consisted of or when they were compiled, and is unclear how these
claimed costs were reasonably necessary to conducting litigation. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff, Jesse
Esphorst contends that these costs were incurred during the transportation of
the subject vehicle from the police department to storage facility at Rest Your
Case Evidence, and the cost was incurred to document chain of custody and
confirm hat no damage was done during the pick-up, transport, or drop off of
the vehicle. Again, this explanation does not help Plaintiff’s argument. Chain
of custody may have taken place during the criminal case. Further, although
Plaintiff is referring to this piece of evidence as being available for
“inspection” it does not negate that this cost is tied to “investigation,” and
would not be allowable for the same reasons as the section above. 
 
Mediation
Fees: Deny motion to tax this item
 
For
the same reasons as noted above, in Julie Esphorst’s “mediation fees” section,
this Court DENIES the motion to tax these costs, provided they are not duplicative
of the same costs awarded to Julie Esphorst.  These fall within the “discretionary category”
of Section 1033.5 subdivision ©.
 
Nurse
Observer Fees: Grant motion to tax $700 
 
Defendant
Ming notes that Plaintiff, Jesse Esphorst, is seeking $700 in fees to have a
nurse observer attend the Defense Medical Examination. The Court agrees with
Defendant Ming, and Plaintiff offers no persuasive argument as to why this cost
would be allowed, that such a fee was not reasonably necessary to conduct
litigation, and is not recoverable. The Court GRANTS Defendant Ming’s motion as
to this item. In the Court’s view, this claimed item is more akin to attorneys
fees which are not recoverable in this action. 

 
Subpoenaed
Medical Records: Deny motion to tax, to the extent these are for Jesse Esphorst
Sr. and Jr.’s medical expenses only 
 
Next,
Defendant Ming seeks to tax the $5,542 in costs Plaintiff is suggesting are
tied to obtaining copies of records via subpoena. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff fails to provide any case law or statutory basis for
requesting this amount.  The Court tentatively
denies the motion to tax these costs, as certified medical records may have
reasonably been necessary to prove Jessee Esphorst’s economic damages, although
he elected not to seek recovery of those amounts at trial.  The Court exercises its discretion under Section
1033.5 subdivision (c) to award these costs, assuming they are limited to Jesse
Sr.’s and Jessie Jr.’s medical costs.  
 
 
Parking
Fees
 
Lastly,
Plaintiff is claiming a total of $135 in parking expenses. As noted above,
these fees are not allowable. As such, the Court GRANTS this motion. 
 
D.    Defendant
Hick’s Motion to Tax Costs against Plaintiffs
 
Defendant Hicks
filed this Motion to Tax Costs for both Jesse and Julie Esphorst seeking to tax
the following costs from the Plaintiffs’ Memorandum of Costs: 
 
1.     Item
No. 1: Filing and Motion Fees;
2.     Item
No. 2 Service of Process; 
3.     Item
No. 11: Court Reporter Fees as Established by Statute; and 
4.     Item
No. 16: “Others”
 
Because
the analysis in the above section is the same as to each of these sections, and
the Defendants filed a joinder, the reply brief discussions above were based on
Defendant Hick’s reply brief anyway. As such, Defendant Hicks is to refer to
the Court’s above analysis as to the items he seeks to tax. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Tax Costs is Granted in part and Denied in part as indicated above. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to calculate
the amounts the Court taxed, provide a proposed order to Defense/Intervenor
counsel within 7 calendar days of this ruling (for review, edits, and approval),
and then submit the proposed order to the Court on or before June 11, 2024. 
 