  Case Number:  23TRCV01689    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 May 15, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01689   CASE NAME:                        Fadriko Dillon v. Prime Healthcare  Centinela, LLC, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Prime Healthcare Centinela,  LLC dba Centinela Hospital Medical Center, Prime Healthcare Services, LLC, and  Veritas Healthcare Services, Inc.    RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Fadirko Dillon   TRIAL DATE:                       None  Set.      MOTION:                              (1) Demurrer   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendants’ Demurrer is  SUSTAINED with  twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the First, Second, and Fourth causes of  action, and MOOTED as to the Third and Fifth causes of action.        I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual    On May 26,  2023, Plaintiff, Fadriko Dillon (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against  Defendant, Centinela Hospital Medical Center, Prime Healthcare Services, LLC,  and DOES 1 through 50. On June 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”). On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended  Complaint (“SAC”). On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint  (“TAC”) against Defendants, Prime Healthcare Centinela, LLC dba, Centinela  Hospital Medical Center, Veritas Health Services, Inc., Prime Healthcare  Services, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. The TAC alleges causes of action for: (1)  Premises Liability; (2) General Negligence; (3) Gross Negligence; (4) Landlord  Liability; and (5) Dereliction of Duty.    Now,  Defendants, Prime Healthcare Centinela, LLC dba, Centinela Hospital Medical  Center, Veritas Health Services, Inc., Prime Healthcare Services, LLC  (collectively, “Defendants”) file a Demurrer to the TAC.    B. Procedural   On April 9, 2024, Defendants filed  this demurrer to the TAC. On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.  On May 8, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief.  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE               Along with  Defendants’ moving papers, Defendants have filed a Request for Judicial Notice,  requesting this Court take judicial notice of the following documents:    1.       Exhibit “B” is a true and correct copy of the  article: Deputy Shoots Suspect in Hospital Emergency Room, published by  KCRA.com on October 18, 2012, by KCRA News; and  2.       Exhibit “C” is a true and correct copy of the  article: Officials Probing Possible Murder-Suicide in Inglewood, published by  mynewsla.com on July 25, 2015, by Debbie L. Sklar.   The Court GRANTS this request and takes  judicial notice of the articles above, but not for the truth of any matters  asserted in those articles.         III. ANALYSIS¿    A.     Legal  Standard   A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a  demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of  action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the  plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High  School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the  sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all  material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.  (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,  deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.  (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)   A  pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label  the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell  what he or she is supposed to respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition  Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for  uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects  uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery  procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th  612, 616.)   B.      Discussion     Defendants demur to the TAC  on the grounds that Defendants argue the first, second, third, fourth, and  fifth causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of  action against the Defendants.    Premises Liability    First, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s  first cause of action for premises liability fails to sufficiently allege each  element required to state a claim for premises liability. The elements of negligence are: (1) a duty to exercise  ordinary care; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) damages. (Ladd  v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) Specifically,  Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged a cognizable duty owed. While those who own, possess, or control property  are not insurers of the safety of their patrons, they generally have a duty to  exercise reasonable and ordinary care in keeping the premises reasonably safe  and in managing the property¿to¿avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk  of harm.  (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.¿(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Annocki¿v.  Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232¿Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  The  existence and scope of duty are legal questions for the court.  (Annocki,  232¿Cal.App.4th.¿at¿36.)  “A store owner exercises ordinary care by  making reasonable inspections of the portions of the premises open to  customers, and the care required is commensurate with the risks involved.”¿ (Ibid.)   If a dangerous condition exists, the property owner is “under a duty to  exercise ordinary care either to make the condition¿reasonably safe for  their¿[customers’]¿use or to give a warning adequate to enable them to avoid  the harm.”  (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc.¿(1960) 53 Cal.2d 443,  446.)  The party asserting the cause of action has the burden to prove  that the owner had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition in  sufficient time to correct it.  (Ortega, 26 Cal.4th at 1203, 1206.)    Plaintiff makes reference in the TAC to a  shooting at the hospital being a reasonably foreseeable event based on prior allegedly  similar incidents. Such a reference refers to the heightened foreseeability  test. California  law requires landowners to maintain land in their possession and control in a  reasonably safe condition.  (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center  (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).)  The liability of landowners  for injuries to people on their property is governed by general negligence  principles.  (Pineda v. Ennabe (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1407 (Pineda).) A cause of action for  negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care, (2)  breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff.  (County  of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292,  318.)  The existence of a legal duty is a question for the court to  determine, and “foreseeability is a ‘crucial factor’ in determining the  existence and scope of a legal duty.”  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill  (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 237, citing Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at pp. 674,  676 (Delgado).) However, a high degree of foreseeability is required in order to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty of care  includes the hiring of security guards. . . . [T]he requisite degree of  foreseeability rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar  incidents of violent crime on the landowner’s premises.  To hold otherwise  would be to impose an unfair burden upon landlords and, in effect, would force  landlords to become the insurers of public safety, contrary to well established  policy in this state.”  (Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 679,  footnote omitted.)  “Heightened foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of  prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a reasonably  foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in that location) and does not  require a showing of prior nearly identical criminal incidents.  (Delgado,  supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 245.)                Here,  Plaintiff’s TAC contends that while he was at the premises, a patron, employee,  agent, customer, or person otherwise present with permission of the owner of  the premises, exited the ER and assaulted Plaintiff by grabbing him and  inflicting  a gunshot wound to  Plaintiff’s leg. (TAC, p. 4.) Plaintiff has alleged that Defendants who owned  the premises had security, but failed to either check the individual who  committed the assault for a weapon or prevent the crime upon their premises.  (TAC, p. 4.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew or should have known of  this dangerous condition and that this type of assault was reasonably  foreseeable based on crime in the area and prior similar incidents. (TAC, ¶ 4.)  The TAC also alleges that Defendants had a duty to protect invitees, including  Plaintiff, from a reasonably foreseeable incident based on crime in the area  and prior similar incidents. (TAC, p. 4.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends that  there were at least two incidents of prior gun violence occurring on or about  July 25, 2015 and October 12, 2012. (TAC, p.5.)               As  noted above, a party alleging the need for security, or failure to provide  ample security, needs to show prior similar criminal incidents which would lead  to this heightened foreseeability. It is not enough for Plaintiff to merely  allege, in a conclusory manner, that prior criminal incidents took place in the  area and on Defendants’ premises. Plaintiff argues, in his opposition, that  this case is to be instructed by Ortega v. Kmart (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200.   In Ortega, the California Supreme  Court stressed the requirement that an “owner’s actual or constructive  knowledge of the dangerous condition is a key to establishing its liability.” (Ortega,  26 Cal.4th 1200.) It appears that Plaintiff attempts to argue that Defendants’  precautionary safety measure of providing security already should create an  inference that Defendants had actual or constructive knowledge that the  dangerous condition on their property existed prior to Plaintiff’s injury.  However, the Court is not persuaded by this argument. Hospitals often have  security guards present for a number of reasons, but the scope of the claimed  duty is not outlined for the Court here.   Does Plaintiff contend that every public building where an act of  violence has occurred in the last dozen years owes a duty to install metal  detectors at every entrance?  Or that  every invitee, guest, patient, or family member of an in-patient or outpatient  user of the hospital must be subject to a physical search by hospital security  staff?     The  Opposition contends that Plaintiff plans to introduce evidence at trial of  other violent crimes (besides the 2012 and 2015 incidents) that were reported  on Defendant’s premises in recent years, none of which are alleged in the  TAC.  Plaintiff needs to provide more  detail and when amending its next pleading. The Court has taken notice of the  prior incidents however, and for the reasons explained in Defendants’ moving  papers, the Court cannot determine that they ae both “similar” to the subject  incident.     Lastly, this  Court also notes that the allegation of duty is vague and uncertain.  Is Plaintiff arguing that although Defendants  employed security guards, they were negligent in protecting individuals at the  hospital? Is Plaintiff arguing that because of specific prior incidents occurring  on the premises and the location of the premises, that Defendants needed more  security? It is unclear based on the allegations.                Thus,  this Court SUSTAINS demurrer as to the premise liability cause of action, with  twenty (20) days leave to amend.    General Negligence   Next, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot  maintain a cause of action for general negligence as it fails to allege a  cognizable duty. In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must  allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach  of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)  228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Namely, Defendants argue that this cause of action  should be sustained on demurrer because it is identical to that of the premises  liability cause of action. The Court does note that the allegations found in  the premises liability cause of action and the general negligence cause of  action are essentially identical. However, for the sake of providing the  Court’s analysis, the Court completes the analysis below.    Plaintiff, in his TAC and opposition brief,  argue that Plaintiff was owed a duty of care under Civil Code section 1714 (mis-labeled  the Code of Civil Procedure in the TAC).   As framed by the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that what Plaintiff was on the  Defendants’ premises, an individual (the “Shooter”) who was a patron, employee,  agent, customer, or otherwise present with permission of the owner, lessee,  operator, or occupier o the premises, was on the premises and subsequently  exited the emergency room and assaulted Plaintiff by grabbing him and  inflicting a gunshot wound in Plaintiff’s leg. (TAC, p. 6.) Plaintiff alleges  that Defendants and their employees either owed Plaintiff a duty of care as a  patron, patient, invitee, or visitor, and breached that duty of care when  security failed to either check the Shooter for a weapon or prevent the crime  upon the Defendants’ premises. (TAC, p. 6.) Plaintiff contends that Defendants  failed to provide proper security or care in surveillance of the premises and  their actions and inactions resulted in a failure of their general duty of  care. (TAC, p. 6.)   In opposition, and in Plaintiff’s TAC,  Plaintiff argues that the duty owed was that of Civil Code section 1714. “Everyone is responsible, not only for the result  of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his  or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property  or person.”  (Civ. Code §1714(a); see Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011)  51 Cal. 4th 764, 771 [“The general rule in California is that ‘[e]veryone is  responsible . . . for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of  ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person.’”].)    The Court is uncertain if Plaintiff is alleging that the security guards  were negligent or the hospital, or both. In most instances, a place of business  will hire out a security company to provide security for their place of  business. When “contracting  with the business to provide security services, the security guard creates a  special relationship between himself and the business’s customers.  This  relationship, in and of itself, is sufficient to impose on the guard the  obligation to act affirmatively to protect such customers while they are on the  business premises.”  (Marois, supra, 162 Cal.App.3d at p.  200.)  However, “[a] security company hired to protect business premises  owes no greater duty toward the patrons of that business than is owed by the  business owner under relevant principles of premises liability law.”  (Balard  v. Bassman Event Security, Inc. (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 243, 247.)   “[T]he scope of any duty assumed depends upon the nature of the undertaking”  and “a defendant’s undertaking will support the finding of a duty to another  only if (a) the defendant’s action increased the risk of harm to another, or  (b) the other person reasonably relied upon the undertaking to his or her  detriment.”  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th  224, 249).    As with the premises liability cause of action, the general negligence  claim is vague and uncertain.  Plaintiff  is required to allege how Defendants breached their duty, and whether they need  more security, whether it was the contracted security company that breached its  duty of care to check individuals, whether this is a negligent hiring cause of  action for the Defendants who may have allegedly been negligent when hiring the  specific security company. Further, this may raise an issue of heightened  foreseeability as discussed above. Again, without more, Plaintiff cannot  maintain a cause of action for general negligence.    The demurrer is sustained as to this cause of action. Plaintiff is  allowed twenty (20) days leave to amend.    Gross Negligence   Defendants also argue that Plaintiff has failed  to allege sufficient facts to maintain a cause of action for gross negligence. “Gross  negligence is pleaded by alleging the traditional elements of negligence: duty,  breach, causation, and damages. However, to set forth a claim for gross  negligence the plaintiff must also allege conduct by the defendant involving  either want of even scant care or an extreme departure from the ordinary  standard of conduct. Gross negligence connotes such a lack of care as may be  presumed to indicate a passive and indifferent attitude toward results.” (Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015)  238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640, citations, quotation marks, and ellipses omitted.)  There is no distinct cause of action for gross negligence apart from  negligence. (Continental Insurance Co. v.  American Protection Industries (1987) 197 Cal.App.3d 322, 328-330.) This Court agrees, as does Plaintiff, per their  opposition brief stipulating to strike the third cause of action, that  Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to assert a cause of action for  gross negligence. The Court accepts Plaintiff’s withdrawal of the gross  negligence claim, so in any future amended pleading the Court expects such a  claim to be omitted.  The demurrer as to this  cause of action is moot.  Landlord Liability               Next,  Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot maintain his cause of action for landlord  liability. The California Supreme Court has unequivocally stated that a duty is  owed by the landlord to its tenant, arising out of their special  relationship. (Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.)  This case is relied upon by Plaintiff in his opposition brief, however, the  clear issue with this reliance is that Castaneda speaks to a  landlord-tenant relationship. Here, Plaintiff was not a tenant of Defendants’  premises. Further, as relied upon by Defendants in their moving papers, “[t]he  existence of the landlord’s duty to others to maintain the property in a  reasonably safe condition is a question of law for the court.” (Johnson v.  Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 79.) “The question is whether in the  management of his property, the possessor of land has acted as a reasonable  person under all the circumstances. The likelihood of injury to plaintiff, the  probable seriousness of such injury, the burden of reducing or avoiding the  risk, the location of the land, and the possessor’s degree of control over the  risk-creating condition are among the factors to be considered by the trier of  fact in evaluating the reasonableness of a defendant’s conduct.” (Sprecher  v. Adamson Companies (1981) 30 Cal.3d 358, 371.)               Here,  Plaintiff has conceded that Defendants had security present at the premises.  This allegation calls into question what exactly Plaintiff is alleging  Defendants to have done, i.e., what duty is alleged to exist and how did  defendants breach that duty?  Without  more, this Court notes that Plaintiff may not allege a cause of action for  landlord liability based on the facts as pleaded. The demurrer is SUSTAINED as  to this cause of action with twenty (20) days leave to amend.    Dereliction of Duty    Lastly,  Defendants argue that Plaintiff may not maintain a cause of action for  dereliction of duty. As noted by Defendants, such a cause of action is a  military offense, not a civil cause of action. Plaintiff agrees and strikes  this cause of action, noting that he intended to state the cause of action as  “Negligent Security.” As such, the demurrer as to this cause of action is now  mooted.     IV.  CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with  leave to amend, and mooted as to the third and fifth causes of action.    Defendants are ordered to give notice.