  Case Number:  23STCV14415    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendant's Motion
to Dismiss
 
Defendant's Motion
to Dismiss is denied. 
                                                                                                                                        
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Justin Beimforde (Plaintiff)
brought this action against William M. Lengyel
(Defendant), alleging breach of two listing agreements naming Plaintiff the
exclusive agent for the sale of Defendant’s interest in a piece of real
property. The sole cause of action is Breach of Contract.  
The motion now before the Court is Defendant's Motion to Dismiss.
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
1. The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice
of the declaratory relief judgment entered in the parties’ earlier action, the
instant Complaint, Plaintiff’s declaration in support of his Motion for
Reconsideration, and the complaint Plaintiff filed against Kirk J. Retz in
another action. 
2. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice
of the complaint filed in the prior action seeking declaratory relief.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A party may raise the defense of res judicata or claim
preclusion on a motion to dismiss supported by affidavits. Best v.
Fitzgerald (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 965, 967; see also Planning &
Conservation League v. Castaic Lake Water Agency (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th
210, 232.
“Under the doctrine of res judicata, once a plaintiff
prevails on his claim, the cause of action is merged into the judgment and the
plaintiff's only remaining right is on the judgment. This merger prohibits a
plaintiff from splitting a single cause of action into successive suits.” Craig
v. County of L.A. (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1294, 1301 (citation omitted). As a
general rule, “the prior judgment is res judicata on matters
which were raised or could have been raised, on matters litigated or litigable.”
Lortz v. Connell (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 286, 297 (Lortz). 
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant moves to dismiss this action on the basis of res
judicata, arguing that Plaintiff has previously brought a lawsuit on the same
facts, which resulted in a final adjudication. 
The general res judicata rule against splitting actions
is subject to an exception when the initial action is for purely declaratory
relief. Remedies obtained in an action for declaratory relief under Code of
Civil Procedure Chapter 8 “are cumulative, and shall not be construed as
restricting any remedy, provisional or otherwise, provided by law for the
benefit of any party to such action, and no judgment under this chapter shall
preclude any party from obtaining additional relief based upon the same facts.”
Code Civ. Proc., § 1062. Courts interpreting that provision have held “coercive
relief may or may not be requested in an action for declaratory relief,
a party will not be barred from seeking such relief by further proceedings
in the same or a new action.” Lortz, supra, 273 Cal.App.2d at p. 300.  
“[Declaratory relief] enables a party to get a prompt
adjudication without a dispute over the damages suffered” Id. at
301. This promotes judicial efficiency because when “the court determines
that a defendant is in breach of a contract, it is likely that the defendant
will comply with the contract rather than risk a subsequent suit for damages or
specific performance, since the prior declaratory judgment will serve as a
conclusive determination of defendant's breach.” Mycogen
Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 898 (Mycogne).  
Here, the Court takes judicial notice of a prior action
between the parties.  The complaint in
that action requested only declaratory relief. Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. A. Because
the prior action sought only declaratory relief, it does not preclude Plaintiff
from bringing the present action. See Lortz, supra, 273 Cal.App.2d at p.
300.  
Defendant argues that Plaintiff misrepresented when he
learned of the alleged breach of contract and that he was aware of the alleged
breach when he filed his initial lawsuit. Reply at p. 3:3-9. However,
Plaintiff's knowledge of the alleged breach at the time of the initial lawsuit
is irrelevant. The hope in seeking declaratory relief is that it will not be
necessary to sue for damages because the defendant will voluntarily comply with
the contract. Such relief is only effective because the plaintiff can bring a
subsequent action for damages where the earlier declaratory judgment has
preclusive effect. See Mycogen, supra, 28 Cal.4th 888, 898. 
In his reply, Defendant raises, for the first time, the
argument that Plaintiff’s suit is meritless because he failed to provide
necessary notification within 5 business days of the agreement's expiration,
Reply at p. 3:23-28. Because Defendant offers no reason for not raising this
issue earlier, the Court declines to address this argument. See, e.g., Nordstrom
Com. Cases (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 576, 583 (courts generally need not
accept arguments raised for the first time on reply without good cause explanation
as to why points were not raised earlier). Accordingly, the motion to dismiss
is denied.  
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant's Motion to Dismiss is denied. The Court will set
a Trial Setting Conference at the hearing. 