 Case Number:  22STCV19535    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Helio Marquez’s Motion to Vacate Default Judgment and Quash Service of Summons
is GRANTED.
 
OakTree
Law and Debra A. Tocalino’s Motions to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiffs
Juan Ramon Castro and Tomasa D. Portilo are GRANTED.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT
When service of a summons has not resulted in
actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default
judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve
and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and
for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed
within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two
years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days
after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default
judgment has been entered.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
473.5, subd. (a).)
 
Defendant Helio
Marquez seeks relief from the default and default judgment entered respectively
on October 20 and 21, 2022, on the grounds that service was not properly made
against him, and he lacked notice of this litigation until September 2023.
(Marquez Decl. ¶ 8.) Marquez also claims that substitute service was made on
5007 Eagle View Circle in Los Angeles, which is not his business or residence
address. (Marquez Decl. ¶¶ 3–6.)
 
A defendant may serve and file a motion to
quash service of summons on the grounds of a lack of jurisdiction over him or
her. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10 subd. (a)(1).) A plaintiff opposing a motion to
quash service for lack of personal jurisdiction “has the initial burden to
demonstrate facts establishing a basis for personal jurisdiction.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) If satisfied, the burden then shifts to defendant
to show that exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Id.)
Mere notice of litigation does not confer personal jurisdiction absent
substantial compliance with the statutory requirements for service of summons.
(MJS Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 555, 557.) While courts are not required to accept
self-serving evidence — such as declarations that one was not served —
submitted to support a motion to quash, facial defects of the proof of service
will rebut its presumption of proper service. (American Exp. Centurion Bank, supra,
199 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.) The burden is on a plaintiff to prove facts showing
that service was effective. (Summers v.
McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)
Here, Defendant has presented
evidence that he lacked notice of the litigation, and that the substitute
service alleged against him was not made upon his “dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual
mailing address,” as required by Code of Civil Procedure § 415.20, subd. (b).
No opposition has been filed.
The motion to vacate default judgment and quash service of summons is
therefore GRANTED.
 
II.               
MOTIONS TO
BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that
“[t]he attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time
before or after judgment or final determination” upon either consent of both
client and attorney, or upon the order of the court under application of either
the client of the attorney, after notice from one to the other. Cal. Rule of
Court 3.1362 states the requirements for a motion to be relieved as counsel
under CCP section 284. No memorandum is required, but the motion must be
accompanied by (1) a declaration stating why a motion has been brought instead
of filing a consent (without compromising attorney-client confidentiality), (2)
proof of service of the motion, and (3) all hearing dates scheduled in the
action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if know. Additionally, “[t]he
proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting
Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-053) and must be
lodged with the court with the moving papers.”
 
Oaktree Law and Debra A. Tocalino seek to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Juan Ramon Castro and Tomasa D. Portilo. The
basis for the motion is Plaintiffs’ failure to respond to their counsel’s
communications, particularly regarding the motion for relief from default being
heard concurrently with these motions. The motions comply wit the above
requirements.
 
The motions to be relieved as counsel are
therefore GRANTED.
 