  Case Number:  19SMCV00196    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Chiaverini,
et al. v. Busiashvili, et al., Case No. 19SMCV00196
Hearing
date April 16, 2024
Defendant
Busiashvili’s Motion for Order Permitting the Judge and Jury to View the
Properties of Plaintiffs and Defendant during Trial
In this
neighbor property dispute plaintiffs sue for (1) quiet title; (2) continuing
trespass; (3) ejectment; (4) common law and statutory damage to trees; (5)
negligence; (6) nuisance; and (7) declaratory and injunctive relief. Defendant
cross-complains for (1) declaratory relief; (2) quiet title; (3) negligence;
(4) private nuisance; (5) trespass; and (6) negligent trespass. 
Defendant
seeks an order permitting a property inspection during trial, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 651; see, e.g., People v. Fudge (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1075, 1104. The properties are located in a hillside area of Beverly
Hills, 13 miles from the court.
Defendants
argue surveys, photographs, videos and testimony alone are insufficient to
allow the jury to assess the claims and cross-claims and a site visit would “provide
the trier of fact with an exponentially better understanding of the
relationship of the properties to one another.” (Reply, p. 5:16-17). The motion
contains much argument regarding various claims, including adverse possession,
which is not the basis on which to consider the motion’s merits.
Moving party
fails to establish that evidence to be presented at trial, including surveys,
photographs, videos and testimony (both expert and percipient) alone are
insufficient to allow the finder of fact to come to a conclusion. Further, the remote
location would necessitate taking a day of trial, which is an undue consumption
of resources. Finally, the hillside properties may be inaccessible if jurors have
mobility issues. Moving party fails to meet the burden of showing such
inspection is necessary and fails to show other forms of evidence
are inadequate. DENIED.