 Case Number:  21NWCV00633    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  C PRISCILLA
OLAES vs RD RESTAURANT GROUP, INC., et al., Case no. 21NWCV00633
This ex
parte application seeks an order authorizing Emmanuel Olaes, Roslyn Granger, and
the Olaes Family Trust Dated June 25, 1991 to continue the lawsuit on behalf of
Plaintiff Priscilla Olaes following her death on December 21, 2023.  
Plaintiff entered
into seven Promissory Notes and Fixed Loan Agreements between February 1, 2008
and November 17, 2008 with Defendants RDR and Golden Den. Defendant David Kim
was a personal guarantor on the Notes.  Four
of the seven sets of Loan Documents provide that upon Mrs. Olaes’s death, they
are to be made payable to Emmanuel Olaes and Roslyn Granger. The other three
sets of Loan Documents provide that upon Mrs. Olaes’s death, they are to be
made payable to the Olaes Family Trust Dated June 25, 1991. Emmanuel Olaes is
the Trustee of the Trust.  
Defendants
argue that the proposed substituting parties are not the correct parties to continue
the lawsuit.  The Court had previously
ruled that Defendant David Kim’s liability is premised upon an August 26, 2020
letter he wrote to Plaintiff which created a new enforceable promise to pay a
debt that was otherwise unenforceable as to Defendant Kim.  Because the letter made no mention of who is
to receive payments upon Plaintiff’s death, Defendants argue that the ex parte
application should be denied and the case abated to allow the Executor/Personal
Representative of Plaintiff’s estate to file a substitution.
Absent an
agreement between the parties, the Court determines that the issue should be
decided by way of noticed motion. 
Accordingly, the ex parte application is DENIED.  A hearing is specially set for Tuesday, April
9, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  Moving,
Opposition, and Reply Briefs are to be filed and served in compliance with the
new hearing date.  The parties should
seek a trial continuance in Dept. F.  Moving
party to give notice.  