 Case Number:  23NWCV03548    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  C Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of
America vs Blue Atlantic Partners, LLC
Case No.: 23NWCV03548
Hearing Date: January 29, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Defendant Blue Atlantic Partners, LLC’s
motion to set aside/vacate is GRANTED.
II.           
Plaintiff Teachers Insurance and Annuity
Association of America’s unopposed Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED.
III.         
The Court imposes monetary sanctions against
Defendant Marcellus Ellis and Counsel, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount $2,732.50, payable within 30 days. 

Plaintiff to give notice.  
 
Defendant Blue Atlantic Partners, LLC moves for an Order to
Set Aside Entry of Judgment due to mistake and/or excusable neglect. (CCP §
473(b).)
Plaintiff Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of
America (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling Defendant Marcellus Ellis to
appear and testify at his deposition at least 5 days before trial and to
produce documents.  
Background 
Plaintiff commenced this action on November 3, 2023, by
filing a Verified Complaint for Unlawful Detainer by which Plaintiff seeks to
recover possession of the commercial premises that it owns located at 10032
Pioneer Blvd, Santa Fe Springs, CA 90670 ("Premises"), which
defendants have been using and occupying since August of 2023 without paying
rent. (Jorgensen Decl., at ¶ 2.) 
On November 15, 2023, Defendant Ellis filed a Prejudgment
Claim of Right to Possession, together with a verified Answer – Unlawful
Detainer, thereby adding himself as a defendant in the action. (Jorgensen Decl.
¶ 2, Exhs. A and B.) Default was entered against Defendant Blue Atlantic
Partners on November 28, 2023.  Trial was
originally set as to Defendant Ellis for December 22, 2023, but was thereafter
continued at the request of Defendant’s counsel, first to January 17, 2024 and
then to January 31, 2024, to allow time for the court to conduct a hearing on a
motion filed by Defendant Blue Atlantic Partners to set aside its default.
(Jorgensen Decl. ¶ 3.)
A.   Motion
to Set Aside Entry of Default
Legal Standard 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted….” (CCP §473(b).
Discussion 
Defendant Blue Atlantic Partners contends that when it was
served with the Unlawful Detainer Complaint, it hired a legal preparation
office who led it to believe it was going to properly prepare Defendant’s
Answer, yet failed to inform Defendant it could not legally represent on behalf
of Defendant’s company. (Ellis Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) After hiring the legal
preparation office, Defendant realized that the legal preparation office
prepared an Answer under Defendant’s owner personal name, and not that of the
Defendant BLUE ATLANTIC PARTNERS, LLC, thus leading to the Answer being
rejected. (Ellis Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Defendant Blue Atlantic, has now retained counsel who has
filed the instant motion. 
In Opposition, Plaintiff offers that where a party chooses
to “proceed without a lawyer; voluntarily representing himself he is not, for
that reason, entitled to any more (or less) consideration than a lawyer [and]
any alleged ignorance of legal matters or failure to properly represent himself
can hardly constitute ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect’ as
those terms are used in section 473.” (Goodson v. the Bogerts, Inc.
(1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 32, 40.) However, the Court notes that Plaintiff is not
attempting to represent himself, but rather the corporation entity of Blue
Atlantic. 
The Court finds that, here, Defendant has appropriately
outlined his mistaken belief that the corporate entity could represent itself. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to set aside is GRANTED. 
 
B.   Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant Marcellus Ellis
Legal Standard 
CCP
§ 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to
the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the
deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410. The
objecting party has the burden to justify objections asserted, (See Denari
v. Superior Court (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1488, 1494-95.) Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.480, subdivision (a) permits parties to bring a motion to compel
the appearance of a deponent that failed to answer any question or produce
documents. Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610, subdivision (b) also
permits a party to take a further deposition of a person upon the order of the
Court for “good cause shown.” (McCoy v. Gustafson (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th
56, 97.)
Further, “the scope of questioning at a
deposition is very broad. Objections for ‘irrelevancy’ are difficult to
sustain and instructions not to answer on that basis are never proper.”  (Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2011) ¶ 8:704, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  California Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.480
states in pertinent part: “(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. (b) This motion shall be made no
later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(See also Unzipped Apparel v. Bader, (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.)
Discussion 
On January 5, 2024, PLAINTIFF noticed Defendant’s
deposition to commence on January 16, 2024. (Jorgensen Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. D.) The
deposition notice, which was served on counsel of record by e-service as
required by California Rule of Court 2.251(c)(3), required Defendant to appear
and testify and produce certain categories of documents. (Id.) In Plaintiff’s
counsel’s email transmitting the notice of deposition to Defendant’s counsel,
she stated that “(i)f the date I selected is not convenient for you or Mr.
Ellis, I am happy to meet and confer regarding an alternate date, so long as
the deposition can be concluded the week of January 16” before Defendant’s
counsel had previously represented he would be leaving for vacation scheduled
for the week of January 22. (Jorgensen Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. E.) After receiving no
response, Plaintiff’s counsel followed up by email to Defendant’s counsel on
January 9, requesting that he let her know whether the deposition would be
proceeding as currently scheduled or whether he would be proposing an
alternative date that week. Mr. Partiyeli responded to that email stating,
without explanation, that “(t)he date won’t work” but failed to propose any
alternative dates. (Jorgensen Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. F.) Despite repeated requests by
Plaintiff’s counsel that Mr. Partiyeli propose an alternative date for his
client’s deposition, Mr. Partiyeli has refused to propose any date at all prior
to the date of trial. Notably, Defendant and his counsel have not given any
reason for the refusal to propose an alternative date during the week of
January 16, 2023, instead filing boilerplate objections stating simply that
they are “unavailable.” Nor has Defendant sought a protective order with
respect to the deposition. (Jorgensen Decl., ¶¶ 8-12, and Exhs. F-H.) In light
of Defendant’s and his counsel’s refusal to appear at the scheduled deposition,
refusal, without explanation, to propose an alternative date prior to January
26 upon which the deposition can proceed, and notwithstanding Plaintiff’s
counsel’s numerous attempts to meet and confer and multiple attempts to
accommodate their schedule, Plaintiff felt left with no recourse but to seek an
order compelling Defendant’s attendance.
Plaintiff provides that it properly and timely served
Defendant with the deposition notice, Defendant did not serve any valid
objection to the deposition notice, Defendant and his counsel have refused to
meet and confer in good faith regarding a reasonable alternative date upon
which Defendant will appear, and Defendant has failed to produce for inspection
the documents described in the deposition notice. (Jorgensen Decl. ¶¶ 4-12.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel is GRANTED. 
Sanctions
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030 provides:  
 
The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction
is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that
sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the
sanction unjust. 
 
(Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
Sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Plaintiff noticed the
deposition for Marcellus Ellis, and Defendant did not produce Mr. Ellis,
causing Plaintiff to file the instant motion. 
 
Here, the Court does not find that Plaintiff acted with
substantial justification in failing to appear for the deposition. Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $5,695.00 due to Plaintiff’s
failure to appear at the deposition for 3.0 hours attempting to informally
resolve the discovery dispute, 8.0 hours preparing the instant motion and ex
parte motion, and 2.0 hours attending the hearing at a rate of $395.00, along
with costs of $500.00 for the Court reporter and $60.00 for the filing fee. (Jorgensen
Decl. ¶ 13.)  Given the lack of
opposition and the simplicity of the motion, the Court finds the amount excessive.  The Court imposes sanctions in the reduced
amount of $2,732.50 (5.5 hours at $395.00 per hour, plus $500.00 for the
services of the court reporter and $60 for the filing fee) against Defendant
Ellis and Counsel, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.     
 