 Case Number:  22NWCV01420    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  C Manuel Herrera Gonzalez, et al. vs Maria Merced
Moreno
Case No.: 22NWCV01420
Hearing Date: January 30, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.  
 
#2
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside and Vacate
Order of Dismissal under CCP § 473(b) is GRANTED.  
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
No opposition filed as of January 26, 2024.  
 
Background 
This matter is related to a motor vehicle collision occurring
on November 29, 2020. 
On November 23, 2022, Plaintiffs Manuel Herrera Gonzalez,
Rosa Elia Barajas Valencia, and Sofia Herrera Barajas filed a Complaint against
Defendant Maria Merced Morea. 
On July 31, 2023, Plaintiffs’ Counsel failed to appear at a
case management conference. An order to show cause re dismissal was scheduled. 
On November 23, 2023, the Court entered an order of
dismissal.  
On December 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion to set aside
and vacate dismissal. 
 
Legal Standard 
“The
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted….” (emphasis added.) (CCP §473(b).) 
Plaintiffs move to vacate the
dismissal under CCP § 473(b) on the grounds that the action was dismissed as a
result of their attorney’s mistake and inadvertence.  Plaintiffs’ counsel admits that the execution
of the Request for Dismissal was the “result of [his] own mistake and
inadvertence.” (Declaration of Ricardo A. Perez, ¶ 4.) Counsel attests he accidentally
and mistakenly failed to appear for a hearing on November 22, 2023, so the
Court dismissed the above-entitled matter. (Mot., p. 3.)  The motion is unopposed.  
This motion originally came before the Court for a hearing
on January 2, 2024.  On that date, the
Court determined that Plaintiffs’ counsel had demonstrated mistake and
inadvertence under CCP § 473(b), but
Plaintiffs had not submitted an amended complaint as required by the statute.  The court continued the hearing to today’s
date to give Plaintiffs an opportunity to cure the procedural defect.  Plaintiffs were ordered to re-file and
re-serve an Amended Motion to Set Aside Dismissal accompanied by an Amended
Complaint. The Amended Moving Papers, Opposition, and Reply papers were to be
filed and served per Code in accordance with the new hearing date.  Plaintiffs failed to file an Amended Motion
to Set Aside Dismissal and Amended Complaint within the time prescribed by CCP
§ 1005.  However, Plaintiffs did file an
Amended Motion with an accompanying Amended Complaint on January 26, 2024 and
Defendant still has not indicated any opposition.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Order of Dismissal is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs’ Amended Complaint must be
separately filed and served.  
 
 
 