  Case Number:  21NWCV00133    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  C Saadia Square LLC vs All-Ways Pacific, LLC, et
al.
Case No.: 21NWCV00133
Hearing Date: January 30, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#1 
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Saadia Square, LLC’s Motion for Judgement
on the Pleadings is DENIED.
II.           
Saadia Square, LLC’s Motion to Dismiss is MOOT.

 
Opposing parties to give notice. 
 
Background 
In the First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) filed May 22,
2023, Cross-Complainants (“All-Ways”) allege that on March 11, 2020, SM
Logistics Rialto LLC (“SM Rialto”) entered into a lease with RD Real Estate
Holdings, LLC f/k/a Rialto Holdings, LLC (“RH”) which gave RH the exclusive
option to purchase the Property. (FAXC, ¶ 47.) Promptly after execution, a
memorandum of the lease and option was recorded. (Id.) Saadia Square, LLC (“Saadia”)
participated in and was apprised of SM Rialto’s negotiations to enter into a
lease and option with All-Ways. (FAXC, ¶¶ 28-46, 48-51, 52-54.) Further, on
January 24, 2020, SM Rialto sent Saadia a side-by-side comparison of the lease
and option terms proposed by All Ways and Chic Home Designs LLC (“Chic”) (Id.,
¶ 42.) And after Saadia informed SM Rialto that “Chic [was] no longer
interested” in the Property on February 16, 2020, Saadia continued to monitor
SM Rialto’s negotiations with All-Ways. (Id., ¶¶ 45, 48-50.) Then with full
knowledge of the lease and Option, Saadia laid in wait for nine months while RD
and RH performed under those agreements, without ever once mentioning the ROFO.
(Id., ¶¶ 7, 40-46.) Only after the Property’s value skyrocketed did Saadia make
the strategic business decision to leverage its inferior ROFO as RMH began
preparations to exercise the Option. (Id., ¶¶ 52-57.) Saadia initially sought
to interfere with the Option by asking SM Rialto to find “foot-faults” under
the lease and Option, and when that failed, by sending SM a “reminder” of
Saadia’s purported “right of first refusal” on January 12, 2021.4 (Id., ¶¶ 8-9,
52-56.) Saadia engaged in this conduct even though it knew that its ROFO had
already been honored or waived and knew (or should have known) that the Option
was superior to Saadia’s unrecorded ROFO. (FAXC, ¶¶ 7, 10, 56.) Saadia’s
interfering conduct caused damages by “delay[ing] the closing of the
transaction by several months, and caus[ing] All-Ways to incur millions of
dollars in increased costs to purchase the Property.” (FAXC, ¶ 57.)
Based thereon, the First Amended Cross-Complaint by
All-Ways brings causes of action for 1) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations, and 2) Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Saadia moves for an order
granting Judgment on the Pleadings under CCP § 438 on the grounds that the
pleading fails to allege a viable cause of action.  Saadia also moves for dismissal on the
grounds that various All-Ways entities lack the capacity to sue.
 
I.            
Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings 
Legal Standard 
A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the
“complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 438, subds. (b)(1) and
(c)(1)(B)(ii).) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.
Presentation of extrinsic evidence is … not proper on a motion for judgment on
the pleadings.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
995, 999, citations omitted.) 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer:
that under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law. (Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205,
1216.) Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as
part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties;
matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in
the notice of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court
otherwise permits. (Ibid., at fn. 5.) The court “must accept as true all
material facts properly pleaded, but does not consider¿conclusions¿of¿law¿or
fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or facts that are
judicially noticed.” (Stevenson Real Estate Services, Inc. v. CB Richard
Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-1220,
citing¿Shea Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda¿(2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.) 
Upon granting a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the
court should also grant leave to amend the deficient complaint as long as there
is a reasonable possibility its deficiencies might be cured by amendment. (Mendoza
v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402.) The burden of
demonstrating the possibility that the deficiencies might be cured, however,
rests squarely on the plaintiff. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) 
Discussion 
The elements of a cause of action for Intentional
Interference with Economic Relations are: (1) the existence, between the
plaintiff and some third party, of an economic relationship that contains the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption ofthe relationship; and (5)
economic harm proximately caused by the defendant's action." (Roy Allan
Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505,
512.)
The elements of a cause of
action for Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations are: (1) Plaintiff had a valid and existing contract with a third
party; (2) defendant had knowledge of the contract; (3) defendant committed
intentional and unjustified acts designed to interfere with or disrupt the
contract; (4) actual interference with or disruption of the relationship; and (5)
resulting damages.  (Shamblin v. Berge
(1985) 166 Cal. App. 3d 118, 123.)
 
Here, Saadia argues that “the
FAXC is barred by the common interest privilege because All-Ways merely alleges
that Saadia communicated regarding its rights. Parties are free to talk
regarding their good-faith legal positions.” (Motion, pp. 9-10, emphasis in
original.)  “[C]ourts have long
recognized that a rival claimant of property is privileged to disparage or is
justified in disparaging another’s interest in the property by an honest and
good faith assertion of an inconsistent legally protected interest in himself.”
(Hill v. Allan (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 470, 490.)  
 
Saadia does not specify which of its communications it
believes to be privileged.  In other
litigation before the court, Saadia has objected to the use of Jack Saadia’s
January 12, 2021 email to SM reminding them of Saadia’s ROFO.  Paragraph 56 of the FAXC alleges: “Jack
Saadia sent an email to SM and MSD Partners purporting to “remind” them that
“Saadia Group” had a “right of refusal” on the Property.”  Yet, Saadia fails to explain how the common
interest privilege would apply to a statement such as this and Saadia cites no
authority for application of the privilege to the circumstances of this
case.  Saadia’s claim of privilege simply
sweeps too far.  Moreover, as All-Ways
points out, the FAXC alleges more than communication by Saadia; it also alleges
Saadia engaged in conduct which amounts to intentional
interference.  The FAXC alleges that as
All-Ways prepared to purchase the Property in late 2020, Saadia began to
contact his co-investors (including SM) to inquire about ways to derail the
sale of the Property to All-Ways, including finding “foot faults” that could
default All-Ways under its lease or under its Option. (FAXC, ¶ 9.) The Court
determines that Plaintiff has not made a prima facie showing that the common
interest privilege applies in this case. 

Saadia argues that the FAXC fails to allege malice.  The FAXC alleges that Jack Saadia knew that a
lease and option agreement between All-Ways and SM Rialto was imminent, yet he
remained silent about and concealed Saadia’s unrecorded ROFO. (FAXC, ¶¶ 46, 48,
51.) When his efforts to manufacture “foot faults” did not succeed (FAXC, ¶ 9) Saadia
“decided to assert the ROFO he had abandoned to capitalize on the increased
value of the Property and prevent All-Ways from consummating its purchase of
the Property. (FAXC, ¶ 54.)  At this
stage of the proceedings, the Court finds that malice has been sufficiently
alleged.
Next, Saadia argues that the FAXC fails to allege causation
because it was SM Rialto that breached its contract with RH by failing to
deliver clean title.  The FAXC alleges that
by asserting its abandoned ROFO, Saadia prevented SM Rialto from delivering
clean title to All-Ways, thereby delaying the closing of the transaction by
several months and causing All-Ways to incur damages. (FAXC, ¶ 11.)  Based thereon, the court finds that the FAXC
adequately alleges that Saadia’s conduct caused All-Ways to incur damages.
Accordingly, Saadia’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
is DENIED.
 
II.           
Motion to Dismiss
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion 

Saadia asserts that All-Ways
Pacific, LLC, and All-Ways Far East, LLC, have failed to register to transact
business in this state and All-Ways Forwarding International, Inc. has had its
corporate charter suspended.  Plaintiff
argues that these organizations lack capacity to sue. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides: The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code. (Code of Civil Procedure
§ 473(a)(1).)
In light of All-Ways Pacific, LLC’s name change on May 11,
2023, the First Amended Cross Complaint should have been brought on behalf of
Rialto Pacific LLC f/k/a All-Ways Pacific, LLC. The Court should permit the
First Amended Cross-Complaint to be amended to address this naming issue.  
With respect to All-Ways Far East, LLC and All-Ways
Forwarding International, Inc., they are not registered to do business in the
state of California. Nor are they necessary parties to this action.
Accordingly, those entities are dismissed from this action and are stricken
from the complaint. (Code of Civil Procedure § 473(a)(1).)
Accordingly, Rialto Pacific LLC f/k/a All-Ways Pacific, LLC
is ORDERED to file an amended complaint within 20 days. Upon doing so, the
Motion to Dismiss will become MOOT.  