 Case Number:  22NWCV00698    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  C Kenneth B. Horton, et al. vs Mercedes-Benz USA,  LLC, et al. Case No.: 22NWCV00698 Hearing Date: January 30, 2024 @ 10:30 AM   #7  Tentative Ruling  Defendants WINNEBAGO INDUSTRIES, INC. and MIKE  THOMPSON RV 1’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED as to first, second, and  third causes of action.  Opposing party to give notice.    Background  This is a lemon law case involving a 2018 Winnebago 524D  motorhome ("RV") purchased from Defendant Mike Thompson RV.  Plaintiffs, KENNETH B. HORTON and CHRISTINA DUDKA (hereinafter  "Plaintiffs") filed their Complaint with the Los Angeles County  Superior Court on August 2, 2022. The Complaint asserts three causes of action  under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act ("Song-Beverly") against  Defendants Winnebago Industries, Inc. ("WNB"), Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC  ("MBUSA"), and Mike Thompson RV 1 ("MTRV"): (1) Breach of  Express Warranty; (2) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (3)  Breach of Implied Warranty of Fitness for a Particular Purpose. WNB and MTRV  filed their Answer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint on September 19, 2022.  Plaintiffs purchased a 2018 Winnebago 524D motorhome  ("RV") from MTRV on February 24, 2018. In conjunction with the sale  of the RV, WNB issued a Limited Warranty which covered the coach-portion of the  RV, MBUSA issued a New Vehicle Limited Warranty which covered the chassis  portion of the RV. Legal Standard  Summary  judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a Defendants  seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more  elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be  established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of  action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A Defendants may satisfy this burden  by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of  evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v.  Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the Defendants  meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable  issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or  defense thereto.”  (Id.)      The  moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie  showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.  Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A Defendants  moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of  the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete  defense to that cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p).)  A Defendants  may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the  required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks  evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a Defendants  chooses the latter option, he or she must present evidence “and not simply  point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed  evidence….” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66.)   [A]  Defendants may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element  of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather  than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a Defendants  moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting  the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The Defendants  may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the  plaintiff's cause of action. The Defendants may also present evidence that the  plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as  through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect  that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case.  (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a Defendants’ initial  evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's  witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions  by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he  or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the  cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p.  110.)  In other words, a Defendants may show the plaintiff does not  possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of  presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an  absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie  Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)    Thus,  a moving Defendants has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under  the summary judgment statute: “The Defendants may rely upon factually  insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff  cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon.  [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the Defendants may utilize the tried and true  technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's  cause of action.” (Leyva  v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.)    Until  the moving Defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff  has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving Defendants has  discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the  plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable  issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.   (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the  moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his  opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary  judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v.  Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)    Objections Defendants’ objection to the Declaration of William Zimmer  is OVERRULED. Discussion  Defendants contend the Limited Warranty included a one-year  basic limited warranty and a three-year structural limited warranty. WNB's  basic limited warranty provides: "Winnebago promises that any part of this  motorhome - except those identified in paragraph entitled, 'Excluded from Basic  Coverage' found to be defective in material or workmanship shall be repaired or  replaced at no cost to the owner for parts, material, or labor so long as the  motorhome has been used exclusively for recreational purposes and maintained as  recommended in the Operator's Manual.” The "Excluded from Basic  Coverage" section of Defendants’ basic limited warranty explicitly  excludes the following from the warranty coverage: "Parts, accessories, or  equipment installed, or modifications or alterations made after the motorhome  leaves the factory... a part or component covered under a warranty issued by  its manufacturer (for example, the chassis, drivetrain, wheels, tires;  electronics and appliances)..." Defendants contends its Limited Warranty  does not cover the chassis battery, rims or tires. (UMF No. 8). WNB's Basic  limited warranty "begins on the date of retail delivery... [and] ends  after 12 months or when the vehicle's odometer registers 15,000  miles...whichever is sooner." Since taking possession of the RV,  Plaintiffs presented the RV for repairs on three occasions to an authorized WNB  dealer, Giant RV. (UMF No. 10). Plaintiffs never reported the same issue to  Giant RV more than two times. Defendants additionally maintain Plaintiffs first presented  the RV to Giant RV on August 8, 2018, when the odometer read 4,565 miles, for  issues related to the key fob, kitchen ceiling light, closet light, passenger  side reverse light, and the door blind. (UMF No. 12). The issue with the closet  light was repaired on this visit and Plaintiff did not report the issue again. On October 4, 2018, when the odometer read 10,853 miles, Plaintiff  returned to Giant RV for issues related to the key fob, kitchen ceiling light,  drawer in kitchen, bed not coming down, passenger side rear tire flat, rear  wheel cover came off, driver's side forward window curtain off track, and  passenger side magnet fell off. (UMF No. 14). Giant RV repaired all the  coach-related issues and Plaintiff never reported any of these issues to Giant  RV or any authorized Winnebago repair facilities again, except for the wheel  cover that was ordered on this visit and later installed. (UMF No. 15). As to  the passenger side rear tire issue Plaintiff reported on the October 4, 2018  repair visit, Giant RV advised Plaintiff to take the RV to a Mercedes dealer  for repairs as this relates to the chassis-portion of the RV. (UMF No.  16).  On November 19, 2018, Plaintiffs  returned to Giant RV to have the wheel cover that was previously ordered  installed, which was done as goodwill; Plaintiffs did not report any complaints  on this visit. (UMF No. 17). The remaining repair visits were to repair  facilities not authorized by Defendants for non-coach-related issues such as  the rims, which is a component part not covered by Defendants’ Limited  Warranty. (UMF No. 18) Plaintiff identified the following four issues with the RV  at the time of his deposition: (1) two cracked rims—the passenger, rear, inner  rim is cracked, along with the spare; (2) the window blinds in the cab are  offtrack on the driver's side; (3) the chassis battery is dead; and (4) the  driver's side reverse light does not work. (UMF No. 24). The issues with the  chassis battery and rims are both expressly excluded WNB's Limited Warranty.  (UMF No. 25). The issue with the passenger reverse light was subject to a  single repair attempt and never reported to a Defendants dealer again. (UMF No.  26). The issue with the driver's side window blinds was subjected to two repair  attempts and never reported to an  authorized  repair facility after the second attempt. I.              Breach of Express Warranty  Plaintiff pursuing an action under the Act has the burden  to prove that the good had a nonconformity covered by the express warranty that  substantially impaired its use, value or safety (the nonconformity element);  (2) the good was presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer  of the good for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or  his representative did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of  repair attempts (the failure to repair element). (Oregel v. Am. Isuzu  Motors, Inc., 90 Cal. App. 4th 1094, 1101 (2001).) "By virtue of section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2), the  chassis portion of a motorhome is included in the definition of a new motor  vehicle, but the coach portion is not included for purposes of the 'Lemon  Law.'" (National R. V., Inc. v. Foreman, (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th  1072, 1078-79). Section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2), excludes motorhome coaches  by specific reference to the definition of motor vehicle contained in section  1793.22, subdivision (e)(2). (Id. at 1081.) Thus, "the law exempts  motorhome coaches from the specific provisions of the "Lemon Law,"  but not from the general provisions of the Act that apply to consumer  goods." (Id.) "The products that fall under the regulations of  the Song-Beverly Act are those products defined as 'consumer goods.'" (Id.  at 1082.) “A manufacturer's liability for breach of an express  warranty derives from, and is measured by, the terms of that warranty.  Accordingly, the requirements imposed by an express warranty claim are not  imposed under State law, but rather imposed by the warrantor." (Cipollone  v. Liggett Group, Inc. (1992) 505 U.S. 504, 525.) "Express warranties  are voluntary, and nothing in the code shall affect the right of a manufacturer  to make them." (Cal. 18 Civ. Code § 1793.) Here, Defendants argue the Limited Warranty covers only the  coach portion of the RV and expressly excludes parts, accessories, or equipment  installed, or modifications or alterations made after the motorhome leaves the  factory, as well as the chassis portion of the RV as that is covered by Defendants’  express warranty.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of  fact.   To establish a breach of express warranty, Plaintiffs must  have presented the vehicle two or more times because the statute indicates that  a manufacturer must be given a reasonable number of attempts to repair the  vehicle – where the word “attempts” is notably plural. (See Civ. Code, §  1792.2, subd. (d); Silvio v. Ford Motor Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1208.)  Every presentation of the vehicle for repairs counts as a “repair attempt”  under the law and is counted towards the opportunities Defendants was given to  repair the vehicle. Plaintiff alleges numerous defects related to both the  chassis and the coach. As described above, Plaintiffs presented the vehicle to Defendants’  authorized dealerships for repair of various defects on at least two occasions.  Plaintiff alleges that problems with the window blinds still persist. (SSDF No.  11.) Therefore, even if all chassis-related defects are excluded, there is  still a triable issue of fact as to whether Defendants breached the express  warranty because, as described in detail above, Plaintiffs presented the  vehicle the statutory minimum of two times, and any further determination  regarding reasonableness is a question of fact for the jury to decide. Plaintiff presents a triable issue of fact. Accordingly,  the summary judgment motion as to the first cause of action is DENIED.  II.             Breach of Implied Warranty of  Merchantability  Under Song-Beverly, "every sale of consumer goods that  are sold at retail in this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's and  the retail seller's implied warranty that the goods are merchantable."  (Cal. Civ. Code, § 1792.) The "implied warranty of merchantability  provides for a minimum level of quality, but it does not impose a general  requirement that goods precisely fulfill the expectation of the buyer." (Gutierrez  v. Carmax Auto Superstores Cal., (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 25 1234, 1271.) Here, Plaintiffs took the RV on seven trips since the date  of purchase in February of 2018, with at least three of these trips being  within the first year of ownership. Defendants argues Plaintiffs did not notice  any coach-related issues with the RV on their first two trips in April July of  2018. Plaintiffs took the RV on a trip to Joshua Tree in February of 2020 and  did not notice any issues with the RV. Accordingly, Defendants maintains the RV  was sold in a merchantable condition and Plaintiffs' continued use of the RV  establishes that the RV was fit for its intended purpose of recreational  camping. As such, Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ cause of action for breach of  implied warranty of merchantability against Defendants fails as a matter of law  and WNB and MTRV are entitled to a judgment in their favor. The burden now shifts to  Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact.  Plaintiffs contend they did experience defects with the  coach portion of the vehicle during a trip within the first year of ownership.  On a trip to Thayne, Wyoming in fall of 2018, Plaintiff Kenneth Horton  experienced the ceiling light continuing to be inoperable after it had already  been presented for repair on a previous occasion. (AMF No. 10.) The vehicle  also had a kitchen drawer that would not secure and the murphy bed would not  come down. (Id.)  The Court finds there is a triable issue of fact that the  jury must decide whether the vehicle was of the same quality as those generally  accepted in the trade based on the evidence in this case, including repair  orders and testimony of Plaintiffs and experts. Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment as to the  second cause of action is DENIED.  III.           Cause of Action for Breach of  Implied Warranty of Fitness for a Particular Purpose  "Every sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail  in this state by a manufacturer who has reason to know at the time of the  retail sale that the goods are required for a particular purpose and that the  buyer is relying on the manufacturer's skill or judgment to select or furnish  suitable goods shall be accompanied by such manufacturer's implied warranty of  fitness." As an initial matter, pleading a cause of action for breach of  implied warranty for a particular purpose requires pleading facts showing what  that particular purpose was. (Cal Civ. Code § 1792.1) Accordingly, "[a]n  implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose arises only where (1) the  purchaser at the time of contracting intends to use the goods for a particular  purpose, (2) the seller at the time of contracting has reason to know of this  particular purpose, (3) the buyer relies on the seller's skill or judgment to  select or furnish goods suitable for the particular purpose, and (4) the seller  at the time of contracting has reason to know that the buyer is relying on such  skill and judgment. (Keith v. Buchanan, (1985) 173 Cal. App. 3d 13, 20.) Here, Defendants argue that there are no facts suggesting  that Plaintiffs purchased the RV for any reason other than to use it for the  ordinary purpose for which such goods are sold. Defendants argue that  Plaintiffs lack any facts to suggest that Plaintiffs had a particular purpose,  that Defendants were aware of such particular purpose, and how Plaintiffs  relied on Defendants’ skill and judgment in purchasing the RV.   The burden shifts to Plaintiff  to raise a triable issue of fact.  The Courts finds that Plaintiffs, individuals who do not  work in the automotive or motorhome industry, went to a dealership specializing  in the sale and repair of motorhomes to purchase a motorhome. Motorhomes are a  specialized good with an obvious specialized purpose: to live in while  travelling. Plaintiffs intended to travel across the country in the vehicle,  sleep in it, and hook it up to campgrounds. (AMF No. 15.) Defendants’ separate statement admits that the vehicle was  purchased for personal travel. (DMF No. 2.) Accordingly, Plaintiff raises a triable issue of fact, and Defendants’  motion for summary judgment as to the third of cause of action is DENIED. Horton v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC 22NWCV00698

Plaintiffs' Ex Parte Application to Advance the Hearing on
Plaintiffs' Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (set
one) is DENIED. The parties are not foreclosed from seeking a
continuance of the trial date in Dept. SE-F, if necessary. Moving Party to give
notice. 

 

 