  Case Number:  21STCV23920    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Mikel Rastegar’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Mikel Rastegar demurs to all 10 causes of action alleged in the first amended
cross-complaint (FACC) by Mark Blankenship and Jennifer Harper.  
Cross-complainants
filed untimely oppositions on May 2, 2024. 
In the past the court has considered cross-complainants’ untimely
oppositions.  This time it will not.  The court exercises its discretion not to
consider the untimely oppositions by cross-complainants.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)  Cross-complainants are admonished that they
must file their papers in a timely way in the future.   
1.
Fraud
            The FACC does not allege sufficient
facts to constitute fraud.  Fraud
requires “(a)
misrepresentation; (b) defendant’s knowledge of the statement’s falsity; (c)
intent to defraud (i.e., to induce action in reliance on the
misrepresentation); (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Hunter v. Up-Right, Inc. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 1174, 1184.)  “[F]raud must be pled specifically.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “ ‘This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which
show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
            The
FACC does not specifically allege a misrepresentation.  It alleges, “Cross Defendant
misrepresented to Cross Complainant that in exchange for the Cross Complainants
agreeing to pay rent that the Cross Defendants would provide habitable premises
and would not stalk and harass and abuse process and destroy the lives of the Cross
Complainants
at every level, essentially manipulating the entire Agreement to become a
torture chamber for the Cross Complainants.” 
(¶ 44.)  
Assuming
the alleged representation that Rastegar “would provide habitable premises” is
sufficient, the FACC does not specify how, when, where, or by what means those
representations were tendered.  The
remainder of the alleged misrepresentation, that Rastegar “would not stalk and
harass and abuse process and destroy the lives of the Cross Complainants at
every level, essentially manipulating the entire Agreement to become a torture
chamber for the Cross Complainants” is so vague and jumbled that it does not
satisfy the general standard of pleading, let alone the higher standard for
alleging fraud.
2.
Breach of contract
            The FACC does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  Its
elements are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
            The FACC alleges a contract: “a de facto periodic month-to-month
tenancy” with $4,800 in monthly rent.  (¶
15.)  It does not, however, allege
cross-complainants performed their obligations under the contract—i.e., paying
their rent.  The FACC refers to various
excuses for nonperformance.  For example,
it alleges that after February 2020, “Defendant believes that the $4800 monthly
rent payment as of that point should be reduced significantly (at least by
Fifty Percent (50%) during this period.” 
(¶ 19.)  But it neither alleges (a)
sufficient facts to establish such an excuse for nonperformance, nor (b) that
they paid 50% of the rent.  
3. Breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing
            The
FACC does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  The elements of this cause of action are the
same as for breach of contract, except with breach of the implied covenant
instead of breach of an express contract term. 
Thus, the plaintiff must allege: (1) a contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant prevented plaintiff
from receiving the benefits under the contract; (4) in doing so, defendant did
not act fairly and in good faith; and (5) defendant’s conduct harmed
plaintiff.  (See CACI No. 325.)  As discussed above, the FACC does not allege
sufficient facts to constitute the second element.
4. Conversion and theft
            The
FACC alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “The
basic elements of [conversion] are (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of personal property; (2) the defendant’s disposition of the
property in a manner that is inconsistent with the plaintiff’s property rights;
and (3) resulting damages.”  (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  
            The FACC alleges Rastegar effected an “illegal lockout, in
the process converting and stealing the personal property of Cross Complainants
and marooning it under lock and key.”  (¶
33.)  It alleges Rastegar did not “inventory
the personal property and keep it safe” or “notify the Cross Defendants in
writing and providing official Notice.” 
(¶ 34.)  It further alleges the
property is “still not yet returned.”  (¶
54.)
            Rastegar’s demurrer argues the FACC “ignore[s] the fact
that the personal property was left or abandoned on the Premise was wholly
abandoned by the Cross Plaintiffs despite several notices’ and warnings.”  (Demurrer, p. 11.)  In reviewing a complaint challenged by
demurrer, the court must “accept as true all the material facts properly
pleaded” and does not “go beyond the four corners of the complaint, except as
to matters which may be judicially noticed.” 
(Thornburn v. Department of Corrections (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1284, 1287-1288.)  The demurrer to this
cause of action relies on extrinsic facts.  
5. Abuse of Process
The FACC does not allege
sufficient facts for abuse of process.  The
“essential elements of’ abuse of process are “ ‘an ulterior purpose’ ” and “ ‘a
wilful act in the use of the process not proper in the regular conduct of the
proceeding.’ ”  (Templeton Feed and
Grain v. Ralston Purina Co. (1968) 69 Cal.2d 461, 466.)  “ ‘Some definite act or threat not authorized by the process, or aimed
at an objective not legitimate in the use of the process, is required; and
there is no liability where the defendant has done nothing more than carry out
the process to its authorized conclusion, even though with bad intentions.  The improper purpose usually takes the form of
coercion to obtain a collateral advantage, not properly involved in the
proceeding itself, such as the surrender of property or the payment of money,
by the use of the process as a threat or a club.’ ”  (Spellens v. Spellens (1957) 49 Cal.2d
210, 232.)
The FACC alleges Rastegar committed abuse of
process “By obtaining possession of the premises by stealth Default Judgment with
a bogus Substituted Service Proof of Service” and “By extracting Nineteen
Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($19,200.00) from the Cross Complainants based
upon a false promise to rescind the Notice to Vacate and then locking out the
Cross Complainants and their two (2) small toddlers by surprise, WITHOUT THEIR
PERSONAL BELONGINGS, for one (1) month.” 
(¶ 27.)
These allegations constitute an improper
method of carrying out the process to its authorized conclusion.  Evicting a tenant and collecting damages are
proper purposes of an unlawful detainer action. 

6. Violation of COVID 19 Tenant Protection Act
            The
FACC does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  It alleges, “As alleged with specificity in
this Verified Cross Complaint, the Cross Defendant violated almost every single
section of the COVID 19 Tenant Protection Act to the damage of the Cross
Complainants thus entitling the Cross Complainants to statutory damages and penalties.”  (¶ 58.) 
The numerous factual allegations preceding this paragraph do not suffice
to apprise Rastegar of what conduct allegedly violated this law, specifically.  Alleging this legal conclusion is not enough. 
7. Intentional and Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress
            The
FACC alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  The elements of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050.)  “A claim
of negligent infliction of emotional distress is not an independent
tort but the tort of negligence to which the traditional elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.” 
(Wong v. Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1377.)   
The demurrer argues that the FACC’s conclusory
allegations contained in paragraph 61 is insufficient.  The
court must read the complaint “as
a whole and all its parts in their context” (Moore v. Regents of University
of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125) and must liberally construe
it in favor of the plaintiff (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238).  
When applying this standard, the FACC
sufficiently alleges each element.  It
alleges Rastegar engaged in a scheme to fraudulently evict cross-complainants,
including “[b]y obtaining possession of the premises by stealth Default
Judgment with a bogus Substituted Service Proof of Service” (¶ 27.A.)  It alleges Rastegar told Blankenship, “ ‘I
will burn all of your personal belongings and torch the unit before you ever
set foot in it’ ” (¶ 27.E.2) and “ ‘I will burn your children’s clothes they
will never have them again.’ ”  (¶
27.E.5.)  It further alleges Rastegar “prematurely
enforced the Lock Out of Defendants and their toddlers on March 15, 2023 AFTER
DARK.”  (¶ 28.)  Finally, it alleges cross-complainants have
“suffer[ed] harm and extreme emotional distress.”  (¶ 38.) 
8. Rescission based upon fraud
            The
FACC does not allege sufficient facts for rescission based upon fraud.  “A party to a contract may rescind the
contract … [i]f the consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly
contracting with him, was given by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace,
fraud, or undue influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as
to whom he rescinds.”  (Civ. Code, §
1689(b)(1).)  This cause of action relies
on the FACC’s underlying claim for fraud. 
As discussed above, the FACC does not allege sufficient facts for fraud.
9. Imposition of a constructive trust against
property acquired by fraud
            The
FACC alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “The essence of the theory of constructive
trust is to prevent unjust enrichment and prevent a person from taking
advantage of his or her own wrongdoing.”  (American Master Lease LLC v. Idanta
Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1484.)  “Imposition of a constructive trust is an
equitable remedy to compel the transfer of the property by one who is not
justly entitled to it to one who is.”  (Id.
at p. 1485.)  The same allegations that
support conversion suffice for a constructive trust over that personal property.  
10. Abuse of process against senior citizen
            The
FACC does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  It alleges, “For the purposes of harassment
and emotional terrorism, the Cross Complainant attempted to serve upon Virginia
Greco Blankenship, aged Ninety (90) Years, who is also the mother of Plaintiff
Mark Blankenship, a Subpoena Duces Tecum for her financial records at her place
of residence and then caused to be filed a FRAUDULENT PROOF OF SERVICE under
penalty of perjury claiming that Virginia Greco Blankenship was personally
served at her residence during a period in which Virginia Greco Blankenship was
residing pursuant to physician’s directives approximately four (4) miles away
from her home a full time residential nursing facility.”  (¶ 67.) 

            These
allegations are insufficient because cross-complainants were not the target of
the alleged abuse of process.  Virginia
Greco Blankenship is not a party to this action.  
Disposition
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Mikel Rastegar’s demurrer to the first amended cross-complaint’s first, second,
third, fifth, sixth, eighth, and tenth causes of action is sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The
demurrer to the fourth, seventh, and ninth causes of action is overruled.