 Case Number:  23STCV01331    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



HEESHIK GANOCY, D.D.S., individually and as
  successor-in-interest to TERRY KENT GANOCY, M.D., deceased, ALEXA GISELLA
  GANOCY, SOPHIA ISABELLA GANOCY, and ARIANA SOLEIL GANOCY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN, INC., THE PERMANENTE FEDERATION
  LLC; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP, and DOES 1 through 100,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV01331
 Hearing Date:   3/22/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Kaiser
  Foundation Health Plan, Inc., The Permanente Federation LLC, and Southern
  California Permanente Medical Group’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint.



 
Court Order
 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Heeshik Ganocy
D.D.S.—individually and as successor-in-interest to Terry Kent Ganocy, M.D.,
deceased (Dr. Ganocy)—Alexa Gisela Ganocy, Sophia Isabella Ganocy, and Ariana
Soleil Ganocy sue Defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (Kaiser Plan),
The Permanente Federation LLC (Permanente Federation), Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (Permanente Group), and Does 1 through 100 pursuant to
a September 5, 2023, First Amended Complaint.
The FAC alleges claims of: (1)
Wrongful Death and Survival against Kaiser Plan, Permanente Federation, and
Does 1 to 100; (2) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA against Permanente Group
and Does 1 to 100; (3) Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation in Violation
of FEHA against Permanente Group and Does 1 to 100; (4) Failure to Engage in
the Interactive Process against Permanente Group and Does 1 to 100; and (5)
Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5, et seq. [Whistleblower Retaliation] against
Permanente Group and Does 1 to 100.
B. Motion Before the Court
On November 13, 2023, Kaiser Plan
and Permanente Federation filed a demurrer to the FAC’s first cause of action,
i.e., the sole claim directed against them.
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition to the demurrer.
On March 15, 2024, Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Federation filed a reply to the opposition.
The Kaiser Plan and the Permanente
Federation’s demurrer is now before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer
A. Opposition Request for
Judicial Notice
Per the request in Plaintiffs’
opposition, the Court takes judicial notice of Health & Safety Code section
1371.25. (Opp’n, p. 3; Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (a), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
B. Legal Standard
1. Sufficiency
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently
allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that
is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded.
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)
35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey
Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded
by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
C. Analysis
1. Demurrer,
Complaint, First Cause of Action, Wrongful Death and Survival: SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend.
a. Local
Standard
The elements of a cause of action
for wrongful death are a tort, such as negligence, and resulting death.” (Lopez
v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) “The elements of a
cause of action for negligence are well established. They are ‘(a) a legal duty
to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.’” (Ladd v. County of San
Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
b. Allegations
The FAC’s first cause of action
alleges wrongful death and survival against the Kaiser Plan, the Permanente
Federation, and Does 1-100 based on the following allegations. Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Federation are vicariously liable for any and all actions of the
Kaiser Group, including the actions of Harsimran Brara (the Group’s then-Chief
of Neurosurgery), Shayan Rahman (the Group’s then-Assistant Chief of
Neurosurgery), and Ramin Davidoff (the Group’s Executive Area Medical Director).
(FAC, ¶ 69.) Kaiser Plan and Permanente Federation are also directly liable for
failure to remedy certain conditions in Dr. Ganocy’s employment. (FAC, ¶¶
70-82.)
c. Analysis
In their demurrer, Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Federation argue that the FAC’s first cause of action fails as to
these Defendants because it fails to sufficiently allege vicarious liability
and direct liability against them. (Demurrer, pp. 4-5, 5-11.)
i. Vicarious Liability 
I. Parties’
Arguments
In their demurrer, Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Federation argue that that this Court has already sustained a
demurrer to the prior Complaint’s vicarious liability allegations on various
grounds and that the FAC failed to amend the pleadings to cure the defects discussed
by the Court in its ruling. (Demurrer, pp. 4-5, citing 8/21/23 Order, pp. 11-13.)
To highlight their point, Kaiser Plan and Permanente Federation provide a copy
of the FAC that uses “redline” notations to show the allegations that were
added to or removed from the pleadings as compared to the original Complaint in
this action. (Demurrer, Fursevich Decl., Ex. A.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs, for the
first time, present arguments relating to vicarious liability (Opp’n, pp. 2-7),
arguments that were missing from Plaintiffs’ opposition to Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Federation’s demurrer to the original Complaint (see 6/20/23
Opposition, pp. 3-5), and which were only raised in limited fashion at the
August 21, 2023, hearing, at which the Court ruled on Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Federation’s prior demurrer (8/21/23 Minutes, p. 12 [“While
Plaintiffs’ counsel argued at oral argument that the Knox-Keene Act should be
limited to medical malpractice, there is no case that so provides”]). The
opposition to the demurrer to the FAC emphasizes that this Court can take a
different position from its prior interim August 21, 2023, court order, and
that the FAC does not plead that Kaiser Plan or Permanente Federation are
health care plans that qualify for protection under the Knox-Keene Act. (Opp’n,
pp. 3-6.)
In reply, Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Federation argue that Plaintiffs are essentially asking for
reconsideration of the August 21, 2023, order beyond the statutory time limit.
Kaiser Plan and Permanente Federation otherwise respond to Plaintiffs’
opposition arguments. (Reply, pp. 2-9.)
II. Court’s
Determination
After review, the Court finds in
favor of Kaiser Plan and Permanente Federation.
First, Plaintiffs are correct in
arguing that the Court may take a position on this order inconsistent with the
August 21, 2023, order. (See Vertex Inv. Co. v. Schwabacher (1943) 57
Cal.App.2d 406, 410 [A trial court’s first determination of a preliminary or
interlocutory matter, e.g., an intermediate ruling on pleadings, is not res
judicata; the judge who made the ruling may reverse himself or herself].)
Second, as argued by the reply, the
FAC alleges grounds to determine that (1) the Knox Keene Act applies to Kaiser
Plan as a “health care services plan” that pays or reimburses the costs of
healthcare services provided by the Kaiser Group, (2) the liability limitation
in the Act would apply to Kaiser Plan as a healthcare services plan, and (3) Permanente
Group as an entity contracting with a healthcare plan, i.e., Kaiser Group or
Kaiser Plan, would qualify for the liability limitation in the Act. (Reply, pp.
4-5, citing FAC, ¶¶ 28 [Plan], 29 [Federation], 42 [Plan], Health & Saf.
Code, § 1345, subds. (f)(1)-(2) [defining health care services plan], and
Health & Saf. Code, § 1371.25 [liability limitation provision of Act
applicable to “any entity contracting with a plan,” among others].)
Third, based on the limitation
discussed above, Kaiser Plan and Permanente Federation cannot be held liable
for Kaiser Group’s acts or omissions, undercutting vicarious liability.
Fourth, the Court rejects the
opposition argument that section 1371.25 does not apply because the type of
claims at issue here—harassment, hostile work environment—do not involve the
issue related to the intent and purposes of the Knox Keene Act, as summarized
in Health and Safety Code section 1342, subdivisions (a)-(h). While section
1342 expresses the intent and purposes of the Knox Keene Act, it does not
modify the liability limitation in the Act, which is not qualified to specific
types of claims. (Health & Saf. Code, §§ 1342, subds. (a)-(h), 1371.25 [“A
plan, any entity contracting with a plan, and providers are each responsible
for their own acts or omissions, and are not liable for the acts or omissions
of, or the costs of defending, others. Any provision to the contrary in a
contract with providers is void and unenforceable. Nothing in this section
shall preclude a finding of liability on the part of a plan, any entity
contracting with a plan, or a provider, based on the doctrines of equitable
indemnity, comparative negligence, contribution, or other statutory or common
law bases for liability.”].) When the language of a statute is clear and
unambiguous, the Court does not need to resort to other inpretative aids, such
as legislative purpose. (Weiss v. City of Del-Mar (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th
609, 618.) There is no case law supporting Plaintiffs’ interpretation. Thus the
Court finds the language of the section 1371.25 unambiguous.
Fifth, the Court determines that
the agency allegations in the FAC are defective. As explained by the Court on
August 21, 2023, a plan cannot be held vicariously liable for the
wrongdoing of an entity with which it contracted based on agency principles. (Watanabe
v. California Physicians’ Service (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 56, 68 (Watanabe)
[“We have not been given a reason, and cannot conceive of one, that would
empower us to override the explicit dictate of section 1371.25 and replace it
with agency principles or even a broader concept of ‘nondelegable duty’ that
would impose vicarious liability on Blue Shield”]; see Futterman v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (Apr. 25, 2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 656, 667, 669 (Futterman)
[finding trial court erred in granting summary judgment because, in relevant
part, triable issues remained as to direct liability rather than vicarious
liability, where only the latter is barred by the liability limitation in Knox
Keene Act, as discussed in Watanabe, supra, at pp. 62, 68, and Martin
v. PacifiCare of California (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398, 1408]; cf. Gopal
v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 425, 432 [finding
joint enterprise doctrine inappropriate in part because the “close
relationship” between the Plan and its providers is authorized by Knox Keene
Act and is necessary for the Plan to meet its obligations of a health plan to
oversee and manage its providers per the statutory requirements of Knox Keene
Act].)
As a result, the Court again finds
that the first cause of action is not sufficiently alleged as to vicarious
liability.
ii. Direct
Liability 
Kaiser Plan and Permanente
Federation that the first cause of action fails to allege direct liability for
wrongful death and survival against them because the claim fails to
sufficiently allege a duty, breach of that duty, and causation. (Demurrer, pp.
5-11.)
I. Duty
A. Parties’
Arguments
 In their demurrer, Kaiser Plan and the
Permanente Federation argue that the FAC fails to plead a duty to Plaintiffs
for various reasons. These include that: (1) the FAC’s attempts to cure the
deficiencies in the Complaint through conclusory allegations that the
Permanente Federation controlled the conditions at Kaiser Group; (2) the
conditions that the Permanente Federation allegedly controlled in Kaiser Group
according to the FAC related to equity, inclusion, and diversity, with “nothing
in the FAC so much as suggest[ing] that those ‘committees’ had the
responsibility to ensure that [Kaiser Group] partners are free from the
wrongful conduct alleged here,” i.e., “consisting primarily of alleged improper
access to patient charts to fabricate Quality Management allegations, [FAC,] at
12, ¶ 41; overscheduling physicians, id.; removing physician privileges,
titles, and benefits, id.; moving targeted doctors and staff from one
office to another, id.; and making threats of investigations, terminations, and
other adverse actions, id.—was supposedly committed by SCPMG partners
over whom the Federation is not alleged to have any control, either through the
‘committees’ or otherwise”; and (3) the FAC alleges that the Permanente
Federation is controlled by Kaiser Plan and Kaiser Group. (Demurrer, pp. 8-10.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that the amendments to the FAC had brought the duty allegations to sufficiency,
specifically citing the FAC’s allegations regarding agency and by citing the
28th and 29th paragraphs in the FAC. (Opp’n, pp. 9-10.)
In reply, Kaiser Plan and
Permanente Group argue that the Court has already considered paragraphs 28 and
29 of the FAC in its August 21, 2023, order because those same allegations were
identically alleged in Plaintiffs’ original Complaint and found insufficient by
the Court’s August 21st order. (Reply, p. 9.)
B. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Kaiser
Plan and Permanente Group.
First, the Court has already
rejected agency as a ground for liability as between Defendants based on the
liability limitation in the Knox Keene Act. (See Section II.C.1.c.i.II.)
discussion supra.)
Second, the Court determines that
the FAC fails to allege grounds for a duty from Kaiser Plan or Permanente Group
to Plaintiffs.
“Where the defendant has neither
performed an act that increases the risk of injury to the plaintiff nor sits in
a relation to the parties that creates an affirmative duty to protect the
plaintiff from harm, … cases have uniformly held the defendant owes no legal
duty to the plaintiff.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal. 5th 204,
213.)
A comparison of the original
Complaint and operative FAC shows that the 28th and 29th paragraphs in these
pleadings are identical. (Compare Complaint, ¶¶ 28-29, with FAC, ¶¶ 28-29.) As
before, the opposition fails to cite authority supporting a conclusion that
these relationships between the parties imposed some kind of duty on Kaiser
Plan and Permanente Group in relation to Dr. Ganocy. (8/21/23 Minutes, p. 13;
Opp’n, pp. 9-10.)
The closest relevant authority
cited by Plaintiffs is Lugtu v. Cal. Highway Patrol (2010) 26 Cal.4th
703 (Lugtu), cited for the proposition that a defendant is liable to a
plaintiff for exposing the plaintiff to the foreseeable conduct (including
reasonably foreseeable negligent conduct) of a third party. (Opp’n, p. 9.)
However, it is unclear how, as
alleged in the FAC, Defendants Kaiser Plan and Permanente Group exposed
Plaintiff to reasonably foreseeable negligent conduct by Kaiser Group. As noted
by the reply, the FAC does not appear to add any allegations to the FAC in
relation to Kaiser Plan (Demurrer, p. 5, § B.1., citing Demurrer, Fursevich
Decl., Ex. A), allegations which the Court found insufficient in its August 21,
2023, order. (8/21/23 Minutes, pp. 13-14.) As to Permanente Group, the FAC
alleges that Kaiser Plan and Kaiser Group control Permanente Group, foreclosing
a conclusion that Permanente Group, as controlled by Kaiser Group or Kaiser
Plan, exposed Plaintiffs to Kaiser Group’s negligent conduct for pleading
purposes. (FAC, ¶ 29 [“FEDERATION exists solely to service GROUP and PLAN,
takes direction from GROUP and PLAN, and is controlled by GROUP and PLAN”].) Any
contradictory allegations in the FAC in Plaintiffs’ favor as to Permanente
Federation do not assist Plaintiffs because they render the FAC uncertain. In other
words, any allegations in the FAC to the effect that Permanente Federation
controlled work conditions at Kaiser Group—Plaintiffs’ alleged employer during
his life (FAC, ¶¶ 21, 23)—are contradicted by prior allegations that Kaiser
Group and Kaiser Plan instead control Permanente Federation. (FAC, ¶ 29.)
As a result, the FAC fails to
allege direct liability against Kaiser Plan and Permanente Group for failure to
plead an adequate basis for duty.
II. Breach and
Causation
Because the Court has determined no
duty has been properly alleged against Kaiser Plan and Permanente Group in the
FAC, the Court need not reach the breach and causation arguments in the
parties’ papers.
iii. Final
Determination
Given that both grounds for
liability against Kaiser Plan and Permanente Group in relation to the FAC’s
first cause of action fail, Kaiser Plan and Permanente Group’s demurrer is
SUSTAINED.
However, the Court permits leave to
amend to give Plaintiff another opportunity to plead around the above defects,
which is particularly proper where the Code permits up to three amendments to a
pleading following a sustained demurrer or other challenge to those pleadings.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (e)(1) [“In response to a demurrer and prior
to the case being at issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended
more than three times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional
facts to be pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be
cured to state a cause of action”].) 
III. Conclusion
Defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., The Permanente Federation
LLC, and Southern California Permanente Medical Group’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
Plaintiffs Heeshik Ganocy
D.D.S.—individually and as successor-in-interest to Terry Kent Ganocy, M.D.,
deceased (Dr. Ganocy)—Alexa Gisela Ganocy, Sophia Isabella Ganocy, and Ariana
Soleil Ganocy may file an amended pleading relating solely to the first cause
of action and background allegations no later than 10 days after this ruling.