  Case Number:  20STCV40296    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



STEVEN KATLEMAN, an individual: JANET KATLEMAN, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
DEWITT STERN OF CALIFORNIA INSURANCE SERVICES, a California
  entity; DEWITT STERN GROUP, a corporation; RISK STRATEGIES COMPANY, a
  corporation; JANICE RUIZ, an individual; SARA NEIDLINGER, an individual;
  E&S INSPECTION INC., a California corporation; AMWINS ACCESS INSURANCE
  SERVICES, LLC, a limited liability company; AMWINS INSURANCE BROKERAGE OF
  CALIFORNIA, LLC, a California limited liability company; ENGLE, MARTIN &
  ASSOCIATES, INC, a corporation; and DOES 1-50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV40296
 Hearing Date:   3/22/24
 Trial Date:        4/30/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants DeWitt
  Stern of California Insurance Services, DeWitt Stern Group, RSC Insurance
  Brokerage, Inc., Janice Ruiz, and Sara Neidlinger’s Motion for Summary
  Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Steven Katleman and
Janet Katleman (the Katleman Plaintiffs) sue Defendants DeWitt Stern of
California Insurance Services (DeWitt Stern Ins.), RSC Insurance Brokerage, Inc. (RSC) (operates as DeWitt Stern Ins.; sued
as Risk Strategies Company), DeWitt Stern Group (company that merged
with RSC in or around 2014), Janice Ruiz, Sara Neidlinger, E&S Inspection,
Inc. (E&S Inspection; dismissed Oct. 26, 2021), AmWINS Access Insurance
Services, LLC (AmWINS Access), AmWINS Insurance Brokerage of California, LLC
(AmWINS Ins.), Eagle, Martin & Associates, Inc. (Eagle Martin), and Does
1-50 pursuant to an October 12, 2021 Third Amended Complaint (TAC) alleging
claims of:
(1) Negligence against Defendants DeWitt
Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern Group, AmWINS Access, AmWINS Ins., Janice Ruiz,
Sara Neidlinger, and Does 1-25;
(2) Intentional/Negligent
Misrepresentation against DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern Group, Janice
Ruiz, Sara Neidlinger, and Does 1-25;
(3) Intentional/Negligent
Misrepresentation against Defendants AmWINS Access, AmWINS Ins., and Does 1-25;
(4) Breach of Contract against
Defendants DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern Group, and Does 1-25;
(5) Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing against DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern
Group, and Does 1-25;
(6) Breach of Contract against
Defendants AmWINS Access, AmWINS Ins., and Does 1-25; and
(7) Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing against Defendants AmWINS Access, AmWINS Ins.,
and Does 1-25.
The claims arise from allegations
that, among other things, the Katleman Plaintiffs were the owners of property
located at 1945 Overhill Road, Agoura, California 91301 (Subject Property),
which was (1) insured in 2012 by the DeWitt Defendants, Risk Strategies Co.,
AmWINS Access, AmWINS Ins., and Does 1-25 (Insurer Defendants) through
Lexington Insurance Company and then, in 2018, through certain underwriters in
Lloyd’s, London, (2) undervalued based on an October 1, 2018 appraisal by
E&S Inspections, Inc., and (3) destroyed in the Woolsey fire on November 8,
2018, resulting in a loss of use, where, due to the undervaluation of the
Subject Property, the insurance policy was inadequate and the Property and the
Katleman Plaintiffs were underinsured (including as to replacement value).
B. Reassignment
This action was originally assigned
to Department 50 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse, the Honorable Teresa A.
Beaudet presiding, and was reassigned to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse (the Court) on November 1, 2022.
C. Motion Before the Court
On October 24, 2023, Defendants
DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, Dewitt Stern Group, Janice Ruiz, and Sara Neidlinger
(hereafter, the Broker Defendants) filed a motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication of the TAC’s first, second, fourth, and
fifth causes of action. Only the first and second causes of action are alleged
against Janice Ruiz and Sara Neidlinger, while the first, second, fourth, and
fifth causes of action are alleged against DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, and Dewitt
Stern Group.
On March 8, 2024, the Katleman
Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the Broker Defendants’ motion.
On March 15, 2024, the Broker Defendants
filed a reply to the Katleman Plaintiffs’ opposition.
The Broker Defendants’ motion is
now before the Court.
 
II. Evidentiary Objections
In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need only rule on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall
be preserved for appellate review. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
Evidentiary objections not made either in writing or orally shall be deemed
waived. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b).)
A. Opposition Objections to Motion’s
Janice Ruiz Declaration
Objection No. 1: NOT RULED ON as
not material to disposition of motion.
 
III. Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication
A. Number of Operative
Defendants at Issue in Motion
Briefing by the Broker Defendants maintains
that DeWitt Stern Ins. is a dba used by RSC and that DeWitt Stern Group is a
company that merged into RSC in or around 2014:
“This action filed by Plaintiffs
Steven Katleman and Janet Katleman (hereinafter ‘Plaintiffs’) centers around
the renewal of a homeowner’s insurance policy (the ‘Policy’), procured by their
insurance broker – defendant RSC Insurance Brokerage, Inc. doing business as
DeWitt Stern of California Insurance Services (hereinafter ‘RSC/ DeWitt’) –
and its brokers [defendants Janice Ruiz (“Ruiz”) and Sara Neidlinger (‘Neidlinger’)]
for Plaintiffs’ small 1,740 sq. ft. single family residence, located at 1945
Overhill Road, Agoura, California 91301 (the ‘Property’). Yet, for inexplicable
reasons, Plaintiffs have also sued DeWitt Stern Group (‘DSG’), a privately held
insurance brokerage and risk advisory firm based in New York company that has
since merged (in or around 2014) with Risk Strategies Company, a national
specialty insurance brokerage and risk management and consulting firm.”
(Mot., p. 7; see Mot., Separate
Statement (Sep. St.), Undisputed Material Fact (UMF) Nos. 1, 4, citing Mot.,
Ruiz Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6.)
The Katleman Plaintiffs do not
dispute this position in their opposition. 
1. DeWitt Stern
Ins. and RSC
The Court’s review of the
California Secretary of State records for “DeWitt Stern of California Insurance
Services” yields no results. (Business Search [DeWitt Stern of California
Insurance Services] (2024) California Secretary of State <https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business>
[as of Mar. 22, 2024].)
Similarly, the Court’s review of
the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk for “DeWitt Stern of
California Insurance Services” yields no results. (Fictitious Business Name
Search [DeWitt Stern of California Insurance Services] (2024) Los Angeles
County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
<https://apps.lavote.gov/#/onlinesearch> [as of Mar. 22, 2024].)
The Declaration of Janice Ruiz,
Vice-President of RSC, filed with the Broker Defendants’ motion, supports the
dba position by explaining that “Defendant RSC Insurance Brokerage, Inc. doing
business as DeWitt Stern of California Insurance Services (‘RSC/ DeWitt’) was
the insurance broker for Plaintiffs during all relevant times when RSC/ DeWitt
obtained the Policy for the Plaintiffs in 2018.” (Mot., Ruiz Decl., ¶ 4.)
The Court thus accepts for the
purposes of this motion that in suing DeWitt Stern Ins., the Katleman
Plaintiffs sue RSC. 
For the remainder of this order,
except where otherwise noted, the Court refers to DeWitt Stern Ins. and RSC as
RSC/DeWitt, and all orders as to one of these Defendants are applicable to the
other.
2. DeWitt Stern
Group and RSC
The Court’s review of the
California Secretary of State records for “DeWitt Stern Group” yields results
showing that this entity was terminated on December 6, 2016. (Business Search
[DeWitt Stern Group] (2024) California Secretary of State <https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business>
[as of Mar. 22, 2024].)
The Court’s review of the Los
Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk for “DeWitt Stern Group” yields
no results. (Fictitious Business Name Search [DeWitt Stern Group] (2024)
Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
<https://apps.lavote.gov/#/onlinesearch> [as of Mar. 22, 2024].)
The Declaration of Janice Ruiz
supports the merger position by explaining that “DSG was the parent company of [DeWitt
Stern Ins.] up until 2014 before its merger with Risk Strategies Company,” for
which reason “DSG had no direct role in procuring the Policy for the Plaintiffs
in 2018.” (Mot., Ruiz Decl., ¶ 6.)
The Court thus accepts for the
purposes of this motion that in suing DeWitt Stern Group, the Katleman
Plaintiffs sue RSC. 
As a result, a grant of summary
judgment or adjudication in RSC/DeWitt’s favor would result in similar relief
for DeWitt Stern Group.
B. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) A party
may also seek summary adjudication of select causes of action, affirmative
defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which may be made by a
standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary judgment, but
which must completely dispose of the challenged cause of action, affirmative
defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(f)(1)-(2), (t).)
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make prima facie showing no triable material fact
issues. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
This burden on summary judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of
persuasion rather than proof, since he must persuade the court that there is no
material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such
fact to the satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the
trier of fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.)
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal
v. El Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
C. Analysis
1. Summary
Judgment, First to Second and Fourth to Fifth Causes of Action: DENIED.
Because no single issue raised by the
Broker Defendants disposes of all four causes of action, summary judgment is
DENIED.
2. Summary
Adjudication, First Cause of Action, Negligence: DENIED.
a. Local
Standard
“‘The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are … “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”’” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913,
917.)
b. Complaint’s
Allegations
The TAC’s first cause of action is
directed at the DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern Group, AmWINS Access,
AmWINS Ins., Janice Ruiz, Sara Neidlinger, and Does 1-25 and alleges as
follows.
The Katleman Plaintiffs requested
that these Defendants obtain “appropriate and adequate insurance” for the full
value of the Subject Property in the event of loss and/or damage to the
property, and for loss of use of the Property in the event of loss and/or
damage to the Property, and/or represented to the Plaintiffs that the Subject
Property was adequately and properly insured, and/or represented to the
Plaintiffs that they were fully covered in the event of a total loss, only for
these Defendants to negligently, carelessly, and/or recklessly fail to obtain
the promised insurance and misrepresent the nature, extent or scope of coverage
on the Property to Plaintiffs. (TAC, ¶¶ 9, 15-16; see TAC, ¶¶ 13-21.) The claim
also alleges that the Katleman Plaintiffs had informed these Defendants that
the Subject Property was undervalued and underinsured, damaging the Katleman
Plaintiffs when the property was destroyed in the Woolsey fire, with damages
exceeding $75,000, in addition to foreseeable consequential and incidental damages
to be proved at trial. (TAC, ¶¶ 17-19; see TAC, ¶¶ 13-21.)
c. Defendants
RSC/DeWitt, Janice Ruiz, and Sara Neidlinger
The Broker Defendants motion
challenges the Complaint’s first cause of action as to all Broker Defendants (with
DeWitt Stern Group being terminated) for negligence on two grounds: (1) lack of
a general duty from the Broker Defendants to the Katleman Plaintiffs; and (2)
lack of special duties from the Broker Defendants to the Katleman Plaintiffs.
(Mot., pp. 16-18, 18-23.)
The Court’s discussion is thus
limited to the duty element of negligence.
i. Duty
I. Moving
Party’s Burden
A. Moving
Party’s Arguments
In their motion the Broker
Defendants argue as follows. The Broker Defendants owed no duty to the Katleman
Plaintiffs other than to use reasonable care, diligence, and judgment in
procuring the insurance requested by the insured. The Broker Defendants cite
the TAC at paragraphs 14 and 16 for the purpose of showing the allegations
relating to the insurance requested by the Katleman Plaintiffs. Paragraph 15
provides that the Katleman Plaintiffs requested that all Defendants “obtain
appropriate and adequate insurance for the full value of the Property in the
event of loss and/or damage to the Property, and for loss of use of the
Property in the event of loss and/or damage to the Property.” The Broker
Defendants argue that such allegations fail where Mr. “Katleman testified
repeatedly that he relied upon the Broker Defendants as to ‘the amounts and the
scope and nature” of Plaintiffs’ coverage, stating that it was “their job” to
determine replacement cost limits. The Broker Defendants support this argument
by citing Jones v. Grewe (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 950 (Jones) for
the purpose of arguing that an insurance policy “arises out of the insured’s
desire to be protected in a particular manner against a specific kind of
obligation,” not a generalized desire to be protected against any possible
financial loss. The Broker Defendants also cite Ahern v. Dillenback (1991)
1 Cal.App.4th 36 (Ahern) to show circumstances affirming a trial court’s
grant of summary judgment where an insured only requested “the best policy
there is” because though a broker may point out the advantages of additional
coverage and obtain additional facts from the insured for such coverage, there
is no obligation to do so. (Mot., pp. 16-18, citing Mot., Sep. St., UMF No.
16.)
A review of the cited evidence
shows testimony from Mr. Katleman to the effect that he relied on Defendants to
determine what the appropriate cost limits were, e.g. emailed Sara Neidlinger
to state “[a]ll I care about is making sure that we’re covered on the house,”
Sara Neidlinger “didn’t push back” and recommend an umbrella policy, and Mr.
Katleman relied on “DeWitt Stern” to ensure that adequate coverage was in place
for the home. (Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 16, citing Mot., Weber Decl., Ex. A, Mr.
Kattleman Deposition, 29:1-30:5.) 
B. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds that these
arguments and evidence carry the Broker Defendants’ burden.
“It is the insured’s responsibility
to advise the agent of the insurance he wants, including the limits of the
policy to be issued.” (Jones, supra, 189 Cal.App.3d at p. 956.)
If Mr. Katleman has testified only that he asked to be “covered on the house” and
did not otherwise request specific limits for the policy for destruction in the
event of a fire, then Mr. Katleman did not express a desire to be protected in
a particular manner, undercutting the existence of a general duty for greater
coverage than that procured through the work of RSC/DeWitt and its agents.
Moreover, Sara Neidlinger—and RSC/DeWitt through her—did not, on the evidence
presented by the Broker Defendants, have a duty to ferret out what being
“covered” meant to Mr. Katleman. (Ahern, supra, 1 Cal.App.4th at
p. 43.)
The burden thus shifts to the Katleman
Plaintiffs.
II. Opposition
Burden
A. Opposition
Arguments
The Katleman Plaintiffs argue that the
circumstances here differ from Ahern and cases with similar outcomes
because Mr. Katleman did request to be protected in a particular manner against
a specific kind of obligation, i.e., Mr. Katleman requested “replacement cost
and loss of use coverage,” where “replacement costs” is defined by the
California Code of Regulations to mean “the amount it would cost to repair,
construct, rebuild or replace a damaged or destroyed structure.” The Katleman
Plaintiffs compare these circumstances to those in Paper Savers, Inc. v.
Nasca (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 1090 (Nasca), where the court of appeal
held that because the insured there requested insurance for a specific
eventuality—the loss of defined property with a quantifiable value, not
personal injury to third parties for which liability may be open ended—a
negligence action could stand. The Katleman Plaintiffs also cite Desai v.
Farmers Ins. Exchange (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1110 (Desai) for the
purpose of comparing the request or inquiry by Mr. Katleman for replacement
cost coverage to the circumstances in Desai that the Desai court
found triggered a special duty for “100 percent replacement cost coverage.” (Opp’n,
p. 13, citing Opp’n, Katleman Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Nasca, supra, at p.
1098, Cal. Code Regs., tit. 10, § 2695.180, and Desai, supra, at pp.
1119-1121.)
B. Separate
Statement Issue
The Court briefly notes that the
opposition should have cited the separate statement somewhere in its argument
relating to duty at page 13. Indeed, a review of the separate statement shows
that paragraphs 2 to 4 of Mr. Katleman’s declaration are not referenced.
Rather, the separate statement only cites other portions of the Steven Katleman
Declaration. (Opp’n, Sep. St., Additional Material Fact (AMF) Nos. 32, 45-45,
138-139, citing Opp’n, S. Katleman Decl., ¶¶ 5, 9, 12-14.)
The Court may nevertheless consider
Mr. Katleman’s declaration at paragraphs 2 to 4. 
The Golden Rule of summary judgment
is that if the material fact is not set forth in the separate statement, it
does not exist. (United Comm. Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
327, 337 (Garcin), superseded by statute on other grounds; Parsons v.
Estenson Logistics, LLC (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1260, 1265, fn. 5, citing Garcin,
supra, at p. 337.)
However, some appellate courts have
applied a discretionary approach rejecting the Golden Rule under the rationale
that section 437c requires the court to consider “all of the evidence set forth
in the papers,” necessarily including facts stated in declarations, exhibits,
points and authorities, or other papers presented to the court on a summary
judgment motion. (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 308 (San Diego Watercrafts) [requiring trial
court to consider evidence submitted but allowing court in its discretion to
ignore evidence not disclosed in relevant party’s separate statement of
undisputed facts]; Ghazarian v. Magellan Health, Inc. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
171, 183 [“trial court likewise has discretion to consider facts not referenced
in the opposing party’s separate statement”].)
The Court agrees with the approach
in San Diego Watercrafts, particularly where the result in San Diego
Watercrafts depended on submission of evidence with a reply, rather than
the facts here: consideration of a declaration referenced in the separate
statement and attached to the moving papers, but involving four paragraphs that
were not included in the separate statement. (Mot., S. Katleman Decl., ¶¶ 2-4;
cf. San Diego Watercrafts, supra, at pp. 310-311.) Moreover, the
Broker Defendants do not raise objections to this portion of the opposition’s
points and authorities in their reply papers.
C. Court’s
Determination
Next, the Court determines that the
Katleman Plaintiffs carry their burden through arguments relating to the second
of three exceptions to the general rule stated in Jones above.
“The general rule in cases of this
sort is . . . that, as a general proposition, an insurance agent does not have
a duty to volunteer to an insured that the latter should procure additional or
different insurance coverage. This rule is well summarized by […] Nacsa […].
(Nacsa, supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at p. 1095, 59 Cal.Rptr.2d 547.) The rule
changes, however, when—but only when—one of the following three things happens:
(a) the agent misrepresents the nature, extent or scope of the coverage being
offered or provided (as in Free, Desai and Nacsa), (b) there is a
request or inquiry by the insured for a particular type or extent of coverage
(as in Westrick), or (c) the agent assumes an additional duty by either
express agreement or by ‘holding himself out’ as having expertise in a given
field of insurance being sought by the insured (as in Kurtz).” (Fitzpatrick
v. Hayes (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 916, 927 (Fitzpatrick).) The Court
refers to these rule changes as the special duties exceptions.
Mr. Katleman states that “[he and
his wife] requested that [their] broker and risk manager, Dewitt Stern, obtain
a homeowners’ insurance package, including replacement cost and loss of use
coverage, for [the Katleman Plaintiffs’] home.” (Mot., Katleman Decl., ¶ 2.) No
objection appears to this representation in the reply papers. The California
Code of Regulations defines “‘[r]eplacement value’ … [as] hav[ing] the same
meaning as ‘replacement cost,’” which is “the amount it would cost to repair,
construct, rebuild or replace a damaged or destroyed structure.” (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 10, § 2695.180.) There is therefore evidence that the Katleman
Plaintiffs requested coverage for loss of defined property with a quantifiable
value. Such evidence fits into the second of the special duties exceptions to Jones:
duty arising from a request or inquiry by the insured for a particular type or
extent of coverage.
D. Reply
Arguments Are Unavailing
In their motion and in their reply,
the Broker Defendants argue that they do not owe Plaintiff any special duty
based on a request by Mr. Katleman for replacement costs for the home for
various reasons. The motion argues that the TAC only alleges that the Katleman
Plaintiffs requested that RSC/DeWitt “obtain appropriate and adequate insurance
for the full value of the Property in the event of a total loss and/or damage
to the Property,” that such a request is not for a specific dollar amount or a
type of particular coverage, that Mr. Katleman testified to relying on
RSC/DeWitt and its agents to obtain the adequate coverage, and that a specific
request for a type of coverage did not come until three months after the policy
was bound, at which time the insurer, not the Broker Defendants, rejected any
increase, finding that the coverage limits were proper. (Mot., pp. 20-22.) The
reply reiterates the three-months-later argument and adds that nothing in the
opposition demonstrates the triggering of special duties because—without
reference to any specific evidence—the Katleman Plaintiffs simply asked the
Broker Defendants to obtain a policy increasing the Katlemans’ limits on their
home. (Reply, pp. 6-7.)
These arguments do not persuade the
Court’s determination that the Katleman Plaintiffs’ carry their burden. This is
because the evidence cited in the opposition and not addressed in the reply at
pages six to seven—i.e., ¶¶ 2-4 of the Steven Katleman Declaration—provides
evidence raising a triable issue of fact as to whether the Katleman Plaintiffs
requested from the Broker Defendants a specific type of insurance coverage
covering a specific and quantifiable type of loss to their Property before
the policy was bound through RSC/DeWitt, AmWINS Access, Lloyds, and the other
Defendants.
The Broker Defendants’ reply also
argues that Desai is distinguishable for a number of reasons. (Reply,
pp. 3-6.)
However, none of the arguments in
the reply are dispositive arguments of law so much as they are arguments
related to the interpretation of case law to the facts presented by the Broker
Defendants in their papers. A triable issue of material fact can arise from the
latter circumstances, and here, Mr. Katleman’s declaration has provided that
basis.
Summary adjudication is therefore
DENIED as to the TAC’s first cause of action based on a triable issue of
material fact as to special duty against RSC/DeWitt, Janice Ruiz, and Sara
Neidlinger—as well as DeWitt Stern Group, which is essentially RSC/DeWitt for
the purposes of this motion.
Based on this determination, the
court need not discuss the parties’ arguments related to the first and third of
the special duties exceptions to the general rule stated in Jones. (See
Mot., pp. 19-20, 22-23; Opp’n, pp. 14-16 [as related to other exceptions];
Reply, pp. 6-8.)
3. Summary
Adjudication, Second Cause of Action, Intentional/Negligent Misrepresentation:
GRANTED [as to Janice Ruiz]; DENIED [as to RSC/DeWitt, DeWitt Stern Group,
and Sara Neidlinger].
a. Local
Standard
Intentional misrepresentation
involves “(1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.” (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
Negligent misrepresentation
involves (1) an assertion, as a fact, of that which is not true, (2) by one who
has no reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) made with intent to
induce the recipient to alter his position to his injury or his risk, (4) with
justifiable reliance on the representation, and (5) resulting damage. (B.L.M.
v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 823, 834.)
Allegations of fraud “must be pled
with more detail than other causes of action.” (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v.
Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 240.) “Every element
of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged … factually and
specifically[,] and the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings … will
not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect. [Citations.]” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[G]eneral
and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Small v. Fritz Cos., Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184 [citations omitted].) Fittingly, a plaintiff
pleading fraud must plead facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means” the allegedly fraudulent representations were tendered. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
b. Complaint’s
Allegations
The TAC’s second cause of action is
directed at the DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern Group, Janice Ruiz, Sara
Neidlinger, and Does 1-25 and alleges as follows.
Defendants “represented to
Plaintiffs that the Property was adequately and properly insured in the event
of loss and/or damage to the Property, that Plaintiffs had adequate and proper
coverage for loss of use of the Property in the event of loss and/or damage to
the Property based on the appraisal and/or their own personal evaluation of the
property, and that a proper and adequate inspection/appraisal of the Property
had been conducted by E&S INSPECTIONS and/or others, that they had no
control of the selection of the inspector / appraiser or the
inspection/appraisal process, and that the inspection/appraisal conducted by
E&S INSPECTIONS was accurate, adequate and proper. Further, said Defendants
presented plaintiffs with a summary of coverage to sign at the inception of the
policy which did not include co-insurance provisions and also represented that
there was a loss extension on both the dwelling and the other structures.
Plaintiffs are informed and believe and thereupon allege that each of the aforementioned
defendants, by and through their own words or conduct, or through the words and
conduct of their agents, employees, independent contractors, joint-venturers
and/or partners or co-defendants, made these representations to Plaintiffs.”
These representations were made by Janice Ruiz and Sara Neidlinger on behalf of
DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, and DeWitt Stern Group in May, June, October, and
November 2018. (TAC, ¶¶ 23-24.)
c. Defendants
RSC/DeWitt, Janice Ruiz, and Sara Neidlinger
In their motion, the Broker
Defendants argue that no triable issues of material fact exist as to the
misrepresentation claim because, other than implied misrepresentations, which
are not actionable, there is insufficient evidence of any misrepresentation by
any of the Broker Defendants, either before or after the policy was bound. (Mot.,
p. 23, citing TAC, ¶ 23, Mot., Sep. St., UMF Nos. 17, 30, 40, and Wilson v.
Century 21 Great Western Realty (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 298, 306 (Wilson).)
The Broker Defendants also argue
that Plaintiffs have not shown evidence of any misrepresentations by the Broker
Defendants after the policy was bound. (Mot., pp. 23-24, citing Mot., Sep. St.,
UMF Nos. 30, 40.)
The Court’s discussion is thus
limited to the misrepresentation element of an intentional or a negligent
misrepresentation claim.
i. Misrepresentation
I. Moving
Party’s Burden
A. Moving
Party’s Arguments
In their motion, the Broker
Defendants argue that no triable issues of material fact exist as to the
misrepresentation claim—which has intentional tort and negligence
components—because the TAC is conclusory as to what false representation was
made by any of the Broker Defendants to any of the Katleman Plaintiffs, and
because Mr. Katleman has testified that he relied on RSC/DeWitt’s statements
through its agents but also testified to being unable to recall what Janice
Ruiz said to Mr. Katleman relating to whether coverage on the Property was
“sufficient.” The Broker Defendants argue this is insufficient where Wilson
v. Century 21 Great Western Realty (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 298 holds that
implied assertions or representations are insufficient to establish a claim for
misrepresentation. (Mot., p. 23, citing TAC, ¶ 23, Mot., Sep. St., UMF Nos. 17,
and Wilson, supra, 15 Cal.App.4th at p. 306.)
The Broker Defendants also argue
that Plaintiffs have not shown evidence of any misrepresentations by the Broker
Defendants after the policy was bound. (Mot., pp. 23-24, citing Mot., Sep. St.,
UMF Nos. 30, 40.)
UMF No. 17 cites the deposition of
Mr. Katleman for the purpose of showing his testimony to the effect that he
cannot recall what Janice Ruiz responded “on the phone” “a couple of years
before the fire” when Mr. Katleman asked Ruiz whether she was “sure the[]
coverage [was] sufficient for [the Katleman Plaintiffs] to be able to rebuild
[their] home.” (Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 17, citing Mot., Weber Decl., Ex. A,
27:2-21.)
UMF No. 30 cites the Declaration of
Janice Ruiz and an email from Mr. Katleman to the Brokers Defendant for the
purpose of showing that Mr. Katleman had had concerns regarding whether the
coverage (Coverage A) on the home was sufficient and had meant to get around to
mentioning it to RSC/DeWitt when these parties began working together in 2014 but
waited more than four years to do so, i.e., until his October 8, 2018, email,
which the Court notes is after the 2018 policy was bound but before the Woolsey
Fire. (Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 30, citing Mot., Ruiz Decl., ¶ 15 & Ex. 4
[Oct. 8, 2018, 6:54 PM Email].)
UMF No. 40 cites the declaration of
Janice Ruiz for the proposition that RSC/DeWitt and its brokers did not have
the ability to change to policy after it was bound, which was a decision that
only “Lloyds via AmWINS” could take. (Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 40, citing Mot.,
Ruiz Decl., ¶ 24.)
B. Court’s
Determination
A review of the evidence cited in
UMF Nos. 17, 30, and 40 confirms the Broker Defendants’ position and carries
the Broker Defendants’ burden.
If the cited deposition testimony
is the only testimony from Mr. Katleman relating to his conversations with
RSC/DeWitt agents, then the Broker Defendants have, in UMF No. 17, presented
evidence showing that Mr. Katleman does not in fact remember what representation
those agents made in relation to the replacement cost coverage (Coverage A) on
the Property. Without knowledge of a representation, a misrepresentation claim
cannot stand because there can be no determination of falsity when the content
of the representation is not known.
The burden thus shifts to the
Katleman Plaintiffs.
II. Opposition
Burden
A. Opposition
Arguments
In opposition, the Katleman
Plaintiffs cite evidence attached to their papers to show that “DeWitt
misrepresented to the Katlemans that the[] [Katlemans] had enough replacement
cost coverage for their home on at least two occasions in June 2018 and October
2018 ….” (Opp’n, p. 17, citing Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF Nos. 44, 45, 59, 61, 89-92,
102, 123.) They also cite evidence to show that the replacement cost to rebuild
the Katlemans’ home is well in excess of the coverage paid out to the Katlemans.
(Opp’n, p. 16. Citing Opp’n Sep. St., AMF Nos. 138-139.)
The Katleman Plaintiffs also argue
that the moving papers’ references to Mr. Katleman’s reliance on RSC/DeWitt to
obtain the desired coverage—replacement cost coverage in the event of a total
loss—support the reliance element of misrepresentation (Opp’n, p. 17), an
argument that the Court need not consider because the challenging to this claim
is limited to the misrepresentation, not reliance, element.
B. Reply
Arguments
In reply, the Broker Defendants
reiterate their arguments relating to the need for some kind of affirmative
rather than implied misrepresentation for the purposes of this cause of action,
which the opposition fails to provide. (Reply, pp. 8-9.)
C. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds that the Katleman
Plaintiffs carry their burden as to Sara Neidlinger and RSC/DeWitt—and thus, as
to DeWitt Stern Group—but not as to Janice Ruiz.
1. Sara
Neidlinger and RSC/DeWitt
AMF No. 45 cites various pieces of
evidence, including the deposition of Janice Ruiz, to show that “DeWitt”
represented to the Katlemans in June 2018 that the Lloyd’s policy would cover
the cost to rebuild their property in the event of a total loss due to fire.
(Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF No. 45, citing Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., Exs. 1, 119:15-19
[relevant Ruiz deposition testimony], 13 [June 2018 Insurance Summary from
RSC/DeWitt] & Opp’n, Katleman Decl., ¶ 5.)
A review of the Janice Ruiz
deposition at the cited portion shows only that she, by answering, “[y]es,”
testified in the affirmative to the question of whether it “[w]as DeWitt’s
position that th[e] policy covered the entire cost to rebuild the Katlemans’
property in the event of a total loss.” (Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., Exs. 1,
119:15-19.)
The Steven Katleman Declaration
provides that “Dewitt Stern represented to us that the cost needed to rebuild a
structure similar to our home in the event of a total loss was $632,141.” (Opp’n,
Katleman Decl., ¶ 5.) This representation is supported by AMF No. 102.
AMF No. 102 cites the same and
other evidence, including an October 10, 2018, email from Sara Neidlinger to
Mr. Katleman stating that Neidlinger had calculated the replacement cost as
being similar to that in the Lloyd’s policy. (Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF No. 61,
citing Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., Exs. 1, 119:15-19 [relevant Ruiz deposition
testimony], 6, 32:25-35:20; 36:2-15 [relevant Neidlinger deposition testimony],
12 [Lloyd’s policy], 13 [June 2018 Insurance Summary by DeWitt], 16 [Jul. 2018
Email] & Opp’n, Katleman Decl., ¶ 5.)
The October 10, 2018, email in
particular provides a specific representation from an RSC/DeWitt agent—Sara
Neidlinger—to one of the Plaintiffs—Mr. Katleman—regarding whether the
replacement cost coverage secured earlier in 2018 was sufficient to replace the
home in the event of a total loss.
And AMF Nos. 138-139 cites the
Steven Katleman declaration presenting evidence that the Katlemans obtained an
estimate to rebuild the Property in January 2020, which showed that the
replacement cost to rebuild the Katlemans’ home was well in excess of the
coverage paid out to the Katlemans, and that the Katlemans have not been able
to rebuild their home to date because of the significant shortfall in coverage.
(Opp’n, Katleman Dec., ¶¶ 13-14, cited in Sep. St., AMF Nos. 138-139.)
This evidence shows triable issues
of material fact as to, at the very least, the October 10, 2018, email, and
grounds for misrepresentation arising from statements made by Sara Neidlinger
in those emails. This supports liability against Sara Neidlinger and
RSC/DeWitt.
Summary adjudication of the TAC’s
second cause of action as it relates to Sara Neidlinger and RSC/DeWitt—and as
such, DeWitt Stern Group—is thus DENIED.
2. Janice Ruiz
However, summary adjudication of
the same claim as relating to Janice Ruiz is GRANTED.
This is because none of the cited
AMFs—Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF Nos. 44, 45, 59, 61, 89-92, 102, and 123—provide evidence
of a statement by Janice Ruiz to the Katleman Plaintiffs regarding whether the
replacement cost coverage secured in 2018 would permit the rebuilding of the
Property in the event of a total loss. The portion of the Janice Ruiz
deposition cited in AMF Nos. 44-45 and 61 merely states RSC/DeWitt’s position
as to replacement cost coverage at the relevant time, not that Janice Ruiz made
representations as to replacement cost coverage to the Katleman Plaintiffs. The
remaining evidence cited in these AMFs is similarly unavailing as to a misrepresentation
from Janice Ruiz. AMF Nos. 59, 89-92, and 102 cite evidence of representations
by Sara Neidlinger, not Janice Ruiz. AMF No. 123, like the Steven Katleman
Declaration and various others of the above AMFs merely state that RSC/DeWitt
made misrepresentations as to replacement cost coverage to the Katleman
Plaintiffs but do not identify Janice Ruiz as having made that affirmative
misrepresentation or controlling the means of representation, e.g., the report
cited in AMF No. 123. 
Liability for misrepresentation
against Janice Ruiz is thus not proper against Janice Ruiz pursuant to this
evidence.
4. Summary
Adjudication, Fourth Cause of Action, Breach of Contract: DENIED.
a. Local
Standard
“A contract is a voluntary and
lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good consideration, to do or not
to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee (1858) 9 Cal. 81, 83.) “To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove
(1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) Implicit in the element of damage is that the defendant’s
breach caused the plaintiff’s damage.” (Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352, italics omitted.)
b. Complaint’s
Allegations
The TAC’s fourth cause of action is
directed at the DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern Group, and Does 1-25 and
alleges that Plaintiffs entered a written contract to procure home insurance
for the Katlemans with Defendants, who “breached the contract by failing to
obtain appropriate and adequate insurance for the full value of the Property in
the event of loss and/or damage to the Property, and/or failing to obtain
appropriate and adequate insurance for loss of use of the Property in the event
of loss and/or damage to the Property.” (TAC, ¶ 50.)
c. Defendants
RSC/DeWitt
In their motion, the Broker
Defendants argue that the evidence fails to show any type of contract between RSC/Dewitt—and
by extension, DeWitt Stern Group—and the Katleman Plaintiffs because the
evidence fails to show any consideration for a contract existed between the
parties.
The Court’s discussion is thus
limited to the consideration element of contract formation.
i. Consideration
I. Court’s
Determination
After review, the Court DENIES
summary adjudication of the TAC’s fourth cause of action.
For the purposes of this
discussion, the Court assumes that the Broker Defendants carried their initial
burden as to RSC/DeWitt’s liability on this claim.
Moving to the merits, in their
opposition, the Katleman Plaintiffs argue that consideration is not a
requirement for contract formation under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
(Opp’n, p. 18.) “Under the doctrine of promissory estoppel, the promise by one
party and the resulting detrimental reliance on that promise by another party
operate as a substitute for consideration that may make the modification
enforceable to the extent necessary to prevent injustice.” (Platt Pacific,
Inc. v. Andelson (1993) 6 Cal.4th 307, 321, citing Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist., supra, 70 Cal.2d at pp. 249-250.) The reply fails
to address promissory estoppel, instead shifting the Broker Defendants’
arguments to topics that do not relate to consideration directly. (Reply, pp.
9-10.) As such, the promissory estoppel argument is unopposed. And the Court
notes that the Broker Defendants’ moving papers themselves refer to the
Katleman Plaintiffs’ reliance on the Broker Defendants’ work in securing
appropriate replacement cost coverage. (Mot., p. 11, citing Mot., Sep. St., UMF
No. 16 [Steven Kattleman deposition]; see Section III.C.2.c.i.I.A. discussion
supra [discussing reliance raised in moving papers].) Whether that reliance was
justified based on Steven Katleman’s preexisting concerns with the policy is
not an issue addressed in the breach of contract portion of the reply and is
thus not addressed.
5. Summary
Adjudication, Fifth Cause of Action, Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing: DENIED.
a. Local
Standard
To prevail on a cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff
must prove: (1) the existence of a contract between plaintiff and defendant;
(2) plaintiff performed his contractual obligations or was excused from
performing them; (3) the conditions requiring defendant’s performance had
occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered with the plaintiff’s right to
receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the plaintiff was harmed by the
defendant’s conduct. (Merced Irr. Dist. v. County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal.
2013) 941 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280 [discussing California law].) Allegations must
demonstrate defendant’s conduct for failure or refusal to discharge contractual
responsibilities was a conscious and deliberate act, not an honest mistake, bad
judgment or negligence. (Ibid.) “‘[T]he
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is limited to assuring
compliance with the express terms of the contract and cannot be extended to
create obligations not contemplated by the contract.’” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 206 [quoting Pasadena Live v.
City of Pasadena (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1089, 1094].)
b. Complaint’s
Allegations
The TAC’s fifth cause of action is
directed at the DeWitt Stern Ins., RSC, DeWitt Stern Group, and Does 1-25 and
alleges that they breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
in the parties’ written contract through “the aforementioned conduct,” i.e., failing
to obtain appropriate and adequate insurance for the full value of the Property
in the event of loss and/or damage to the Property, and/or failing to obtain
appropriate and adequate insurance for loss of use of the Property in the event
of loss and/or damage to the Property. (TAC, ¶¶ 54-63.)
c. Defendants
RSC/DeWitt
In their motion, the Broker
Defendants challenge the fifth cause of action on two grounds: lack of a
contract between RSC/DeWitt and the Katleman Plaintiffs; and lack of additional
circumstances meriting relief beyond breach of contract.
The Court’s discussion is thus
limited to these two grounds.
i. Lack of a Contract
I. Court’s
Determination
Based on the Court’s discussion at
Section III.C.4.c.i.I., the Court finds that the Broker Defendants’ first
argument—lack of contract between the parties—is unavailing.
ii. Lack of
Circumstances for Relief Beyond Breach of Contract
I. Court’s
Determination
The Court also finds that the ‘lack
of circumstances for relief beyond breach of contract’ argument is unavailing.
In their motion, the Broker
Defendants argue that this claim is fatally defective as stated against
RSC/DeWitt—and thus DeWitt Stern Group—because a breach of the implied covenant
claim can only be brought against an insurance carrier, not an insurance broker
like RSC/DeWitt, citing Cates Construction, Inc. v. Talbot Partners
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 28 (Cates) in support. (Mot., p. 26, citing Cates,
supra, at pp. 43-44.)
However, the rule in Cates
is not that insurance brokers cannot be held liable for a breach of covenant
claim. Cates states in relevant part:
“Because the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing essentially is a contract term that aims to effectuate the
contractual intentions of the parties, ‘compensation for its breach has almost
always been limited to contract rather than tort remedies.’ (Foley, supra,
47 Cal.3d at p. 684; see Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co.
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 94 [44 Cal.Rptr.2d 420, 900 P.2d 669]; Hunter v.
Up-Right, Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 1174, 1180 [26 Cal.Rptr.2d 8, 864 P.2d 88]
(Hunter).) At present, this court recognizes only one exception to that
general rule: tort remedies are available for a breach of the covenant in cases
involving insurance policies. (Hunter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at pp.
1180-1181; Foley, supra, 47 Cal.3d at p. 684.) In the insurance
policy setting, an insured may recover damages not otherwise available in a
contract action, such as emotional distress damages resulting from the insurer’s
bad faith conduct (see Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566,
580 [108 Cal.Rptr. 480, 510 P.2d 1032]) and punitive damages if there has been
oppression, fraud, or malice by the insurer (see Civ. Code, § 3294).” (Cates,
supra, 21 Cal.4th at pp. 43-44.)
Based on Coats, the Court
determines that it follows that if an insurance broker exhibits bad faith in
approaching its contract with a client, then a claim may stand for breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
And here, the Court adopts its
discussion at Section III.C.3.c.i.II.1. to determine that the triable issues of
material fact as to misrepresentation against RSC/DeWitt show triable issues of
material fact as to bad faith by RSC/DeWitt in relation to the contract
discussed in Section III.C.4.c.i.I above.
Because the Broker Defendants’
arguments in relation to this claim have both failed, the Court DENIES summary
adjudication of the fifth cause of action.
 
IV. Conclusion
Defendants DeWitt Stern of
California Insurance Services, DeWitt Stern Group, RSC Insurance Brokerage,
Inc., Janice Ruiz, and Sara Neidlinger’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as
follows:
(1) DENIED as to summary judgment
of the TAC’s claims against the Broker Defendants;
(2) DENIED as to summary
adjudication of the TAC’s first cause of action as against Defendants DeWitt
Stern of California Insurance Services, RSC Insurance Brokerage, Inc., DeWitt
Stern Group, Janice Ruiz, and Sara Neidlinger.
(3) GRANTED as to summary
adjudication of the TAC’s second cause of action in favor of Defendant Janice
Ruiz;
(4) DENIED as to summary
adjudication of the TAC’s third cause of action as against Defendants DeWitt
Stern of California Insurance Services, RSC Insurance Brokerage, Inc., DeWitt
Stern Group, and Sara Neidlinger;
(5) DENIED as to summary
adjudication of the TAC’s fourth cause of action as against Defendants DeWitt
Stern of California Insurance Services, RSC Insurance Brokerage, Inc., and
DeWitt Stern Group; and
(6) DENIED as to summary
adjudication of the TAC’s fifth cause of action as against Defendants DeWitt
Stern of California Insurance Services, RSC Insurance Brokerage, Inc., and
DeWitt Stern Group.