  Case Number:  22STCV05062    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 4, 2023                  TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Jesus Nunez v. The Micro Connection
Enterprises, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV05062            
 
MOTION
TO TERMINATE ARBITRATION AND ENTER DEFAULT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Jesus Nunez 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants The
Micro Connection Enterprises, Inc.; Personal Care Performance Group, Inc., and Cross-Defendants
Westwood Laboratories, LLC, and Araceli Villalobos.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/09/22: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action under the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, filed
on February 9, 2022, alleging multiple wage and hour violations. Plaintiff asserts
Defendants regularly failed to pay wages owed, failed to provide meal and rest
periods, and failed to provide accurate wage statements, and terminated
Plaintiff in retaliation for complaining about these failures.
 
Plaintiff moves to terminate
arbitration pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97 and enter
default against Defendants. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff
moves to terminate the arbitration ordered by the Court on February 22, 2023 and
enter default against Defendants. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.97 provides:
 
(1) In an employment or consumer
arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of state or
federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, the drafting party to pay
certain fees and costs before the arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs
to initiate an arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due
date the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is
in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under
Section 1281.2.
 
(2) After an employee or consumer meets
the filing requirements necessary to initiate an arbitration, the arbitration
provider shall immediately provide an invoice for any fees and costs required
before the arbitration can proceed to all of the parties to the arbitration.
The invoice shall be provided in its entirety, shall state the full amount owed
and the date that payment is due, and shall be sent to all parties by the same
means on the same day. To avoid delay, absent an express provision in the arbitration
agreement stating the number of days in which the parties to the arbitration
must pay any required fees or costs, the arbitration provider shall issue all
invoices to the parties as due upon receipt.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.97(a).) If the drafting party is in
default under subdivision (a), the employee may withdraw the claim from
arbitration and proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.97(b).) The thirty-day period to respond begins to run upon
receipt of the invoice by the drafting party unless the parties expressly agree
to the contrary. (Espinoza v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 761,
774.) A drafting party must strictly comply with the statute to avoid waiver of
the right to arbitration. (Id. at 775.)  
 
            Plaintiff
contends Defendants violated the requirements of section 1281.97 and breached
the arbitration agreement by failing to select an arbitrator pursuant to its
terms. Defendants state they are amenable to returning this matter to
litigation, and only oppose the motion with respect to Plaintiff’s demand that
the Court enter default against Micro Connection Enterprises and Personal Care
Performance Group. Plaintiff cites no authority authorizing the entry of
default against any party as a remedy or sanction for violation of section
1281.97. The Court therefore declines to impose such a drastic punishment,
especially where, as here, Micro Connection and PCPG aver that they are
prepared to file their answer forthwith. 
 
            Plaintiff
also requests leave of court to seek attorney’s fees and costs by way of a
noticed motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98(c). As such
a motion is expressly authorized by statute, leave of court is not required. If
Plaintiff wishes to pursue attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to that section,
Plaintiff is at liberty to serve and file that motion per code. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Terminate Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request to enter default against Defendants The Micro Connection Enterprises
and Personal Care Performance Group is DENIED. Defendants The micro Connection
Enterprises and Personal Care Performance Group are ordered to file and serve
their answer within 5 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 4, 2023                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 