 Case Number:  22STCV17459    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BAHRAM RASIZADEH, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SCHUSTER REAL ESTATE CO., LTD.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV17459
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO SEAL;
  GRANTING MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT; DENYING REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT
  JUDGMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 2, 2024



 
On December 14, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff Bahram
Rasizadeh’s motion for terminating sanctions and entered default against Defendant
Schuster Land Corp.  The Court found willful
discovery abuse when prior evidentiary and monetary sanctions were ineffective,
and Defendant did not submit any pretrial documents for the Final Status Conference.
On March 12, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to set aside/vacate default with a motion to seal.
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
request for entry of default judgment.
MOTION TO SEAL
The Court may
order that a record be filed under seal only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record, (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exists to achieve the overriding
interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule
2.550(d).)  A motion seeking an order sealing
records must be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify
the sealing.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 2.551(b)(1).)
A record must not be filed under seal
without a court order, and a party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(a)-(b).)  The party requesting sealing must also file a
public redacted version and lodge conditionally under seal with the court a complete,
unredacted version.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(b)(4)-(b)(5).)
Defendant seeks
to seal the substantive portion of Jana I. Lubert’s declaration in support of its
motion to vacate default.  This declaration
details private, statutorily protected employment information and personal information
about former counsel Ariadne Gianni.  Defendant also filed another declaration
that contains the non-private information
to support its motion to vacate default.
The Court finds
that this privacy concern is an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record.  The proposed redaction of only the protected,
private information is narrowly tailored, and there are no less restrictive means.  
The motion to
seal is GRANTED.
MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT

The Court may relieve a party or counsel from a judgment
resulting from mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, not to exceed six months, after the judgment.  (Ibid.)  “Section 473 is often applied liberally where
the party in default moves promptly to seek relief, and the party opposing the motion
will not suffer prejudice if relief is granted. 
[Citations.]  In such situations ‘very
slight evidence will be required to justify a court in setting aside the default.’  [Citation.]” 
(Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233.)
Defendant
timely filed this motion less than six months after entry of default.  Defendant’s current counsel explains that, as
the supervising attorney for this action, she assigned the handling of this file
to partner Ariadne Giannis.  (Steffy Decl.
¶¶ 3-4.)  Current counsel did not oversee
the defense because she understood that Ms. Giannis was an experienced litigator
properly handling this file.  (Steffy Decl.
¶ 5; see Steffy Decl. ¶ 8.)  Current counsel
later learned that Ms. Giannis did not provide adequate discovery responses, did
not oppose Plaintiff’s motions to compel, did not oppose Plaintiff’s motion for
evidentiary sanctions, did not produce the client for deposition, did not appear
at the November 27, 2023 Final Status Conference, and did not file pretrial documents.  (Steffy Decl. ¶ 6.)  After learning about the entry of default, current
counsel made attempts to contact and communicate with Ms. Giannis regarding this
case, but she was unable to do so.  (Steffy
Decl. ¶ 9; see Lubert Decl.)
Defendant
is providing the outstanding discovery and preparing its jury instructions, exhibit
list, and witness list.  (Steffy Decl. ¶¶
11-12, 14.)  Plaintiff has not shown any prejudice
if the default is set aside, “given the relatively short time between [Plaintiff]
seeking the default and [Defendant] asking to be relieved from it.”  (Lasalle
v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th
127, 138-139 (Lasalle).)  “‘When
evaluating a motion to set aside a default judgment on equitable grounds, the “court
must weigh the reasonableness of the conduct of the moving party in light of the
extent of the prejudice to the responding party.”’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 139.)  As in Lasalle, setting aside this default
involves little wasted time.
Accordingly,
the motion to set aside the entry of default is GRANTED.  Defendant’s July 6, 2022 Answer is reinstated.
The
request for entry of default judgment is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 2nd day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 