 Case Number:  22STCV23760    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
July 22, 2022, Plaintiff Michann Denise Meadows (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”), State of
California, John Doe, Jesus Martinez, Jotojot Keene, and Does 1-50 for
negligence and statutory liability and negligence. 
On
March 1, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant State of California without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  On
March 19, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant City of Los Angeles without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. On September 16, 2024, the Court dismissed
Defendant John Doe without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
March 5, 2024, Metro filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Jesus Martinez and Roes 1-10 for implied indemnity,
comparative fault, declaratory relief, and negligence. 
On
September 12, 2024, the Court granted Metro’s unopposed motion to deem admitted
matters specified in requests for admission, set one, served on Plaintiff and
deemed the matters admitted.  The Court also granted Metro’s request for sanctions
and ordered Plaintiff to pay Metro $500.00 by October 11, 2024. 
On
October 3, 2024, the Court granted Metro’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to requests for production and ordered Plaintiff to serve verified
code-compliant responses to the requests for production without objections and
to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other
things requested without objections by November 4, 2024. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
B.   This motion 
On
September 16, 2024, Metro filed a motion for terminating and monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff.   The motion was set for hearing on November 16,
2024, a Saturday.  The Court continued
the hearing to November 25, 2024.  Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Metro
asks the Court to impose terminating and monetary sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering
that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance
with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery
process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an
order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
“(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030.)           
B.   Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with
discovery orders 
A
violation of a discovery order may support the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (See Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (“Mileikowsky”).)  
C.   Sanctions for failure to comply with order compelling
responses to interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides in part: 
“If a party . . . fails to obey an order compelling
answers [to interrogatories], the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
August 12, 2024, the Court granted Metro’s unopposed motion to compel
Plaintiff’s responses to special and form interrogatories and ordered Plaintiff
to provide verified, code-compliant responses to the special and form
interrogatories without objections by September 11, 2024. 
Plaintiff did not comply with the Court’s August 12, 2024 order.  Metro now asks the Court to dismiss
Plaintiff’s action as a sanction for failing to comply with the order. 
The
Court denies Metro’s request for terminating sanctions.  Metro has shown that Plaintiff violated one
discovery order.  Metro has not shown
that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing compliance with
the discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 279-280.) 
Instead,
the Court orders Plaintiff to comply with the Court’s August 12, 2024 order by
December 24, 2024. 
Metro also asks the Court to award $1,700.00 in monetary sanctions based on 6.8 hours of
attorney time at a rate of $250.00 per hour. 
Counsel spent approximately 3.8 hours preparing the motion and
anticipated spending an additional 1.0 hours analyzing the opposition and
drafting a reply brief and 2.0 hours preparing for and attending the hearing on
the motion. 
The
Court grants $750.00 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES in part and GRANTS in part Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion for terminating sanctions and
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Michann Denise Meadows as follows. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s request for terminating sanctions. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority’s request for monetary sanctions and orders
Plaintiff Michann Denise Meadows to pay
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority $750.00 by
December 24, 2024. 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Michann Denise Meadows to serve verified, code-compliant
responses to Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s
special interrogatories and form interrogatories without objections by December
24, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.