 Case Number:  22STCV12946    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  28 I. Motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Prior proceedings  On  April 18, 2022, Plaintiff Ben Karp (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Westlake Plaza Center East-II, LLC (“Westlake”) and Does 1-50 for  general negligence and premises liability.  On  June 8, 2022, Westlake filed an answer.  On  June 17, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant All Points  Lock and Security, Inc. (“All Points”) as Doe 1. On December 29, 2022, All  Points filed an answer.  On  December 6, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Cushman  & Wakefield U.S., Inc. as Doe 2.  On  January 30, 2024, Defendant Cushman & Wakefield of  California, Inc., erroneously sued as Cushman & Wakefield U.S. Inc.  (“Cushman”), filed an answer.  On  March 27, 2024, the Court found that the settlement between Plaintiff and All  Points was made in good faith based on the parties’ stipulation.  On May 31, 2024, the Court dismissed All  Points with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  Trial  is currently set for May 14, 2025.  B.   Motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication  On July  31, 2024, Westlake and Cushman (“Defendants”) filed a motion for summary  judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.  The motion was set for hearing on November  19, 2024.  On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff  filed an opposition.  On November 13,  2024, Defendants filed a reply.  The  Court continued the hearing to November 25, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendants  ask the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  PLAINTIFF’S EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS  The  objections are not properly formatted and the Court has not considered  them.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1354(b); Hodjat v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2012) 211  Cal.App.4th 1, 8-9.)  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos  Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party  moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a  prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;  if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing  party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima  facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by  showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with  evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to  interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may  ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence  that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The  defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the  plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered  nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176  Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must  support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209,  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must  file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of  the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating  whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.  The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material  facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact  contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference  to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.  (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable  separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion  constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending  party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)   In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and  inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing  party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  B.   Premises liability and negligence  “The  elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a  legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in  injury.”  (Kesner v. Superior Court  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)  “ ‘  “Generally, one owes a duty of ordinary care not to cause an unreasonable risk  of harm to others....” ' [Citation.]” (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166  Cal.App.4th 404, 411 (Salinas), quoting Padilla v. Rodas (2008) 160  Cal.App.4th 742, 747 (Padilla).) “ ‘Civil Code section 1714 sets forth  the general duty of a property owner toward others: “Everyone is responsible,  not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury  occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the  management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has,  willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or  herself.” The application of this provision entails an inquiry as to “whether  in the management of his property he has acted as a reasonable [person] in view  of the probability of injury to others....” [Citations.]’ ” (Id. at pp.  411-412, quoting Laico v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th  649, 659 (Laico).) “A landowner ‘ “ ‘has an affirmative duty to exercise  ordinary care to keep the premises in a reasonably safe condition, and  therefore must inspect them or take other proper means to ascertain their  condition. And if, by the exercise of reasonable care, he would have discovered  the dangerous condition, he is liable.’ ” ’ [Citation.]’ ” (Id. at p.  412, quoting Portillo v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134.)  “  ‘An exception to the statutory rule of liability for failure to use ordinary  care in the management of one's property requires clear support in public  policy.’ ” (Salinas, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 412, quoting Laico,  supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at pp. 659–660.) “ ‘ “In the case of a  landowner's liability for injuries to persons on the property, the  determination of whether a duty exists, ‘involves the balancing of a number of  considerations; the major ones are the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff,  the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of  the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the  moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing  future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and the consequences to  the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for  breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk  involved.’ [Citations.]” [Citation.]’ ” (Ibid., quoting Rinehart v.  Boys & Girls Club of Chula Vista (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 419, 430.) “  ‘Foreseeability and the extent of the burden to the defendant are ordinarily  the crucial considerations, but in a given case one or more of the other  Rowland factors may be determinative of the duty analysis.’ ” (Ibid.,  quoting Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.) “The  existence and scope of a defendant's duty is a question of law for the court's  resolution.” (Ibid., citing Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42 Cal.4th 482, 488;  Padilla, supra, 160 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)  C.   Landlord’s duty of care  “[W]here  a landlord has relinquished control of property to a tenant, a ‘bright line’  rule has developed to moderate the landlord's duty of care owed to a third  party injured on the property as compared with the tenant who enjoys possession  and control.” (Salinas, supra, 166  Cal.App.4th at p. 412.)  “ ‘ “Because  a landlord has relinquished possessory interest in the land, his or her duty of  care to third parties injured on the land is attenuated as compared with the  tenant who enjoys possession and control. Thus, before  liability may be thrust on a landlord for a third party's injury due to a  dangerous condition on the land, the plaintiff must show that the landlord had  actual knowledge of the dangerous condition in question, plus the right and  ability to cure the condition.” [¶] Limiting a landlord's obligations  releases it from needing to engage in potentially intrusive oversight of the  property, thus permitting the tenant to enjoy its tenancy unmolested.’ ” (Ibid.,  quoting Stone v. Center Trust Retail Properties, Inc. (2008) 163  Cal.App.4th 608, 612.)  “To  this general rule of nonliability, the law has developed a number of  exceptions, such as where the landlord covenants or volunteers to repair a  defective condition on the premises [citations], where the landlord has actual  knowledge of defects which are unknown and not apparent to the tenant and he  fails to disclose them to the tenant [citation], where there is a nuisance  existing on the property at the time the lease is made or renewed [citation],  when a safety law has been violated [citation], or where the injury occurs on a  part of the premises over which the landlord retains control, such as common  hallways, stairs, elevators or roof [citation].”  (Uccello v. Laudenslayer  (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 504, 511 (Uccello).)  “A  common element in these exceptions is that either at or after the time  possession is given to the tenant the landlord retains or acquires a  recognizable degree of control over the dangerous condition with a concomitant  right and power to obviate the condition and prevent the injury. In these  situations, the law imposes on the landlord a duty to use ordinary care to  eliminate the condition with resulting liability for injuries caused by his  failure so to act. [Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint alleges the following:  On March 15, 2022, Plaintiff walked into a building  located at 3043 Townsgate Rd. Westlake, CA 91361 (“premises”), swiped his  security card to unlock the door, and pulled the door handle to open the door.  The door handle “flung out of the door and  violently struck Plaintiff in the face,” injuring Plaintiff.  Defendants negligently owned, maintained, managed, and  operated the premises.  B.   Undisputed facts  Westlake owned the premises.  Cushman was the premises’ property manager.  Pennymac,  which employed Plaintiff, was a tenant at the premises.  Before  his accident, Plaintiff was not aware of any problems with the door at issue,  which he used five times a week to reach the cafeteria.  C.   Defendants have not carried their initial burden on  summary judgment or summary adjudication  1.    Westlake  Defendants  assert that Westlake is entitled to summary judgment or summary adjudication  because it did not have actual knowledge of any defect in the door.  (See Salinas, supra, 166  Cal.App.4th at p. 412 [“ ‘ “before liability may be thrust on a landlord for a  third party's injury due to a dangerous condition on the land, the plaintiff  must show that the landlord had actual knowledge of the dangerous condition in  question, plus the right and ability to cure the condition” ’ ”].)  Defendants  have presented evidence that Westlake was not aware of any defect in the door  or its handle that may have caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s accident.  (See Declaration of Robert Searles ¶ 5.)   In  response, Plaintiff argues that he is not required to show that Westlake had  actual knowledge of a defect in the door because Westlake never relinquished  control over the premises to its tenant Pennymac.  Plaintiff points to the lease agreement  between Westlake and Pennymac, which provides in part:  “6.3 Landlord's Repair Obligations. Notwithstanding  the provisions of Section 6.2 above to the contrary, Landlord shall, as part of  the Operating Expenses, repair and maintain in a good condition (a) the  Building's shell and other structural portions of the Building (including the  roof and foundations), (b) the basic plumbing, heating, ventilating, air  conditioning, sprinkler and electrical systems within the Building's core and  (c) the Common Areas . . . .”  (Exh. A to  Shy decl.)            Plaintiff asserts that Paragraph 2.2 of the lease defines “Common  Areas” as “the common entrances, lobbies,  restrooms on multi-tenant floors, elevators, stairways….”  (Opposition p. 4.)  According to Plaintiff, the door at issue was  in a common area which Westlake was required to maintain.  As  Defendants note, Plaintiff has failed to include Paragraph 2.2 of the lease in  his exhibits submitted in opposition to Defendants’ motion.  Nonetheless, the lease portion that Plaintiff  has submitted states that Westlake shall “repair and maintain . . . the  Building’s shell . . . [and] the Common Areas.”   (Exh. A.)  Defendants have presented  no evidence showing that the door at issue was not located in the Building’s shell  or a common area within the meaning of the lease.  Citing  the testimony of Cushman’s person most qualified, Defendants argue that  Pennymac, not Westlake, was responsible for inspecting and maintaining the door.  Because this testimony is inconsistent with  the lease language, it does not establish as a matter of law that Wakefield  relinquished control over the door when it leased the premises to Pennymac.            Defendants also contend that Pennymac’s installation of a  security system which required a security badge “prevented Defendants from inspecting  or maintaining the operation of the door.”   (Reply p. 3.)  To support this  assertion, Defendants cite the declaration of Westlake “Member” Robert Searles,  who states that Westlake did not have access to Pennymac’s security system and  therefore could not operate or inspect the door’s functioning before Plaintiff’s  accident.  (Searles decl. ¶ 6.)  Searles’s  statement is inconsistent with the lease, which states in part:  “Tenant shall have the right to install and operate a  separate security system for the Premises and Building (including approved  access panels and cameras in the Premises, Building and parking areas serving  the Building) . . . Tenant shall provide Landlord with access codes, key fobs  or other means of access to enter Tenant's Premises for purposes of providing  any services to the Premises for which Landlord is expressly obligated to  perform under the express terms of this Lease.”   (Exh. A to Shy decl.)            Therefore, Searles’s declaration does not establish as a  matter of law that Wakefield could not inspect or maintain the door due to  Pennymac’s security system.      For  these reasons, Defendants may not rely on the rule that a landlord which  relinquishes control over its property to a tenant cannot be liable to an  injured third party unless the landlord had actual notice of the defect which  caused the injury.  Instead, to carry their initial  burden on summary judgment or adjudication, Defendants must also present  evidence that Plaintiff cannot prove Westlake had constructive notice of the  defect.  Defendants  assert they lacked constructive notice of the dangerous condition because (1) a  locksmith found no defect in the door six weeks before the accident, (2)  Plaintiff was not aware of any defect before the accident, and (3) after the  accident, the locksmith found a stripped screw in the door’s interior which was  not visible to the naked eye.  (Reply p.  4.)  But Plaintiff has presented evidence  that, under the lease, Westlake had a duty to repair and maintain portions of  the premises, including the door, and did not do so.  (See Uccello, supra, 44 Cal.App.3d at p. 511.)  The  Court finds that Defendants have not carried their initial burden on summary  judgment or adjudication of showing that they lacked constructive notice of  the defect.  At a minimum, Plaintiff has  raised a triable issue of fact concerning constructive notice.  2.    Cushman  As the  premises property manager, Cushman was Westlake’s agent. (See exh. B to Shy decl.,  p. 97.)  The management agreement between  Westlake and Cushman required Cushman to “take all steps reasonably appropriate  to keep the [premises] in good condition and repair and . . . monitor all  independent contractors responsible for the repair and maintenance of the [premises]  . . . .”  (Exh. C to Shy decl.)  Defendants  argue that, “for the same reasons as [Westlake], Cushman did not have access to  the door at issue because of Pennymac’s security system.”  (Motion p. 8.)  Based  on the Court’s discussion above concerning Westlake, the Court finds that Defendants  have not carried their initial summary judgment or summary adjudication burden on Plaintiff’s claims  against Cushman.  At a minimum, Plaintiff  has raised a triable issue of fact concerning constructive notice.            The Court denies Defendants’ motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication filed by Defendants Westlake  Plaza Center East-II, LLC and Cushman  & Wakefield of California, Inc.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days. II. Plaintiff's motion to quash subpoena for employment recordsHaving
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND On
October 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash employment record subpoenas.  The motion was set for hearing on November
25, 2024.  On November 12, 2024,
Defendants filed an opposition.  On
November 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. PARTIES’ REQUESTS           Plaintiff asks the Court to quash Westlake’s subpoena
asking Pennymac for Plaintiff’s employment records.           Defendants ask the Court to deny the motion. LEGAL STANDARD Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: "(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. "(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part: “(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records. * * *  “No witness or
deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records after receipt
of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer . . . except upon
order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the
parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides: “Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an
order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) “Even
highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if
its disclosure would impair a person’s ‘inalienable right of privacy’ provided
by [the California Constitution].”  (L.
Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: 
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97 (Cal.
Practice Guide).)  The United States
constitution also guarantees the right to privacy.  (Ibid.) Privacy
rights provide qualified, not absolute, protection.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:294,
p. 8C-98.)  “In each case, the Court must
carefully balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery
[citation].  The showing required to
overcome the protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in
some cases, a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a
compelling interest must be shown.  ‘Only
obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported
by a compelling interest.’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557 (Williams).)  “The burden is on ‘the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies.’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 557.) “The
party seeking discovery must show a particularized need for the confidential
information sought. The broad ‘relevancy to the subject matter’ standard is not
enough here. The court must be convinced that the information is directly
relevant to a cause of action or defense, i.e., that it is essential to
determining the truth of the matters in dispute.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:320, p. 8C-119, emphasis omitted.) “
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . .
. an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only
discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy interests may have
to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance
the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy
interests of persons subject to discovery”].)  DISCUSSION On September
10, 2024, Westlake served a deposition subpoena on Pennymac, Plaintiff’s employer.  The deposition subpoena asked Pennymac to
produce “Employment records.  All
documents and records, including employment application, work absence records, medical
reports, incident reports, pre-employment medical examination employee progress
reports and disciplinary actions pertaining to the employment of Benjamin Karp [omitted]
from the first date of employment to, and including, the present.” Plaintiff
argues the subpoena is overbroad and violates his right to privacy.  Plaintiff notes that he is not claiming lost
earnings or loss of earning capacity.  Instead, he seeks damages for injuries to his
forehead, head, neck, and left shoulder. In
response, Defendants contend that “[Plaintiff] himself . . . placed his work
performance at issue” (Opposition p. 3) by testifying at his deposition that
his injuries were affecting his ability to perform his job.  Yet Defendants’ counsel asked
Plaintiff, “Has your neurological impairment, as you’ve described it, affected
your ability to do your job?”  (Exh. A,
pp. 32-33.)  Plaintiff simply answered
counsel’s question in the affirmative. Defendants
also point to a notation in the chart of Plaintiff’s neurologist that Plaintiff
“is having significant difficulties with activities of daily living, work and
sleep.”  (Exh. B.)  It is hard to see how Plaintiff “placed his work
performance at issue” in this lawsuit by providing this information to his
neurologist. The
Court has considered the parties’ arguments and weighed Plaintiff’s privacy
rights against Westlake’s right to seek discoverable information.  The Court concludes that the subpoena is
overbroad and violates Plaintiff’s privacy rights because it does not seek
records that are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims. The
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to quash. CONCLUSION The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Ben Karp’s motion to quash Defendant Westlake Plaza
Center East-II, LLC’s deposition subpoena issued to Pennymac for employment
records.  The Court quashes the
deposition subpoena. Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 











































































































































Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.