 Case Number:  23STCV16695    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff Felicia Patterson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Shannon Yao Wang (“Defendant”)
and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
September 25, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On February
22, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to deem admitted matters
specified in requests for admission, set one, served on Plaintiff. 
On February
26, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
On
May 23, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set for hearing on November
25, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 13, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS  
          Defendant asks the Court to grant summary judgment against
Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment must support the motion with “a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts which
the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview
Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th
1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas), quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a
separate statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the
moving party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Negligence 
 “The
elements of a negligence claim . . . are . . . : a legal duty of care, breach
of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior
Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
C.   Requests for admission 
“[Requests
for admission] are different from other civil discovery tools such as
depositions, interrogatories, and requests for documents. ‘Most of the other
discovery procedures are aimed primarily at assisting counsel to prepare for
trial. Requests for admissions, on the other hand, are primarily aimed at
setting at rest a triable issue so that it will not have to be tried.’ ”  (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 774-775, quoting Cembrook v. Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 423, 429.)  “[A]dmission requests
seek to eliminate the need for proof: ‘[T]he purpose of the admissions
procedure ... is to limit the triable issues and spare the parties the burden
and expense of litigating undisputed issues.’ Sometimes, the admissions
obtained will even leave the party making them vulnerable to summary judgment.”
(Id. at p. 775, quoting Hogan & Weber, 1 Cal. Civil Discovery (2d
ed. 2005) § 9.1, p. 9–2, fns. omitted.)  “Matters that are admitted or deemed admitted
through RFA discovery devices are conclusively established in the litigation
and are not subject to being contested through contradictory evidence.”  (Ibid., citing Murillo v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 730, 736.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges in part: 
On
July 15, 2021, at or about the intersection of South Harvard Boulevard and West
Sixth Street in Los Angeles, “[t]he defendant was operating a motor vehicle and
owed a duty to those around her to safely operate said motor vehicle.  The defendant breached this duty to those
around her when she suddenly and so [sic] negligently while backing her vehicle
and collided with the plaintiff, a pedestrian, causing damage to the Plaintiff’s
person.” 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Defendant was not negligent with respect to the accident. Defendant is not liable to
Plaintiff for any injuries Plaintiff contends resulted from the accident.  Defendant is not liable to Plaintiff for any
damages Plaintiff contends resulted from the accident.  Plaintiff did not sustain any injuries as a
result of the accident. Plaintiff did not
sustain any damages as a result of the accident.  None of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries were
caused, in whole or in part, by the accident. None of Plaintiff’s alleged
damages were caused, in whole or in part, by the accident. Plaintiff’s claims
against Defendant are without merit. 
(UMF 1-17.) 
C.   Defendant has carried her initial summary judgment
burden 
Relying
on the Court’s order deeming admitted matters specified in Defendant’s requests
for admission served on Plaintiff, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has admitted
Defendant was not negligent, Defendant is not liable to Plaintiff, Plaintiff
did not sustain any injuries or damages as a result of the accident, and
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant are without merit.  Defendant has carried her initial burden on
summary judgment, shifting the burden to Plaintiff. 
D.   Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion.  As a result, Plaintiff has not raised a triable
issue of fact concerning negligence, causation, or damages. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Shannon Yao Wang’s motion for summary judgment of Plaintiff
Felicia Patterson’s complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.