  Case Number:  21STCV07836    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SABRINA PETERSON, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CLIFFORD HARRIS, an individual PKA TI; TAMEKA HARRIS, an
  individual PKA TINY; and SHEKINAH JONES ANDERSON, an individual,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          21STCV07836
 Hearing Date:   October
  21, 2024
 Trial Date:        December
  10, 2024
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Enforce Court Order, or, in the Alternative, for Terminating
  Sanctions



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Sabrina Peterson (Peterson)
sues Defendants Clifford Harris, Tameka Harris, and Shekinah Jones Anderson
pursuant to a March 1, 2021 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Defamation (Libel
Per Se), (2) Defamation (Trade Libel), (3) Invasion of Privacy (False Light),
(4) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (5) Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (6) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, and (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
The claims arise from allegations
that, among other things, after Plaintiff Peterson posted a video and messages
to her Instagram account accusing Defendants Clifford and Tameka Harris (the
Harris Defendants) of various forms of sexual and physical abuse, Defendants
made social media posts relating to Plaintiff Peterson’s son, sexual acts that
Plaintiff Peterson allegedly engaged in with the Harris Defendants, and other
subjects, which led to Plaintiff Peterson being harassed by persons on
Instagram, as well as to various damages being suffered by Plaintiff Peterson.
B. Relevant Procedural History
On June 2, 2023, the Second
District Court of Appeal reversed in part an order denying an anti-SLAPP
motion, ruling that five of the seven causes of action in the Complaint violate
California’s anti-SLAPP statute and ordered Peterson to pay the Harris
Defendants’ attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with their
successful anti-SLAPP motion. 
Following remand and briefing
before this Court, on October 17, 2023, the Court ordered Peterson to pay
$96,702.70 to the Harris Defendants on or before January 15, 2024.
Peterson has failed to do so. 
C. Motion Before the Court
On August 29, 2024, Defendants
Clifford Harris and Tameka Harris (the Harris Defendants) filed the instant
motion to enforce court order, or, in the alternative, for terminating
sanctions. The Harris Defendants request that the Court enter judgment for
attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $96,702.70 in favor of the Harris
Defendants and against Plaintiff. Or, in the alterative, request that, as
terminating sanctions, the Court dismiss the two remaining causes of action in
the Complaint with prejudice. 
On September 19, 2024, Peterson
opposed the motion. 
On October 3, 2024, the Harris
Defendants replied. 
The motion came before the Court
for hearing on October 10, 2024. Following argument of counsel, the Court
requested that the parties submit supplemental briefing on the issue of whether
the Court may issue judgment in favor of the moving defendants based on the
attorneys’ fees award they received as prevailing parties on their anti-SLAPP
motion following appeal. 
A further hearing on the motion was
scheduled for October 21, 2024. 
On October 17, 2024 both parties
submitted their supplemental briefs. 
 
II. Motion to Enforce Court Order
On June 2, 2023, the Second
District Court of Appeal ruled that five of the seven causes of action in Peterson’s
Complaint violate California’s anti-SLAPP statute and ordered Peterson to pay
the Harris Defendants’ attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with
their successful anti-SLAPP motion. Following remand and briefing before this
Court, on October 17, 2023, the Court ordered Peterson to pay $96,702.70 to the
Harris Defendants on or before January 15, 2024. To date, Peterson has failed
to do so. Accordingly, the Harris Defendants argue that they are entitled to an
entry of judgment for attorneys’ fees and costs. (Mot. p. 8.)
Alternatively, the Harris
Defendants argue that the Court should grant terminating sanctions dismissing
the two remaining causes of action, with prejudice. The Harris Defendants argue
that Peterson’s willful disobedience of the Court’s October 17 Order is a valid
basis alone for issuing terminating sanctions, but that in addition, Peterson’s
failure to prosecute the action further warrants terminating sanctions. (Mot.
p. 9.) The Harris Defendants assert that Peterson has failed to meaningfully participate
in this action. They argue that Peterson and Peterson’s counsel have failed to
timely oppose motions, appear at hearings, or communicate with Defendants
counsel in over a year. (Mot. p. 10.) Peterson’s attorney Tyron Blackburn’s
application to appear pro hac vice was denied by this Court on March 22, 2024
for failure to provide certain required information and proof of payment to the
State Bar, and no subsequent applications have been filed. The Harris
Defendants further emphasize that, despite a trial date in December 2024,
Peterson “has failed to serve a single document request, a single
interrogatory, a single deposition notice, or issue a single subpoena.” (Mot.
p. 10:3-4.) 
In opposition, Peterson argues that
the Court should stay enforcement of the October 17, 2023 Order until the
conclusion of trial. (Opp. p. 3.) Peterson further argues that there is no
authority for the imposition of terminating sanctions. (Opp. p. 4.) Finally,
Peterson argues that she should not be faulted for failing to prosecute the
action because the case was stayed while the matter was on appeal. (Opp. p. 5.)

In their supplemental briefing, the
Harris Defendants argue that the Court can issue judgment in their favor based
on the attorneys’ fees award they received as prevailing parties on their
anti-SLAPP motion following appeal because an award of costs originating in the
Court of Appeal, as opposed to the trial court, “represents an independent
judgment, enforceable by any available means.” (Rostack Invs., Inc. v.
Sabella (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 70, 78.) They argue that here, as in Rostack,
the award of attorneys’ fees and costs had its origin in the order of the
Appellate Court, and the amount of the award could then be determined in the
trial court. (Harris Defendants Suppl. Brief., pp. 2-3; Rostack, supra, 32
Cal.App.5th at 78-9.) 
In Peterson’s supplemental
briefing, she argues that the attorneys’ fees and costs the Harris Defendants
seek here originated in the anti-SLAPP statute, not the Court of Appeal, and
thus are not immediately enforceable as a separate judgment. (Plaintiff Suppl.
Brief., pp. 3-4.) Peterson argues that in Rostack, the cost award
stemmed from Rule of Court rule 8.278, but here the cost award stems from the
anti-SLAPP statute in Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. Peterson argues
that the Court of Appeal explained this distinction in Lucky United
Properties Investment, Inc. v. Lee (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 635 (Lucky II).
In Lucky II, the Court of Appeal states: “[n]o statute or rule similarly
provides that an award of costs or fees incurred on appeal pursuant to other
statutory authority (such as § 425.16(c)) is enforceable as a separate money
judgment.” (Lucky II, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at 655.)
Here, the Court of Appeal distinguishes
that costs and fees awarded pursuant to the anti-SLAPP statute are not
immediately enforceable as a separate judgment, unlike costs and fees awarded
pursuant to other authority such as Rule of Court rule 8.278, (Compare, Rostack,
supra, 32 Cal.App.5th 70, and, Lucky II, supra, 213
Cal.App.4th 635). 
Accordingly, the Harris Defendants’
motion to enforce court order, i.e., enter judgment for attorneys’ fees
and costs is DENIED.
III. Motion for Terminating Sanctions 
            As an
alternative to their motion to enforce court order, the Harris Defendants also
move for terminating sanctions. 
The Court DENIES the motion for
terminating sanctions given Plaintiff’s recent substitution of attorney.
However, the trial date set for December 10, 2024, is firm, absent good cause.
Should the Defendants demonstrate Plaintiff’s failure to prosecute the case the
Court may consider a further motion for terminating sanctions. (Dubois v.
Corroon & Black Corp. (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1689 [affirming dismissal
of case for failure to prosecute.)
IV. Conclusion
The Motion to Enforce Court Order, or, in the Alternative, for
Terminating Sanctions is DENIED.  