 Case Number:  23STCV10643    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ROBERT HEFFLEY, JR., Successor In Interest To His Wife, SULMA
  HEFFLEY-RODRIGUEZ, and ROBERT HEFFLEY, JR.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Lakewood REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER, INC., JOSHUA DANIELS, RN., ROWEN
  MECANO, RN, MATTHEW SANDOVAL MHA, and DOES 1 to 50, Inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV10643
 Hearing Date:   October
  21, 2024
 Trial Date:        September
  23, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Demurrer and
  Motion to Strike [RES ID # 3618] 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs Robert Heffley,
Jr.—individually and as successor in interest to his wife, Sulma Heffley
Rodriguez (decedent)—sue Defendants Lakewood Regional Medical Center, Inc. (Lakewood),
Joshua Daniels, RN, Rowen Mecano, RN, Matthew Sandoval MHA, and Does 1 through
50 pursuant to a July 2, 2024 Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act (Welf. & Ins. Code, § 15600, et seq.); (2) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Negligence and (4) Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress. 
For ease of reference, the Court
refers to Plaintiffs by their first name. No disrespect is intended. 
The claims arise from the following
allegations. As a result of being diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer with
lytic lesions in the L4-L5 vertebral bodies, Sulma was admitted to Lakewood, a
care custodian operating a twenty-four-hour facility for custodial care. Sulma
was hospitalized at Lakewood between May 11, 2022, and June 17, 2022. During
that time, Sulma was dependent on Lakewood and its employees/other Defendants
for her basic needs, such as personal hygiene and feeding, among other things.
Nevertheless, during Sulma’s inpatient treatment, Sulma was subjected to
mistreatment, negligent care, and neglect when Lakewood nurses repeatedly left
Sulma sitting in her own feces and urine for prolonged periods of time over a
period of days or weeks, developing bedsores. Robert, Sulma’s husband,
repeatedly received calls from Sulma regarding this neglect, prompting Robert
on numerous occasions to call the hospital to demand that Sulma be changed.
Robert also visited Sulma and found her at times sitting in her own feces and
urine, again demanding immediate attention for Sulma. Despite these protests, Lakewood
staff indicated that they were short staffed, and that Sulma would need to
wait. Multiple Lakewood staff noted that they were understaffed, including
Sulma’s treating doctor (Tate) and nurses at Lakewood. Moreover, Defendant
Daniels and Mecano separately admitted that Sulma was treated inhumanely and
that Lakewood was short staffed. Sulma subsequently died around July 20, 2022. 
Robert sues Defendants individually
based on his own injuries in seeing Sulma suffer from the above conduct at Lakewood,
as well as based on Sulma’s injuries, with Robert as successor in interest of
Sulma.
B. Motion Before the Court
On August
2, 2024, Defendants demurred to the second cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress and the fourth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that each claim fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. 

The same day, Defendants also filed
a motion to strike portions of the SAC. 
On October 7, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed separate oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike. There is no
reply in the file.
 
II. Demurrer
A.   
Meet and Confer
The Defendants have satisfied the
meet and confer requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41
subdivision (a)(3)(A). (Arabian Decl. ¶ 3.) 

B.   
Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States”. 
The court however may not take
judicial notice of the truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
Documents are only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what
orders were made such that the truth of the facts and findings within the
documents are not judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell,
Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)  
Pursuant to the Plaintiffs request,
the Court takes judicial notice of this Court’s June 25, 2024, Minute Order.
(RJN, Ex. 1.)
C.   
Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) 
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)
A demurrer for uncertainty tests
whether the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).) 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, disapproved
on other grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19
Cal.4th 26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business practices need not be pled
specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].) As a result, a special
demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate
sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing
in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149
Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v. J.E.
French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations
question].) 
D.   
Analysis
Defendants demur to (1) the second
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress and (2) the
fourth cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, on the
ground that each claim fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and is uncertain.
1.    
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“A cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the
defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050-1051.) 
            Defendants
contend that the SAC only conclusory states that Robert suffered ‘severe’
emotional distress, does not plead facts demonstrating extreme or outrageous
behavior on behalf of the Defendants, and does not establish that Defendants
acted intentionally or recklessly. (Demurrer, pp. 2-4.)  
            Here,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently plead a cause of action for IIED. The SAC alleges
that Robert suffered severe emotional distress because he personally observed the
Defendants failing to adequately assist Sulma with her personal hygiene,
repeatedly leaving her to sit in feces and urine for prolonged periods of time
and the inattentive care continued despite Robert’s multiple emails to
Defendants requesting that nursing staff assist Sulma and expressing his
concern and anger. (See, e.g., SAC ¶¶ 25-27, 30, 32-34, 38, 40.)  Robert further alleges that Defendants “acted
with reckless disregard of the probability that [Robert] would suffer emotional
distress, knowing that he was present when the conduct occurred …” (SAC ¶ 58.)  
            Thus, the
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
2.    
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
There is no independent tort of negligent infliction of
emotional distress. (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 790, 818.) 
“[The] negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence ….” (Marllene F. v. Affiliated
Psychiatric Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.) 
Regarding whether NIED is an independent cause of action,
it “is already the law in California” that “there is no duty to avoid
negligently causing emotional distress to another, … that damages for emotional
distress are recoverable only if the defendant has breached some other duty[]
[Citations[]],” and that the “tort is negligence, a cause of action in which a
duty to the plaintiff is an essential element. (Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984-985; see id. at p. 985
[“[U]unless the defendant has assumed a duty to plaintiff in which the
emotional condition of the plaintiff is an object, recovery is available only
if the emotional distress arises out of the defendant’s breach of some other
legal duty and the emotional distress is proximately caused by that breach of
duty. Even then, with rare exceptions, a breach of the duty must threaten
physical injury, not simply damage to property or financial interests.
[Citations.]”].) 
Defendants argue that NIED is not an independent tort, but rather the
tort of negligence. They further argue that Robert fails to plead facts
sufficient to constitute a claim for NIED as either a direct victim or
bystander because he was neither a direct victim of the Defendant’s negligent
nor was physically present at the time of the injury producing event. (Demurrer
pp. 5-8.)  
Here, the Court agrees that NIED is not an independent cause
of action. Further, although the SAC also includes a cause of action for negligence,
and NIED can be a theory of recovery for negligence, the SAC only alleges
negligence as to Defendants treatment of Sulma, it does not allege any duty or
breach of duty to Robert. (SAC ¶¶ 61-72.) As a result, there is no basis for
Robert to assert a claim for NIED regarding any emotional distress he may have
suffered.
            Thus, the
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED, with leave to
amend. 
 
III. Motion to Strike
            The court
may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems
proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b).) 
The Defendants move to strike the
entire second cause of action for IIED and the accompanying prayer for relief
as well as the entire fourth cause of action for NIED as its accompanying
prayer for relief. 
Here, the Court has overruled the
demurrer to the second cause of action for IIED and sustained the demurrer to
the fourth cause of action for NIED. 
Thus, the Defendants’ motion to
strike the second cause of action for IIED and the accompanying prayer for
relief is DENIED. The Defendants’ motion to strike the fourth cause of action
for NIED and its accompanying prayer for relief is GRANTED.
IV. Conclusion
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED as to the Second Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 Defendants’ Demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend, as the Fourth Cause of Action for
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
The Defendants’ motion to strike
the Second Cause of Action for IIED and the accompanying prayer for relief is
DENIED. 
The Defendants’ motion to strike
the Fourth Cause of Action for NIED and its accompanying prayer for relief is
GRANTED.
            Plaintiff
shall file his amended pleading, if he wishes, within 14 days of this ruling.
Defendant’s Answer to the operative
complaint shall be filed within 30 days of this ruling.