  Case Number:  22STCP03824    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  76 Motion To Compel Deposition
of Non-Party Richard Marcus
Discussion
            Plaintiff
Abbie Gougerchian moves to compel the deposition of non-party Richard Marcus,
which was originally scheduled to occur on April 24, 2023, and of the
imposition of sanctions against Defendants and their counsel of record. Marcus
did not appear for the deposition and did not even serve any written
objections, nor file any motions in response to the deposition notice.
Defendants filed a motion to quash this deposition subpoena, which stayed the
taking of the deposition, then withdrew it.
            On
April 3, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on this motion pursuant to
stipulation and order in light of the parties agreeing that the deposition
would proceed on May 1, 2024. On May 13, 2024, Defendant Patrick Gogerchin
filed a Supplemental Opposition indicating that Marcus appeared for a first
deposition session, and thus, he argues, the motion is moot.
            On
May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Supplemental Brief indicating that this motion
is limited to the production of documents and not the appearance of Marcus for
his deposition. 
            Defendant
argues that the objections were valid and proper.
            Civ.
Proc. Code § 1987.1(a) provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
. . . documents . . . at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion . .
. may make an order . . . directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare. . . .” (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.1.)  § 1987.1 does not contain a
meet and confer requirement.
 
            However,
case law has imposed the “good cause” requirement for subpoena document
requests propounded upon non-parties, that is, the propounding party must
articulate specific facts relating to each category of materials sought to
justify production:
 
 
In the course of the litigation, Thiem
served a subpoena under section 2020 on Calcor's custodian of records demanding
Calcor, a nonparty and Thiem's competitor, to, in effect, produce all materials
in its possession relating to gun mounts, going back nearly 10 years. The
subpoena fails to identify any specific document but merely describes broad
categories of documents and other materials. 


     (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 219.)
 
Although the scope of civil discovery
is broad, it is not limitless. . . . 
[Former] Section 2031, subdivision (l), which applies to document
production requests served on a party, requires a  [*224]  party
seeking to compel such production to "set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand . . . ." (Italics in original.)
Section 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement.
However, since both sections are part of a single statutory scheme, and since
it is unlikely the Legislature intended to place greater burdens on a nonparty
than on a party to the litigation, we read a similar requirement into the
latter section. 


(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 223-24.)
 

Even were we to ignore that the statements purporting to justify an order
compelling Calcor to produce its documents and other materials are unverified,
they still fail. There is an absence
of specific facts relating to each category of materials sought to be produced;
the justifications offered for the production are mere generalities.
The very vice of the subpoena's promiscuity is well illustrated by Thiem's inability to provide focused, fact-specific
justifications for its demands. The noted generality of the subpoena's
definitions, instructions and categories which merely add up to a demand Calcor
produce everything in its possession having anything to do with gun mounts,
precludes Thiem from demonstrating any particular item or category in fact
constitutes or contains matter which "is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence." (§ 2017, subd. (a).) The purported justification for
imposing this great burden on Calcor necessarily suffers from the same
generality as the subpoena itself. 

Although appellate courts have frequently stated "fishing
expeditions" are permissible in discovery, there is a limit. As noted in
Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1539 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 896],
"These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery ( Colonial Life
& Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal. 3d 785, 790), and
(contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases." (Id. at p. 1546.) However, early in the development of our
discovery law our Supreme Court recognized the limits on such "fishing
expeditions." In  [*225] Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355 [15 Cal. Rptr. 90, 364 P.2d 266], the seminal case in
California civil discovery, the court gave examples of improper
"fishing" which clearly apply here: "The method of 'fishing' may be, in a particular case,
entirely improper (i.e., insufficient identification of the requested
information to acquaint the other party with the nature of information desired,
attempt to place the burden and cost of supplying information equally available
to both solely upon the adversary, placing more burden upon the adversary than
the value of the information warrants, etc.). Such improper methods of
'fishing' may be (and should be) controlled by the trial court under the powers
granted to it by the statute." ( Id. at pp. 384-385.) The concerns for
avoiding undue burdens on the "adversary" in the litigation expressed
in Greyhound apply with even more weight to a nonparty. 

Had the Greyhound court been able to anticipate the tremendous burdens
promiscuous discovery has placed on litigants and nonparties alike, it might
well have taken a stronger stand against such "fishing." Greyhound's
optimism in noting the then new discovery system would be "simple,
convenient and inexpensive," would "expedite litigation," and
"expedite and facilitate both preparation and trial," has certainly
proven to have been considerably off the mark. (56 Cal. 2d at p. 376.) 

The issues in this litigation may essentially be reduced [***18]  to
the question whether Thiem's work met Delco's specifications. This may be
determined without any reference to the contract between Delco and Calcor or
the specifications which are part of that contract. Another issue which may
exist is whether Delco may recover the excess of the cost of the gun mounts
procured from Calcor as damages for "cover" under California Uniform
Commercial Code section 2712. (See Gerwin v. Southeastern Cal. Assn. of Seventh
Day Adventists (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 209, 217-218 [92 Cal. Rptr. 111].) If so,
differences in specifications issued to Thiem and to Calcor may be relevant.
However, discovery by Thiem from Delco should normally provide it with this
evidence. HN11As between parties to litigation and nonparties, the burden of
discovery should be placed on the latter only if the former do not possess the
material sought to be discovered. An exception to this may exist where a
showing is made the material obtained from the party is unreliable and may be
subject to impeachment by material in possession of the nonparty. Thiem has not
even attempted to demonstrate why it cannot obtain the needed materials from
Delco or why such materials might be unreliable. 


(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 224-25 [bold
emphasis and underlining added].) 
            The
Court continued the hearing on this matter to permit Plaintiff to submit a
separate statement which makes fact-specific showing of good cause for each of
the 13 categories of documents sought in the deposition subpoena.
            Moreover,
as pointed out by Defendant, this motion to compel Marcus was not served upon
Marcus. Plaintiff filed a proof of service reflecting that Marcus was served on
March 22, 2024.
            The
Court will address the separate statement submitted by Plaintiff on March 22,
2024:
¿        Requests For Production Nos. 1 – 13:
DENIED.
            In
the separate statement, Plaintiff has not made a fact-specific showing
of good cause for the production of documents sought. Plaintiff simply cut and
pasted a generalized, vague statement, which does not truly address each
category of documents. Even in the Supplemental Brief, Plaintiff does not make
an adequate fact-specific showing of good cause for each of the 13 categories
of documents.
In this regard,
Defendant’s objection on the ground of relevance/discoverability is SUSTAINED. 
Plaintiff may
serve a revised deposition subpoena for production of records with more
specific categories, and move to compel compliance with that deposition
subpoena if necessary, setting forth a fact-specific showing of good cause for
each category, not just a generalized vague statement, as Plaintiff did here.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is also DENIED.