 Case Number:  22STCV01460    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV01460




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Intervene 




MOVING PARTY:


Non-party United Specialty Insurance
  Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 13, 2022, Plaintiff Joshua Mason (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Legacy Freight Lines, Humberto Silva, Omar Cortez,
and Does 1 to 10 for negligence surrounding a motor vehicle accident that
occurred on March 31, 2021. Defendants Legacy Freight Lines and Humberto Silva
did not respond to the complaint. On January 10, 2023, the Court entered
default against Humberto Silva. On July 5, 2023, the Court entered default
against Legacy Freight Lines. 
 
On November 27, 2023, non-party United Specialty Insurance Company (“United”)
filed the instant motion for leave to intervene and defend the action brought
against Legacy Freight Lines and Humberto Silva. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 387(d) provides, “[t]he court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: . . . (B) The
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect
that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one
or more of the existing parties.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(1)(B).) Also,
“[t]he court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in
the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in
litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against
both.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(2).) 
 
“Pursuant to section 387 the trial court has discretion to permit a
nonparty to intervene where the following factors are met: (1) the proper
procedures have been followed; (2) the nonparty has a direct and immediate
interest in the action; (3) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the
litigation; and (4) the reasons for the intervention outweigh any opposition by
the parties presently in the action.” (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.) 
 
An insurance company may intervene in an action against its insured when
the insured is not defending the action, in order to avoid harm to the insurer.
(Western Heritage Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 1196, 1205.) This right to intervene arises from Insurance Code
section 11580(b)(2), which allows a judgment creditor for a personal injury
action to recover the judgment against the insurer, pursuant to its policy
limits. (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 383, 386; Ins. Code, § 11580(b)(2).) “[I]ntervention by an insurer
is permitted where the insurer remains liable for any default judgment against
the insured, and it has no means other than intervention to litigate liability
or damage issues.” (Id. at 385.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, United argues it provided liability coverage to Legacy Freight
Lines and Humberto Silva (“Defendants”) for the vehicle involved in this
action. (Baraban Decl.) The accident occurred within the policy term and United
has lost contact with Defendants. Therefore, United appears to have a direct
interest in this case. It also does not appear the issues in this case would be
enlarged by intervention. Seeing as Defendants did not file responsive
pleadings to the complaint, it appears they have failed to defend this action.
Therefore, the motion for leave to intervene is granted. 
 
Though United has attached
a proposed answer, United did not move to set aside the defaults against Legacy
Freight Lines and Humberto Silva. United must move to set aside the defaults
before filing an answer on Defendants’ behalf. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Accordingly, the Court grants United
Specialty Insurance Company’s motion for leave to intervene. United Specialty
Insurance Company must file and serve a motion or stipulation to set aside the
defaults within 15 days and file and serve the answer within 15 days if the
defaults are set aside.
 
United Specialty Insurance Company shall provide notice of the Court’s
order and file a proof of service of such.