 Case Number:  21STCV35189    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV35189




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Red Bull North America, Inc.,
  Red Bull Distribution Company, Inc., and Mickey Vasquez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Elia Rosa Mercado Leiva 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 24, 2021 Plaintiff Elia Rosa Mercado Leiva (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Mickey Vasquez (“Vasquez”), Red Bull North
America, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for negligence resulting from a motor vehicle
accident that occurred on April 30, 2021. Vasquez was allegedly operating a
vehicle while in the scope of employment with Red Bull. Plaintiff also alleges
that Red Bull negligently “operated, owned, entrusted, managed,
maintained, and/or repaired the subject motor vehicle.” (Complaint, 6.) On August 16,
2022, Plaintiff filed amendments to the complaint, substituting Red Bull
Distribution Company, Inc. as Does 1, 11, 21, and 31. 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff served an amended deposition notice on Red
Bull Distribution Company’s person most qualified (“PMQ”) for five topics (25
to 29) related to Defendant Vasquez’s pay, incentives and Red Bull sales
quotas.  (Vargas Decl., Exh E.)
Defendants served objections on January 5, 2024. (Vargas Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. F, G.)

 
Defendants Red Bull North America, Inc., Red Bull Distribution
Company, Inc., and Mickey Vasquez (“Defendants”) now move to quash the Notice
of taking the deposition of Red Bull’s PMQ as to topics 25 to 29, to stay
taking the deposition as to topics 25 to 29, and for a protective order
excusing Defendants from responding to further discovery requests on these
topics. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
In response to a deposition notice, “[i]n addition to
serving [a] written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the
taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. This motion shall
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. The
taking of the deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter
7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to quash a deposition notice, unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025.410(c), (d).) 
 
Additionally,
before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other
affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective
order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025. 420(a).) 
 
The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b).) 
 
Similarly, courts must restrict the
frequency or extent of a discovery method such as oral depositions or
inspection of documents if it determines either of the following: 
 
“(1) The discovery sought is
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source
that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.
(2) The selected method of
discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of
the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake
in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2019.030.) This can be done by moving
for a protective order. 
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)  
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
The declaration of Susan
Vargas states that on January 8, 2024, the parties met and conferred by
telephone but could not reach an agreement. Therefore, it appears the meet and
confer requirement has been met. (Vargas Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
When the accident occurred, Vasquez
was working as a Red Bull Account Sales Manager. The amended deposition notice sought
testimony regarding Vasquez’s commission and incentives offered to him on the
date of the incident, as well as the “monthly key performance indicator volume
target” for April 2021. Defendants argue that the information is irrelevant
because the evidence shows that Vasquez was not speeding. Plaintiff argues this
information is relevant to whether Vasquez was distracted on the day of the
incident due to unreasonable delivery expectations from Red Bull. (Opp., 2.) Plaintiff
sets forth Vasquez’s testimony that he was aware of incentive and bonus
programs, but he did not know about his overtime. (Opp., pp 4-5.) 
 
In reply, Defendants state that two
days prior to filing the opposition, Plaintiff served an amended deposition
notice which renders the motion to quash and stay moot. (Reply, 1.) However,
Defendants argue the new notice requests information on the same topics and ask
the Court to grant a protective order based on discovery requests in the prior
notice.[1]
(Reply, 2.) 
 
Plaintiff’s argument apparently is
not that Vasquez’s compensation structure incentivized speeding, but rather that
it led to Vasquez’s failure to exercise due care in driving more generally. The
Court cannot find that such evidence is not reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence.
 
The Court agrees, however, that
such requests should be narrowly tailored to the purpose for which they are
sought. Specifically, as indicated in Plaintiff’s opposition, the following
demands appear to be discoverable: (1) what commission Vasquez was to earn for
his work on April 30, 2021 and what he did earn for that day from his employer,
(2) the monthly key performance indicator for Vasquez for the month of April
2021, from his employer, and (3) what incentives were offered to Vasquez for
his work on April 30, 2021, from his employer. (Opposition at p. 8.)
 
As narrowed to these topics, the Court
overrules Defendant’s privacy objection.  “The state
Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const.,
art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the provision's central
concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the California Supreme Court]
established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation omitted.]
The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then
balance these competing considerations. [citation omitted].” (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.)  
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery
request seeks information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to
order discovery simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.010 test for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation
omitted.] But they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of
facially private information is sought, the party seeking discovery must
demonstrate a “ ‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling
need” [citation omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation
omitted], they nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at 556.) “To the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private
information to always establish a compelling interest or compelling need,
without regard to the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn., [citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id.
at 557.) 
 
“Only obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal
autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams, supra,
3 Cal.5th at 556.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the
countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information
var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the
seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and
protective measures.” (Id.) “The trial courts in exercising their
discretion should keep in mind that the Legislature has suggested that, where
possible, the court should impose partial limitations rather than outright
denial of discovery.” (Id. at 559 [quotation omitted].) 
 
Here, though Defendants articulate
a privacy interest in confidential financial information, they fail to show a threatened intrusion that is serious, considering that
the Court will limit the discovery to the day of the incident. 
 
Therefore, Defendants’ motion to
quash and stay is denied as moot. Defendants’ motion for a protective order is
denied in part and granted to the extent that Plaintiff seeks discovery beyond
the topics set forth above.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to quash and stay
the Notice of taking the deposition of Red Bull’s PMQ as to topics 25 to 29 is
denied as moot. Defendants’ motion for a protective order is denied in part and
granted in part.
 
Defendants shall give notice and file a proof of service
of such.
 
 
 


