  Case Number:  20STCV00145    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV00145




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
  Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents,
  Set One 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Adan Villareal




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Matthew Morgan



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Adan Villareal (“Defendant”)
moves to compel Plaintiff Matthew Morgan’s (“Plaintiff”) responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
            The motions were originally
scheduled for March 14, 2024 and March 15, 2024. Plaintiff filed untimely
oppositions on March 13, 2024, and the Court continued the hearings to the
present date. (Min. Order 3/14/24.) On March 18, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.

 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Request
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on October 6, 2023, Defendant served Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One on
Plaintiff. (Mermelstein Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) The responses were due November 6,
2023. (Ibid.) As of the date of filing this motion, no responses have
been served. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues he was never served the discovery
requests and notes he has never given express consent for electronic service.
Notice of these motions were also served electronically. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(c), an unrepresented
party may consent to receive electronic service. “Express consent to electronic
service may be given by either of the following:
 
(i) Serving a notice on all parties and filing the notice with the
court.
(ii) Manifesting affirmative consent through electronic means with the
court or the court's electronic filing service provider, and concurrently
providing the party's electronic address with that consent for the purpose of
receiving electronic service. The act of electronic filing shall not be
construed as express consent.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(c)(3).) 
 
Here, the Court notes that Plaintiff has electronically filed his
opposition. However, without any affirmative showing under section 1010.6, it
does not appear that Plaintiff has consented to electronic service. In reply,
though Defendant describes Plaintiff’s repeated practice of communicating
electronically, Defendant does not cite to authority to support that Plaintiff
has given consent. 
 
Nonetheless, given that Plaintiff has opposed the motions and
therefore has received copies of the outstanding discovery, the Court deems
that Plaintiff has received notice of the discovery and responses are due
within 30 days of this date. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.260(a); Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.260(a).)
 
Moving forward, absent any express consent, Plaintiff must be served
either personally or by mail (accounting for extra days if served by mail). 
 
            In light of this ruling, the Court
declines to award monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motions to Compel are granted. Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One are deemed
served on Plaintiff as of the date of this order. Plaintiff shall serve
verified responses within 30 days.
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 