  Case Number:  21GDCV00658    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



HELIX MEDIA LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
NATALIE
   CLARK, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21GDCV00658
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ENTRY OF AN AMENDED ORDER  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   6, 2023




 


 


 



 
Plaintiff Helix Media LLC (“Plaintiff”)
seeks the entry of an amended order awarding attorney’s fees against defendants
Natalie Clark (“Clark”), Freya Holdings LLC (“Freya”), and Robert J. Winkler
(“Winkler”). On May 15, 2023, the Court issued an order granting Plaintiff’s
request for fees relating to opposing Clark and Freya’s anti-SLAPP Motion. The
fees were awarded against Clark, Freya, Winkler, and Gabriel Vadasz.
Subsequently, on August 7, 2023, the Court vacated the fee award against
Gabriel Vadasz on the grounds that he had not been involved in the anti-SLAPP
and did not have notice of the fee motion. Plaintiff contends that an amended
order clarifying the amount of the fee award and the parties against whom the
award is entered is needed because their attempts to enforce the judgment have
been unsuccessful. Plaintiff’s counsel declares that the order could not be
registered as a sister-state judgment in New York and sheriffs in California
counties “have expressed confusion.” (Taran Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) 
Clark, Freya, and Winkler oppose the
motion on the grounds that the Court lacks jurisdiction to modify the order
while an appeal is pending. This argument is unpersuasive because it is based
on an error in the proposed order submitted with Plaintiff’s moving papers, in
which Plaintiff sought fees against Clark, Freya, and Winkler, jointly and
severally, rather than jointly, as originally ordered by the Court. Plaintiff
submitted a revised proposed order with its reply brief which states that
Clark, Freya, and Winkler are jointly responsible for the fee award, which
corrects the issue. By issuing an amended order, the Court is not changing any
of its previous determinations, but clarifying them. 
Clark, Freya, and Winkler also request
the Court consider the possibility of reversal before issuing the amended
order. This is essentially an attempt to re-argue the motion for fees.
Accordingly, the Court disregards this portion of the opposition briefs.  
Plaintiff’s motion for an amended order
is GRANTED. The Court will sign the proposed order submitted on November 28,
2023. 
 
Dated
this 6th
day of December, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 