 Case Number:  24STCV13036    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARY ABASSIAN,  
  
         vs.
 
MOSTAFA SALAH SOBHI.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV13036
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 7, 2024



 
Defendant Mostafa Salah Sobhi’s demurrer
to Plaintiff Mary Abassian’s complaint is sustained as to the 5th and 8th causes
of action with 20 days leave to amend and overruled as to the entire
Complaint and the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action.
 
          Defendant Mostafa Salah Sobhi (“Sobhi”)
(“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Mary Abassian’s (“Abassian”) (“Plaintiff”)
complaint (“Complaint”) on the grounds that pursuant to C.C.P. §430.10(e),
Plaintiff’s 1st through 8th causes of action fail to state sufficient facts to
constitute causes of action.  (Notice of
Demurrer, pg. 1.)  Defendant also demurs
on the basis the causes of action are uncertain.  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 1; C.C.P. §430.10(f).)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the moving party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41, emphasis added.) 
Defendant’s counsel declares that on July 11, 2024, the
parties met and conferred telephonically, and the parties were unable to reach
an agreement.  (See Decl. of Hermes
¶¶2-3.)  Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41. 
Accordingly, the Court will consider Defendant’s demurrer.
The Court also notes, in response to Defendant’s counsel’s
comment in paragraph 2 of his declaration,[1] that the statute
intends for parties to meet and confer in real time in favor of finding an immediate
resolution to disputes outside of court.  Letter writing does not constitute either
meeting or conferring, but merely corresponding.
 
          Background
          Plaintiff filed her operative
Complaint on May 23, 2024, against Defendant alleging eight causes of action:
(1) specific performance or damages based upon breach of contract; (2) constructive
trust based on breach of contract; (3) constructive trust or damages based on
breach of implied in fact contract; (4) declaratory relief; (5) fraud and
deceit; (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (7) negligent
infliction of emotional distress; and (8) partition.
          Defendant filed the instant demurrer
on July 18, 2024.  Plaintiff filed her
opposition on September 24, 2024.  As of
the date of this hearing no reply has been filed.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs to the 5th cause of action as improperly pleaded
and on the basis the facts pleaded are duplicative of the same set of facts in
the three breach of contract causes of action, simultaneously, which is
improper and which suffers the same uncertainty and vagueness based on the
reference and incorporation of the paragraphs in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd causes of
action into the 5th Cause of Action. 
(Demurrer, pg. 2.)
Defendant demurs to the 1st, 2nd and 3rd causes of action on the
basis they include a reference to a contract that has terms not sufficiently
disclosed or identified, except for boilerplate allegations that are not
sufficiently identified in actual real time factual context to support such causes
of action.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(f).)
Defendant demurs to the 8th cause of action on the basis its
allegations are uncertain, unclear, and fail to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action, and the Complaint is not verified.  (Demurrer, pg. 2.)  Additionally, Defendant demurs on the basis
the 8th cause of action fails to comply with the specific pleading requirements
set forth in C.C.P. §872.230.  (Demurrer,
pg. 2.)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Uncertainty
Breach of Contract (1st, 2nd, & 3rd COAs) and Entire Complaint
A cause of action for breach of contract requires the following
elements: (1) existence of contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendants’ breach (or anticipatory breach); and (4) resulting
damage to plaintiff.  (Reichert v.
General Insurance Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830; Hale v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1373, 1387.) 
Although a written contract is usually pleaded by alleging its
making and attaching a copy which is incorporated by reference, a written contract
can also be pleaded by alleging the making and the substance of the relevant
terms. (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance
Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199; Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)  “An oral contract
may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it is rarely possible to
allege the exact words. [Citation.] A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  That
plaintiff could not allege with specificity the exact terms of the contract
does not preclude statement of a cause of action.  (Id.)
The California Supreme Court in Marvin v. Marvin stated that
adults who voluntarily live together “may agree to pool their earnings and to
hold all property acquired during the relationship in accord with the law
governing community property; conversely they may agree that each partner’s
earnings and the property acquired from those earnings remains the separate
property of the earning partner.  So long
as the agreement does not rest upon illicit meretricious consideration, the
parties may order their economic affairs as they choose, and no policy
precludes the courts from enforcing such agreements.”  (Marvin v. Marvin (1976) 18 Cal.3d
660, 674.)
Plaintiff alleges that in or about November 2015, she and
Defendant met and soon thereafter entered into an oral agreement wherein
Defendant agreed that during the time that the parties maintained their
relationship the Defendant would combine his skills, efforts, labor and
earnings and would share equally with Plaintiff any and all property acquired
and accumulated as a result of his skills, efforts, labor and earnings, said
agreement to be performed wherever the parties were situated.  (Complaint ¶6.)  
Plaintiff alleges she and Defendant agreed they would hold
themselves out to the general public as husband and wife, and Plaintiff would
further render services, which included but was not limited to a nurse,
confidante, companion, homemaker, housekeeper, cook, social- companion and
advisor to Defendant.  (Complaint ¶6a.)
Plaintiff alleges it was agreed that Defendant would then and
thereafter provide for all Plaintiff’s financial support and need for the rest
of her life in the same style and manner that was established during the
parties’ relationship consistent with Defendant’s annual earnings and
accumulations, that Defendant would provide finances for the benefit of
Plaintiff, and that Plaintiff and Defendant would be married.  (Complaint ¶7.)  
Plaintiff alleges that pursuant to, in confirmation of, and in
reliance upon the said agreement, Plaintiff and Defendant maintained
relationship from in or about June 1, 2015, through in or about March 2, 2024.  (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges that throughout said
relationship, said agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant was reaffirmed and
ratified by the parties.  (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges she has at all times
performed each and every covenant and condition by her to be performed and
rendered services and contributed her skills, efforts, and labor as required by
the terms of the agreement.  (Complaint
¶9.)
Plaintiff alleges that during the time that Plaintiff and
Defendant maintained this relationship together, Defendant acquired as a result
of his skills, efforts, labor and earnings, personal and real property,
hereinafter referred to as “Equitable Property,” the exact nature and-extent of
which is presently unknown to Plaintiff, Plaintiff will seek leave to amend
this Complaint upon ascertaining the same. 
(Complaint ¶10.)
Plaintiff alleges that on or about March 2, 2024, Defendant
repudiated his agreement with Plaintiff in Sherman Oaks, California, by failing
to perform his part of the Agreement, and ever since Defendant has threatened
and continues to threaten to cease providing further support and maintenance to
Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶¶11, 12.)
Plaintiff alleges the above-referenced services of Plaintiff
performed for Defendant and the contribution of Plaintiff’s skills, efforts,
and labor under and pursuant to said agreement were and are adequate
consideration for the equal ownership interest in said property, earnings and
accumulations, the providing of promised finances by Defendant for Plaintiff,
and the said lifetime support that Defendant agreed to furnish and provide to
Plaintiff thereunder; and said agreement was and is just fair, reasonable and
equitable in all respects.  (Complaint
¶13.)
Plaintiff alleges that as a result thereof all of said Equitable
Property is either in Defendant’s possession, held in his name, and under his
control.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges she has demanded that
Defendant recognize Plaintiff’s said interest in the Property, earnings and
accumulations referred to herein above; however, Defendant has refused to do so
contrary to the terms and provisions of said agreement.  (Complaint ¶14.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant has received and will continue to
receive during the pendency of this action, rents, issues, royalties and
profits from said property in an amount of which Plaintiff is uncertain and
cannot ascertain without an accounting from Defendant, an undivided 50% of
which belongs solely and exclusively to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶15.)
Plaintiff alleges the aforesaid Equitable Property standing in
Defendant’s name, but acquired by Plaintiff pursuant to the aforesaid
agreement, is unique in character in that there exists no other real or other
properties substantially similar thereto; and as a result of Defendant’s breach
of the aforesaid agreement, Plaintiff has no plain, speedy or adequate remedy
in the ordinary course of law, and damages equal to one-half the fair market
value of all property, earnings and accumulations of Plaintiff and Defendant
will be inadequate to compensate Plaintiff for the detriment suffered by him.  (Complaint ¶17.)
Plaintiff sufficiently states a cause of action for breach of
contract in her 1st cause of action that is duplicated in the 2nd and 3rd
causes of action to seek alternative remedies. 
A demurrer is not the proper procedure to address these defects in
Plaintiff’s Complaint; substantive defects in a portion of the complaint can be
challenged by a motion to strike.  (Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1167, disapproved
on other grounds by Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 C5th 905, 948.)
A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]”  (Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at pg.
616.)  That Plaintiff could not allege
with specificity the exact terms of the contract does not preclude statement of
a cause of action.  (Id.)
Here, Plaintiff’s allegations are not so uncertain that Defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he cannot reasonably determine what issues must
be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him.  (Id.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes
of action on the basis of uncertainty is overruled.
 
Failure to State a Claim
Fraud (5th COA)
A cause of action for fraud requires the following elements: (1) a
misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to
defraud (induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)
Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity
in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather
than with general and conclusory allegations.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
Plaintiff alleges that in or about November 2015, she and
Defendant met and soon thereafter entered into an oral agreement wherein
Defendant agreed that during the time that the parties maintained their
relationship the Defendant would combine his skills, efforts, labor and
earnings and would share equally with Plaintiff any and all property acquired
and accumulated as a result of his skills, efforts, labor and earnings, said
agreement to be performed wherever the parties were situated.  (Complaint ¶6.)  
Plaintiff alleges at the times Defendant made the promises, as
well as the time that Defendant reaffirmed and ratified said promises to
Plaintiff as alleged above, he expressly and impliedly represented to her that
there existed in his then present state of mind an intention to keep the said
promises.  (Complaint ¶42.)
Plaintiff alleges the said representations were false, and each
time Defendant made them, he knew they were false.  (Complaint ¶43.)
Plaintiff alleges that at the times Defendant made the promises,
as well as the time said representations, and at the times of the reliance by
Plaintiff, as herein alleged Plaintiff believed that the said representations
were true.  (Complaint ¶44.)
Plaintiff alleges that at all times herein mentioned, Defendant
intended to defraud and deceive Plaintiff by causing her to act to her
detriment in reliance upon her said belief in the truth of Defendant's said
representations.  (Complaint ¶45.)  Plaintiff alleges that in reasonable reliance
upon her belief in the truth of Defendant’s said representations, she acted as
follows: (a) she allowed Defendant to hold her out and she also held herself
out as his wife, and she traveled with Defendant as his wife; (b) she acted as
Defendant’s homemaker, companion and confidante during those years, and
entertained their friends, family and business associates, and provided him
with emotional support; (c) she devoted all aspects of her life to Defendant’s
need, interest, and well-being to the exclusion of her own making herself
available to Defendant seven days a week, 24 hours a day; and (d) she assisted
Defendant in various business decisions and acted as his personal and business
advisor.  (Complaint ¶46.)
Plaintiff alleges were it not for her said trust and confidence in
Defendant as a fiduciary, and her said reliance upon, and belief in the truth
of his said representations, Plaintiff would not have acted as hereinabove
alleged.  (Complaint ¶47.)
Plaintiff alleges she has suffered damages measured by the dollar
amount of the loss of the benefit of her bargain: the properties and financial support
she would have received from Defendant if he had kept his said promise.
(Complaint ¶48.)
Plaintiff fails to allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the alleged fraudulent representations were made.  (Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at pg. 645.)  Plaintiff fails to allege with specificity
Defendant’s fraudulent intent.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Partition (8th COA)
A cause of action for partition requires: (1) a property
description; (2) plaintiff’s property interests; (3) other persons’ claimed
interests in the property that plaintiff reasonably believes the action will
materially affect; (4) the estate for partitioning and a prayer for
partitioning those interests; and (5) facts justifying any sought sale of the
property.  (C.C.P. §872.230.)
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff and Defendant are each holding an
undivided one-half interest as tenants in common in the above-described
property.  (Complaint ¶63.)
Plaintiff alleges this action is brought and partition is being
sought herein for the common benefit of the parties, to preserve and secure to
each of them his or her respective interests and rights in the property, and
Plaintiff has received and will incur, costs of partition herein, including
reasonable attorneys’ fees, for the common benefit of the parties hereto in an
amount not yet ascertainable.  (Complaint
¶64.)
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s 8th cause of action on the basis
it is unverified.  Defendant does not
cite legal authority in support of this proposition. Further, a demurrer is not
the proper procedure to address these defects in Plaintiff’s Complaint; substantive
defects in a portion of the complaint can be challenged by a motion to strike.  (Daniels, 246 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1167.)[2]
Nonetheless, Plaintiff fails to allege a property description.  (C.C.P. §872.230.)  Plaintiff alleges the street address of the
property in her Prayer.  However,
Plaintiff must allege the description shall include both the legal description of
the Property and its street address or common designation, if any.  (C.C.P. §872.230(a).)  
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 8th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th and 8th causes of action
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend, and overruled as to the entire
Complaint and 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  