  Case Number:  23VECV02497    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  W GEORGE
CHARLES SUGAR VS CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.
 
cross-defendant
david soto vargas’ motion for determination of good faith settlement
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 15, 2024                              Trial Date:       June 30, 2025  
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV02497
 
Moving
Party:            Cross-Defendant David
Soto Vargas 
Responding
Party:     No opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a motor vehicle collision. On June
7, 2023, Plaintiff Geroge Charles Sugar filed a complaint against Defendants
City of Los Angeles and Erick Jovel for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence. 
 
On December 7, 2023, City of Los Angeles filed a
cross-complaint against David Soto Vargas for indemnification and apportionment
of fault. On January 12, 2024, Erick Jovel also filed a cross-complaint against
David Soto Vargas for indemnification and apportionment of fault. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant David Soto
Vargas’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Cross-Defendant
David Soto Vargas moves the court for a determination that his settlement with
Plaintiff George Charles Sugar constitutes a good faith settlement pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 877 and 877.6 and dismissing the
cross-complaints filed by City of Los Angeles and Erick Jovel against David
Soto Vargas on December 14, 2023 and January 12, 2024, respectively. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6(a)(1)
provides that a “party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more
parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors…” Under subdivision (a)(2), a settling party may give notice of
settlement to the parties and court, together with an application for
determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application
“shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the
settlement” and must include a proof of service. (CCP §877.6(a)(2).)
 
In determining the good faith of a settlement,
the court may consider the affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and
any counter-affidavits filed in response, or other evidence in the court’s
discretion. (CCP §877.6(b).) The California Supreme Court, in Tech-Bilt Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, provided factors
to be considered in determining the good faith of a particular settlement. The
court explained that the policies and intent underlying section 877.6 “require
that a number of factors be taken into account,” such as: a rough approximation
of a plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; the
amount paid in settlement; the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs; a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he
would if he were found liable after a trial. (Tech-Bilt at p. 499.)
Other relevant factors include financial conditions and insurance policy limits
of settling defendants, and the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interests of non-settling defendants. (Id.).
This evaluation must be made “on the basis of information available at the time
of settlement.” (Id.) The court further explained that settlement by a
defendant “must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at
the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability
to be.” (Id., citations omitted.) 
 
If a motion is unopposed, a “barebones motion
which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which
sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
 
Cross-Defendant Soto Vargas has set forth the
grounds of good faith as well as provided a brief background of the case. On
June 17, 2021, Mr. Vargas was traveling northbound behind Plaintiff Sugar when
Mr. Jovel, driving a police vehicle in front of Plaintiff Sugar, suddenly
stopped to make a U-turn. (Miller Decl., Exh. A.) Plaintiff Sugar rear ended
the police vehicle and Mr. Soto Vargas rear ended Plaintiff Sugar. (Miller
Decl., Exh. A.) Plaintiff Sugar filed the instantly law suit for bodily injury
as a result of the accident. Based on Mr. Sugar’s form interrogatory responses,
Plaintiff incurred $44,745 in medical expenses and Mr. Sugar is making a loss
of earnings claim in the amount of $9,730.80. (Miller Decl. Exh. B.) Mr. Vargas
has an insurance policy limit of $15,000 each person/$30,000 each accident. (Soto
Vargas Decl.) On March 17, 2023, Plaintiff accepted Mr. Soto Vargas’ fully
policy limits of $15,000 to settle his claim against Cross-Defendant Soto
Vargas. (Sotor Vargas Decl. Exh. C.) Cross-Defendant Vargas contends the
settlement reached well within the "ballpark" and satisfies the
"reasonable range" standard as he has an insurance policy limit of
$15,000 each person/$30,000 each accident. 
 
Cross-Defendant also argues all claims for
indemnity and contribution arising out of Plaintiff Sugar’s claim should be
barred because David Soto Vargas’ settlement with Plaintiff Sugar was made in
good faith. Consequently, no basis exists for the pending cross-complaint by City
Of Los Angeles and Erick Jovel filed on December 14, 2023 and January 12, 2024,
respectively. 
 
No party has opposed the instant motion. As a
result, Cross-Defendant David Soto Vargas herein does not have the burden to produce such
evidence in support of a good faith determination. The court notes, however, Cross-Defendant
David Soto Vargas’ motion satisfies the Tech-Bilt factors. Based on the record
presented and the lack of any objection, the court GRANTS the application, finding
this settlement was made in good faith. All claims against Cross-Defendant
David Soto Vargas for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault, are barred
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6(c). 
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant David Soto Vargas’ Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 