  Case Number:  23TRCV01448    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Wednesday, October 16, 2024
Department M                                                                                                          Calendar No. 8 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Gerard Collette, et al. v. Olary Yim Ambrosi, et al.  
            23TRCV01448
1.      Olary
Yim Ambrosi, Lawrence P. Ambrosi, Viriyane Norodom Richardson, Individually,
and as Trustee of the Viriyane Norodom Richardson Trust’s Motion to Set Aside
Default 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Olary
Yim Ambrosi, Lawrence P. Ambrosi, Viriyane Norodom
Richardson, Individually, and as Trustee of the Viriyane Norodom Richardson
Trust’s Motion to Set Aside Default is granted. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on May 5, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
owned and operated Hermosa Ink, a popular tattoo and piercing studio based at
802 Hermosa Avenue in Hermosa Beach. Defendants are his landlords and owners of
the property. Defendants stole Plaintiff’s business.
 
            Request
for Judicial Notice  
 
            Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
            Objections
 
            Defendants’
objections filed on July 8, 2024:
            Declaration
of Gerard Collette - Objections 1 to 19 – No ruling is made as to these
objections as the objections are not material or relevant to the issues
presented by this motion.
 
            Declaration
Steven A. Heath –
            Objections
1 to 14 are overruled. Objections 15 to 16 are sustained. Objection 17 is
overruled.
            Defendants
then proceeded to name other objections as also objections to 14 to 17. The
Court’s ruling below proceeds beginning with those objections.
            Objections
14 to 18 are overruled. Objection 19 is sustained. Objections 20 to 28 are
overruled.
 
            Declaration
of Eddie Amago –
            Objections
1 to 6 are sustained.
 
            Defendants’
objections filed on October 9, 2024:
            Objections
1 to 7 are overruled.
 
            
            Motion
to Set Aside Default
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            CCP §
473.5(a) states, in relevant part: “When service of a summons has not resulted
in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or
default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she
may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action. 
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time,
but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a
default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or
her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.”

 
            CCP §
473.5(b) states: “A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment
and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for making the
motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be
accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice
a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the
action.” The phrase “actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party
litigant” and does not include constructive or imputed notice to the client. Tunis
v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077.
 
            “After
six months from entry of default, a trial court may still vacate a default on
equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.  . . . One ground for equitable relief is
extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances extrinsic to the
litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits. Extrinsic
mistake is found when [among other things] ... a mistake led a court to do what
it never intended[.] When a default judgment has been
obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Defendants
move for an order setting aside the defaults entered against Defendants on
January 12, 2024, on the grounds that the defaults were entered because of
excusable neglect, fraud, and/or mistake. CCP § 473(b). Defendants Lawrence P.
Ambrosi and Viriyane Norodom Richardson, Individually, and as Trustee of the
Viriyane Norodom Richardson Trust move, alternatively, on the grounds that the
defaults were entered against them despite their lack of actual knowledge of
the lawsuit and that this lack of knowledge was not caused by their active
avoid or inexcusable neglect. CCP § 473.5.
 
            In
the Court’s prior minute order of May 22, 2024, in which this Court denied
without prejudice Defendants’ initial motion to set aside the default, the
Court stated as follows, in relevant part:
 
             “Defendants state that on or about September
5, 2023, Defendants retained Joseph Hobaica as an attorney purportedly licensed
in California and New York. Defendants contend that they relied on Hobaica to
represent them, but that Hobaica failed to protect Defendants’ interests, did
not file the necessary documents, and continually misrepresented the status of
the action to Defendants. Defendants state that they later found out that, in
fact, Hobaica was a disbarred attorney and had done virtually nothing on their
case. Defendants state that they were deceived by Hobaica. Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff Beautiful Ink lacks capacity to sue because it has failed
to pay taxes to the California Franchise Tax Board.
 
            The
Court notes the following case authority which was in the context of reviewing
whether to set aside a dismissal rather than a default. “As a general rule,
however, the negligence of an attorney is imputed to the client. [¶]
California courts recognize an exception to this rule in those cases where the
attorney's neglect is of that extreme degree amounting to positive misconduct,
and the person seeking relief is relatively free from negligence. This
exception is premised on the concept such extreme misconduct obliterates the
existence of the attorney-client relationship and for this reason the client
has no attorney from whom negligence can be imputed. . . . Imputation of the
attorney's neglect to the client ceases at the point where abandonment of the client
appears. [¶] What constitutes “abandonment” of the client depends on the facts
in the particular action. Even where abandonment is shown, however, the courts
also consider equitable factors in deciding whether the dismissal of an action
should be set aside. These factors include the client's own conduct in pursuing
and following up the case, whether the defendant would be prejudiced by
allowing the case to proceed and whether the dismissal was discretionary
or mandatory. The courts must also balance the public policy favoring a trial
on the merits against the public policies favoring finality of judgments and
disfavoring unreasonable delays in litigation and the policy an innocent
client should not have to suffer from its attorney's gross negligence against
the policy a grossly incompetent attorney should not be relieved from the
consequences of his or her incompetence.” Seacall Development, Ltd. v. Santa
Monica Rent Control Bd. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 201, 204–205 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Here,
under the facts presented by Defendants, it does appear that former attorney
Hobaica’s actions may constitute the type of conduct that would constitute
abandonment of the client as noted above. However, the Court requires more
information regarding the conduct of Defendants relative to their own diligence
including their “own conduct in pursuing and following up the case.” Id.
 
            First,
the Court notes that Defendants were all served by substitute service wherein
service was completed by mailing which occurred on May 31, 2023. While Yim
states that the Complaint was not discovered until August 2023 due to her
travels, the Court notes that the defaults had originally been entered in July
2023. These defaults were only vacated due to a typographical error regarding
the address on the entry of default form. No defects in the proofs of service
were identified by the Court. Defendants have not fully explained why they did
not obtain notice of the service of the summons and complaint until August
2023. The Court notes that substitute service indicates that a “Jane Doe” took
receipt of the documents on May 31, 2023. Defendants have not explained why
they did not receive notice of the service through this method. Further, even
assuming the August 2023 date as the first date of notice, Defendants fail to
explain the apparent month delay before retaining counsel in September.
 
            Second,
as noted above, the defaults that were entered in July 2023 were vacated by the
Court and the defaults were reentered in January 2024. As noted above,
Defendants’ declarations attempt to provide facts that they had been relying
upon Hobaica to represent them which would presumably involve filing responsive
pleadings to avoid the defaults being reentered in January 2024. Text messages
to and from Defendant Yim appear to raise frustrations regarding Hobaica as
early as late September 2023 and increasingly serious suspicions regarding
Hobaica’s handling of this action as early as November 2023. (Decl., Yim, Ex. 2.)
 Ultimately, Yim herself states that “[m]y
suspicion that Hobaica had been lying and had done nothing on this action arose
when I received the Request for Entry of Defaults on or about January 19, 2024[.]”
(Decl., Yim, ¶ 13.) Defendants provide no reasonable explanation for the delay
in filing this motion from at least January 19, 2024 (and perhaps earlier as
noted above) to the date that the motion was eventually filed on April 5, 2024.
“We have not found any case where relief from default judgment has been deemed
proper where there was an extended period of delay and little or no
explanation.” Stafford v. Mach (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1184
(reviewing authorities in which a three-month unexplained delay was sufficient
grounds to deny the motion).” (Court’s Minute Order, dated May 22, 2024.)
 
            Defendants
have now filed another motion to set aside the default attempting to address
the issues reflected above. The Court reiterates that the facts sufficiently
demonstrate abandonment on the part of former counsel Joseph Hobaica. Therefore,
the instant motion will focus on the discretionary factors noted above most
specifically Defendants’ own conduct in pursuing and following up the case and
any resulting prejudice to Plaintiffs.
 
            The
Court remains somewhat troubled by Ms. Yim’s conduct from May 2023 to August
2023. It does appear that Defendant Yim was made aware of the service of the
lawsuit on May 31, 2023 from both Jessica Lee and Ashlee Alfred. Ms. Yim
attempts to dismiss this notice by stating that she believed that this was
simply an intimidation tactic from Plaintiffs. However, a photo sent to her by Alfred
as well text message communications from both Lee and Alfred would indicate a
strong presumption that a summons and complaint had been served on May 31,
2023. Had the original defaults of July 2023 remained in place, it may not have
been likely that this Court would have provided relief to Defendants. However,
due to Plaintiffs’ own clerical error, the defaults entered in July 2023 were
vacated and essentially are now a nullity. Officially, the entries of default
occurred on January 12, 2024. Defendant Yim first contacted Hobaica on
September 4, 2024. This would have provided Hobaica plenty of time to file a responsive
pleading prior to the defaults being re-entered on January 12, 2024. While,
again, it is true that Defendant’s conduct in essentially ignoring the summons
from May 2023 to August 2023 would potentially constitute inexcusable neglect,
it turned out that this conduct alone was not what caused the entry of default
because a responsive pleading could still have been filed prior to January 12,
2024. The responsive pleading was not filed because of the abandonment of Hobaica
from the time he was contacted by Yim in August 2023 to the time that the
defaults were entered on January 12, 2024. As noted above, the Court must weigh
heavily the interests of both parties and must especially consider the general
policy of hearing cases on the merits. In this situation, while Ms. Yim is certainly
not entirely free from blame, despite her potential neglectfulness, there was
still an opportunity to file a timely pleading which would have avoided the
defaults because the defaults were vacated and had to be re-entered. Mr.
Hobacia had plenty of time to correct this mistake and simply neglected to do
so.
 
            The
Court notes that Plaintiffs also vigorously dispute that Ms. Yim was out of the
country during this time period. However, again Ms. Yim has adequately
demonstrated her travels in and out of the country during this period and why
she may not have opened the mail until late August 2023.
 
            As to
the purported delay from January to April 2024, Defendants have provided an
adequate explanation. It appears that Ms. Yim was “strung along” for about
another month from January to February. (Decl., Yim, ¶¶ 9-13.) While in
hindsight, it appears that Ms. Yim should have acted quicker to dismiss
Hobaica, the Court, again, in light of the policy of hearing cases on the
merits, cannot deem that this action by Yim of believing Hobaica and “giving
him the benefit of the doubt,” outweighs the active abandonment demonstrated by
Mr. Hobaica. From February to April, Ms. Yim has demonstrated her attempts to
retain counsel, and attorney Mr. Wu has also demonstrated his work on pursuing
the matter from February to April. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-16; Decl. Daniel Wu, ¶¶ 17-18.)
 
            Finally,
as to any purported prejudice demonstrated toward Plaintiffs, of course, there
will be greater time, expense, effort, and risk in litigating and proving a
case on the merits, and, of course, there has been a time delay from the time
that the defaults were entered to now. However, the Court cannot deem these
inconveniences directed to Plaintiffs as outweighing the policy of hearing and
adjudicating cases on the merits.
 
            Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside the Defaults is granted.
 
            The
Court orders Defendants to file and serve their proposed responsive pleading(s)
within 3 days of this date.
 
             Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.
 