 Case Number:  BC626405    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
ANTRANIK
  kevorkian,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
lisa hastings, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  BC626405
 
  Hearing Date:  June 7, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion under ccp § 391.8
  for order to vacate pre-filing order and remove plaintiff from judicial
  council vexatious litigant list issued under ccp § 391.7(a) from judge
  “kralik”  



 
Background 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Antranik Kevorkian
(“Plaintiffs”) alleges that while he was trying to serve Defendant Lisa
Hastings (“Defendant”) with court papers, she ran from her driveway and charged
in Plaintiff’s direction angrily, yelling and with pepper spray in hand.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
September 28, 2016, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Penal Code,
§240 (assault); (2) violation of Penal Code, §242 (battery); (3) intentional
infliction of physical and emotional pain and mental distress; and (4) extreme
and outrageous conduct. 
 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
under CCP § 391.8 for an order vacating the prefiling order and removing
Plaintiff from the vexatious litigant list issued pursuant to CCP § 391.7(a) in
this action.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief.  
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP §
391.8 states: 
(a) A vexatious litigant subject to a prefiling order
under Section 391.7 may file an application to vacate the prefiling order and
remove his or her name from the Judicial Council's list of vexatious litigants
subject to prefiling orders. The application shall be filed in the court that
entered the prefiling order, either in the action in which the prefiling order
was entered or in conjunction with a request to the presiding justice or
presiding judge to file new litigation under Section 391.7. The application
shall be made before the justice or judge who entered the order, if that justice
or judge is available. If that justice or judge who entered the order is not
available, the application shall be made before the presiding justice or
presiding judge, or his or her designee.
(b) A vexatious litigant whose application under
subdivision (a) was denied shall not be permitted to file another application
on or before 12 months has elapsed after the date of the denial of the previous
application.
(c) A court may vacate a prefiling order and order
removal of a vexatious litigant's name from the Judicial Council's list of
vexatious litigants subject to prefiling orders upon a showing of a material
change in the facts upon which the order was granted and that the ends of
justice would be served by vacating the order.
(CCP § 391.8.)  
            Erasure of the vexatious litigant
designation “requires substantial evidence
that the vexatious litigant has mended ‘his ways or conduct.’”  (Luckett v. Panos (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 77, 83.)  Some factors that
bear on whether a vexatious litigant has “mended his ways” include: 
First, it goes without saying
the applicant must show a propensity for honesty in his or her
application. That means an accurate confrontation with the
facts on which the prior vexatious litigant finding was made, as well as
intervening facts that might not put the application in a favorable light.
…
Second, the applicant should
show some genuine remorse for the costs of litigation
inflicted on the defendants who were the object of previous lawsuits.
…
Third, in the same vein
as section 68511.3, subdivision (d)(1)'s requirement that
in forma pauperis litigants notify the court within five days of
any changed financial circumstances allowing them to pay part or all of
their filing fees, an applicant to erase vexatious litigant status should,
consistent with his or her financial situation, show some genuine effort
at restitution toward the previous victims of his litigation,
including actual payment of cost orders made by the courts in that litigation.
…
Fourth, the applicant must
actually give up the habit of suing people as a way of life. It is not
some success in litigation, even after a person is adjudged to
be a vexatious litigant, that shows a change of circumstances. Just the
opposite is the case. Even some interim procedural success may simply encourage
the habit of litigation as a way of spending one's free time. 
(Luckett,
supra, 161
Cal.App.4th at 93-94.)
DISCUSSION
A.   
Prefiling Order and Relevant Background in This Action
On February 11,
2019, in this action, Case No. BC626405 Antranik Kevorkian v. Lisa Hastings
(“Hastings Action”), the Court granted in part and denied in part defendant
Lisa Hastings’ motion to declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant.  The Court found that Ms. Hastings had
established that Plaintiff was a “vexatious litigant” within the meaning of CCP
§ 391 and thereby the Court entered a prefiling order pursuant to CCP § 391.7,
prohibiting Plaintiff from filing any new litigation in the courts of this
state in propia persona without first obtaining leave of the presiding justice
or presiding judge of the court where litigation was proposed to be filed.  The Court denied without prejudice the relief
requested under sections 391.1 and 391.3 (i.e., requiring Plaintiff to furnish
security prior to filing new litigation and not allowing him to proceed in
forma pauperis).  That same day, the
Court entered a Prefiling Order – Vexatious Litigant (Form VL-100) against
Plaintiff.  
On March 22, 2019, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration (CCP § 1008(a)) of the February 11, 2019
ruling declaring him a vexatious litigant. 

On April 8, 2019, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s “Order on Application to Vacate Prefiling Order and Remove Plaintiff/Petitioner
from Judicial Council Vexatious Litigant List” (Form VL-125).  
On June 14, 2019, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the orders entered on February 11, 2019, March
22, 2019, and April 8, 2019.  
Plaintiff appealed.  On April 22, 2020, the Court of Appeal issued
a Remittitur, attaching a decision dated January 23, 2020.  The Court of Appeal affirmed this Court’s
June 14, 2019 order denying Plaintiff’s CCP § 473(d) motion to set aside the
prefiling order.[1]
On October 8, 2021, Plaintiff filed a
motion under CCP § 391.8 for an order vacating the prefiling order and removing
Plaintiff from the vexatious litigant list issued pursuant to CCP § 391.7(a) in
this action.  On December 3, 2021, the
Court denied the motion to vacate.  
Plaintiff appealed this Court’s December
3, 2021 order.  On September 15, 2022,
the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur, which attached the Court of Appeal’s
May 19, 2022 order.  The Court of Appeal
found that because Plaintiff was subject to a prefiling order, he was required
to obtain leave of the administrative presiding justice of the court before
filing his notice of appeal, which he failed to do.  The Court of Appeal further stated that it
sent notice to Plaintiff to demonstrate that his appeal has merit and was not
taken for purposes of harassment or delay pursuant to CCP § 391.7(b)-(c).  The Court of Appeal declined to issue a prefiling order allowing the appeal to
proceed and thus dismissed the appeal.  
On March
10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order vacating the prefiling order
and removing from the vexatious litigant list. 
On April 14, 2023, the Court denied the motion. 
On March
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order vacating the prefiling order
and removing from the vexatious litigant list. 
On April 19, 2024, the Court denied the motion as it was not filed a
year from the date of the denial of the prior petition.  (CCP § 391.8(b).)   
B.     Timeliness
This Court entered its last substantive order on
Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the prefiling order on April 14, 2023.  Plaintiff filed this instant motion on May 9,
2024.  As such, the motion was brought
after 12 months has elapsed from the denial of the last petition.   (CCP § 391.8(b).) 
  
C.     Discussion of Merits
Plaintiff
argues that the prefiling order should be vacated to ensure that the ends of
justice would be served and that there has been a material change in the facts because
he is no longer a vexatious litigant. 
Plaintiff relies on PBA, LLC v. KPOD, Ltd. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th
965.  In that case, the Court of Appeal
stated: “[A]lthough
we believe a prefiling order entered pursuant to section 391.7 may be
reversible under section 533 as a form of injunction, Kennedy did not make the
showing necessary for such a reversal. Kennedy failed to establish under
section 533 either (a) ‘the ends of justice would be served’ by the dissolution
of the pre-filing order or (b) there was a ‘material change in the facts’ upon
which the order was entered.”  (PBA,
supra, 112 Cal.App.4th at 986.)[2]  
Plaintiff
argues that he had not filed 5 litigations in the past 7 years when this Court
entered the order on February 11, 2019 or even in the past 20 years.  He argues that the decision declaring him a
vexatious litigant violates the spirit of the law, his due process rights, and his
constitutional, First Amendment rights.  
Plaintiff’s
memorandum of points and authorities reiterates the reasons why the underlying
motion to declare him a vexatious litigant was unmeritorious in the first
place.  He argues that Lisa Ann Hastings
and counsel Guy E. Jamison acted dishonestly and corruptly, which led the Court
to enter an erroneous decision.  The
Court has addressed this argument multiple times.  To the extent Plaintiff’s motion is
essentially a motion for reconsideration of the Court’s orders on the motion to
declare him a vexatious litigant and/or the motion to vacate the prefiling
order, Plaintiff has not provided any new or different facts, circumstances, or
law that would warrant the Court’s reconsideration of its prior orders.  Further, personal attacks on the character of
other litigants and their attorneys do not and will not satisfy the standard
for vacating a prefiling order.  Plaintiff’s
re-assertion of matters that have been finally ruled on multiple times is, of
course, the hallmark of a vexatious litigant who “repeatedly relitigates or
attempts to relitigate” matters that have been finally determined.  (See CCP § 391(b)(2).)
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has not established his burden in showing that the ends of
justice would be served by dissolving the prefiling order or that there was a
material change in the facts upon which the order was entered.  Plaintiff has not presented the Court with any
material change in the facts upon which the prefiling order was based nor has
he presented any new facts to support vacating the vexatious litigant
determination.  Further, he has not shown
how the ends of justice would be served by reversing the prefiling order.  Plaintiff, at most, only argues that he has
not filed any cases since the Court entered the vexatious litigant order
against him on February 11, 2019, nor has he filed more than 5 lawsuits in the
past 7 years.  
In
addition, Plaintiff has not shown with substantial evidence that he has mended
his ways or conduct, as stated in the Luckett case.  This is a high standard and showing.  Here, Plaintiff has not shown that he has
genuine remorse for the costs of litigation inflicted on the defendants in
prior cases or even this action, he has not stated any attempts at restitution
towards previous victims of his litigation, and he has not shown that he has
given up the habit of suing people as a way of life.  Further language in his motion papers continue
to his habitual personal attacks on other litigants, counsel, and even this
Court, and fail to show a remorseful posture. 

Although
Plaintiff argues that he has not filed any lawsuit since February 11, 2019, the
Court notes that Plaintiff appealed the Court’s December 3, 2021 order denying
Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the prefiling order, which the Court of Appeal
denied for Plaintiff’s failure to obtain leave of the administrative presiding
judge and comply with the prefiling order prior to filing his appeal.  Most recently, Plaintiff filed a small claims
lawsuit in Case No. 24PDSC01036 in Antranik Kevorkian v. Monte Credo Inc.
on April 19, 2024.  Although lawsuits
filed in small claims courts are not considered under CCP § 391(b)’s factors to
determine if an individual is a vexatious litigant, this small claims action
still amounts to a “litigation” where Plaintiff is required to seek the
permission of the presiding judge to file his lawsuit.  (See CCP § 391(a).)[3]  On March 15, 2024, Judge Michelle Williams
Court of Department 1 granted Plaintiff’s request to file the proposed small
claims complaint.  Plaintiff’s failure to
mention these litigations in his application here fails to show a propensity
for honesty in this application as he did not disclose these prior
litigations.  The litigations are also
indicative of his continued habit of filing lawsuits.
Plaintiff
also argues that he has been deprived of his constitutional rights.  However, Plaintiff still has the ability to
file lawsuits, provided that he has an attorney or, if he is in propia
persona, he first seeks approval of the presiding judge of the court in
which the action is filed.  As indicated
above, Plaintiff recently filed a small claims action against Monte Credo Inc.
by complying with the prefiling order. 
Thus, Plaintiff’s constitutional rights have not been violated. 
For the
reasons stated above, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion and application to
vacate the prefiling order.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to vacate the prefiling order and remove him from the vexatious litigant
list is denied. 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED:  June 7, 2024                                                           ___________________________
John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court 


