 Case Number:  23BBCP00280    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
janakkumar
  dineshchandra patel,
                        Petitioner,
            v.
 
oceans
  v, llc,
                        Respondent.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCP00280
 
  Hearing Date:  June 7, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
petition for writ of mandate to compel
  inspection and copying of corporate records



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Petition Allegations 
On December 26, 2023, Petitioner Janakkumar
Dineshchandra Patel (“Petitioner”) filed the Petition for Writ of Mandate to
compel inspection and copying of corporate documents under CCP § 1085 and Corporations
Code, § 17704.10 against Respondent Oceans V, LLC (“Respondent”).  Petitioner alleges that he is the owner and
holder of record of one Class A Membership Unit as defined in the Operating
Agreement for Oceans V, LLC dated June 21, 20216 of Respondent as a result of
having invested $500,000 and paid an administrative fee of $30,000 pursuant to
the terms of a Subscription Agreement executed on November 29, 2016.  Petitioner alleges that he invested in
Respondent in part of his effort to obtain lawful permanent residence in the
United States (i.e., obtain a green card) under the Employment Based Fifth
Preference Immigrant Investor Program (the “EB-5 Program”).  Petitioner alleges that United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services (“USCIS”) received his Form I-526
Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur on March 28, 2017, which USCIS denied;
USCIS then denied Petitioner’s appeal.  
Petitioner alleges that pursuant to the
terms of the Subscription Agreement, he is entitled to the return of his
investment in Respondent and he is worried that Respondent is unable or
unwilling to repay him for the investment. 
He seeks a preemptory writ of mandate to enforce his rights and inspect
Respondent’s books and records.  He
alleges that Respondent has ignored his request for inspection in violation of
his statutory and contractual inspection rights. 
B.    
Relevant Background and Hearing on Calendar 
On February 9, 2024, the petition was
initially set for hearing.  The Court set
a briefing schedule, ordering Petitioner to file an opening brief no later than
March 8, 2024.  Respondent was ordered to
file an opposition no later than April 5, 2024. 
Petitioner was ordered to file a reply no later than April 15,
2024.  The Court ordered courtesy copies
of all papers to be lodged directly with the Court.  The Court continued the petition hearing to
April 26, 2024. 
At the April 26, 2024 hearing, the Court
noted that no documents had been filed by the parties.  The Court continued the hearing to June 7,
2024 and set the following briefing schedule: Petitioner’s opening brief was to
be filed by May 15, 2024; Respondent’s opposition brief was to be filed by May
24, 2024; and Petitioner’s reply brief was to be filed by May 31, 2024.  
On May 15, 2024, Petitioner filed his
opening brief. 
On May 24, 2024, Respondent filed its
opposition brief. 
On May 31, 2024, Petitioner filed his
reply brief.
LEGAL
STANDARD
            CCP § 1085(a) states:
(a) A writ of
mandate may be issued by any court to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law specially
enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station, or to compel
the admission of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or office to which
the party is entitled, and from which the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or
person.
(CCP § 1085(a).) “A shareholder
has recourse to the courts if a corporation does not comply with a lawful
demand for inspection of corporate records.” (Singhania v. Uttarwar (2006)
136 Cal.App.4th 416, 431 [citing Corp. Code § 1603 and CCP § 1085].)
Traditional mandamus is sought to enforce
a nondiscretionary duty to act on the part of a court, an administrative
agency, or officers of a corporate or administrative agency. (CCP § 1085.)
“There are essentially two prerequisites to issuance of a writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: ‘(1) the respondent has a clear,
present, and usually ministerial duty to act, and (2) the petitioner has a
clear, present, and beneficial right to performance of that duty.’” (Monterey
Mechanical Co. v. Sacramento Regional County Sanitation Dist. (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 1391, 1413–1414.)
            Corporations
Code, § 17704.10 states:
(a) Upon the
request of a member or transferee, for
purposes reasonably related to the interest of that person as a member or a transferee, a manager or, if the limited
liability company is member-managed, a member in possession of the requested
information, shall promptly deliver, in writing, to the member or transferee, at the expense of the limited
liability company, a copy of the information required to be maintained by
paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 17701.13, and any
written operating agreement of the limited liability company.
(b) Each member, manager, and transferee
has the right, upon reasonable request, for purposes reasonably related to the
interest of that person as a member, manager, or transferee, to each of the following:
(1) To inspect and
copy during normal business hours any of the records required to be maintained
pursuant to Section 17701.13.
(2) To obtain in
writing from the limited liability company, promptly after becoming available,
a copy of the limited liability company's federal, state, and local income tax
returns for each year.
…
(g) In any action
under this section or under Section 17713.07, if the court finds the failure of
the limited liability company to comply with the requirements of this section
is without justification, the court may award an amount sufficient to reimburse
the person bringing the action for the reasonable expenses incurred by that
person, including attorney's fees, in connection with the action or proceeding.
(Corp. Code, § 17704.10(a), (b), (g).)
            Corporations Code, § 17701.13(d)
states: 
d) Each limited
liability company shall maintain in writing or in any other form capable of
being converted into clearly legible tangible form at the office referred to in
subdivision (a) all of the following:
(1) A current list
of the full name and last known business or residence address of each member
and of each transferee set forth in alphabetical order, together with the
contribution and the share in profits and losses of each member and transferee.
(2) If the limited
liability company is a manager-managed limited liability company, a current
list of the full name and business or residence address of each manager.
(3) A copy of the
articles of organization and all amendments thereto, together with any powers
of attorney pursuant to which the articles of organization or any amendments
thereto were executed.
(4) Copies of the
limited liability company's federal, state, and local income tax or information
returns and reports, if any, for the six most recent fiscal years.
(5) A copy of the
limited liability company's operating agreement, if in writing, and any
amendments thereto, together with any powers of attorney pursuant to which any
written operating agreement or any amendments thereto were executed.
(6) Copies of the
financial statement of the limited liability company, if any, for the six most
recent fiscal years.
(7) The books and
records of the limited liability company as they relate to the internal affairs
of the limited liability company for at least the current and past four fiscal
years.
(Corp. Code, § 17701.13(d).)  
DISCUSSION
            Petitioner
moves for a peremptory writ of mandate to enforce his rights to inspect
Respondent’s books and records, arguing that Respondent has ignored his request
for inspection in violation of Petitioner’s statutory and contractual
inspection rights. Petitioner argues that Respondent has provided incomplete
records on a voluntary basis, but has not explained its refusal/failure to
provide access to corporate records.  
            Petitioner argues that he is a
natural person residing in the Republic of India and is the owner and holder of
record of one Class A Membership Unit as defined in Respondent’s Operating
Agreement for Oceans V, LLC dated June 21, 2016.  (Pet.’s Opening Brief at p.2.)[1]  Petitioner argues that Sagar Kumar is the
manager of Respondent, which was formed to loan funds invested by its LLC
members to the manager, in order to be used to develop, renovate, and operate a
180-room Cambria Hotel and Suite in downtown Los Angeles.  (Id.) 
Petitioner argues that he invested $500,000, plus an administrative fee
of $30,000, pursuant to the terms of a Subscription Agreement dated November
29, 2016.  (Id.)  Petitioner argues that he invested in
Respondent in an effort to obtain a green card under the Employment-Based Fifth
Preference Immigrant Investor Program (EB-5 Program).  (Id.) 
Petitioner argues that his Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur
(I-526) was denied.  (Id. at
p.3.)  Petitioner argues that under the
Subscription Agreement, he is entitled to the return of his investment because
of the I-526 denial, but that Respondent has been uncommunicative after Petitioner’s
I-526 denial.  (Id.)  Thus, Petitioner seeks to review Respondent’s
corporate records pursuant to Corporations Code, § 17704.10 and the Operating
Agreement at sections 8.1 and 8.2.  (Id.)  Specifically, Petitioner seeks the following
documents: 
a. a current list of the full name and last
known business or residence address of each Member and of each transferee set
forth in alphabetical order, together with the contribution and the share in
profits and losses of each Member and transferee;
b. a current list of the full name and
business or residence address of each Manager;
c. a copy of the articles of organization and
all amendments thereto, together with any powers of attorney pursuant to which
the articles of organization or any amendments thereto were executed;
d. copies of Respondent’s federal, state, and
local income tax or information returns and reports, if any, for the six most
recent fiscal years;
e. a copy of the Operating Agreement, and any
amendments thereto, together with any powers of attorney pursuant to which the
Operating Agreement or any amendments thereto were executed;
f. copies of the financial statements of
Respondent, if any, for the six most recent fiscal years; and
g. the books and records of Respondent as they
relate to the internal affairs of Respondent for at least the current and past
four fiscal years, including the following:
i. all documents and correspondence relating
to the Loan by Respondent to the Manager;
ii. all documents and correspondence relating
to the solicitation of investments in Respondent;
iii. all documents and correspondence relating
to the Project;
iv. all documents and correspondence relating
to any agreements, contracts, memoranda of understanding, or the like entered
into by and between Respondent and any individual or entity in respect of the
Project;
v. all documents and correspondence relating
to Petitioner’s Capital Account; 
vi. all documents and correspondence relating
to any transactions between Respondent and the Manager or any of the Manager’s
Affiliates;
vii. all documents and correspondence relating
to any transfers of funds by Respondent to the Manager or any of the Manager’s
Affiliates;
viii. all documents and correspondence
relating to any distributions by Respondent made pursuant to Section 6.6 of the
Operating Agreement or otherwise;
ix. all documents relating to all checking,
savings, money market, and other bank or deposit accounts maintained by, for,
or in the name of Respondent during the period of January 1, 2016 to the
present, including but not limited to all monthly, quarterly, and yearly
statements, all check registers, all canceled checks, and all deposit slips;
and
x. all documents and correspondence relating
to all amounts transferred by Respondent to any entity owned or controlled, in
whole or in part, by the Manager, whether or not such entity is one of
Manager’s Affiliates.
Petitioner argues
that Respondent has produced incomplete records but has failed to
respond to Petitioner’s request to inspect and copy the books and
records. 
            In
opposition, Respondent argues that in late December 2023 or early January 2024,
Respondent responded initially to Petitioner’s request, and then produced
further documents on February 8, 2024 and February 22, 2024.  (Liang Decl., Exs. A-C.)  Respondent argues that in responding to each
category of documents, it explained what documents were being produced, where
the documents could be located, which documents were still being gathered, and
which documents did not exist.  (Id.,
Ex. B.)  For Category 1, Respondent
explained that it produced all available documents and noted that “[b]ecause there are two classes of membership
interests, with Class A holding a preferential right to return of capital and a
fixed rate of return, it is not possible to state a fixed share of profits and
losses held by any member. Mr. Patel owns 10% of the aggregate Class A
membership interests.” In response to Category 2, Respondent states that it
produced all available documents.  In
response to Category 3, Respondent states that it produced all available
documents available (except for power of attorneys because there are no
responsive documents) and specifically identified the location of those
documents in the production folder. In response to Category 4, Respondent
states that it produced all tax returns for 2019-2022.  In response to Category 5, Respondent states
that it informed Petitioner that there are no responsive documents.  In response to Category 6, Respondent states
that it produced all responsive general ledgers for 2016 to 2018, but explained
that Respondent did not prepare or maintain any financial statements.  In response to Category 7, Respondent states
that it produced virtually all responsive documents for 7(a),(b), (d)-(g), and
(j); it sought to meet and confer further for 7(c) due to the broad scope and
it informed Petitioner that there were no responsive documents to 7(h).  Respondent argues that it complied with
Petitioner’s request by producing essentially all documents sought (more than
1,338 pages) such that the petition should be denied. 
            While Respondent has made
a production of documents, the Corporations
Code, § 17704.10(b) allows for Petitioner
to inspect and copy Respondent’s records.  Section 17704.10(b)(1) allows for Respondent
to inspect records as described in section 17701.13.  Section 17701.13(d) lists 7 categories of
documents, which are essentially identical to the documents sought by Petitioner
in Categories (a) to (g).  As such, the
Court will grant the petition for writ of mandate such that Petitioner may
inspect and copy Respondent’s records with respect to Categories (a) to (g) (or
the statutorily allowed inspection of documents as listed in section 17701.13(d)).

            However, the Court denies
the petition in part such that the request is denied as to Category (g),
subsections (i) to (x).  While Respondent
voluntarily produced documents (or stated its inability to comply as no documents
existed) with respect to these subcategories, Corporations Code, § 17701.13(d)
does not specifically allow for the inspection of all documents and correspondence
related to the Loan, solicitation of investments, the project, etc.  In this writ proceeding, the Court will only
allow the inspection and copying of the documents specifically allowed for
under the statute—i.e., for Category (g) (or section 17701.13(d)(7)), the books
and records of the LLC as they relate to the internal affairs of the LLC for at
least the current and past 4 fiscal years. 
The Court construes this subsection to mean the general books and
records (e.g., accounting ledgers), but not the underlying receipts,
correspondence, communications, emails, or other documents regarding a loan
document, etc.  The Court will narrowly
construe what is allowed under the Corporations Code and will not employ the
broad relevancy standard under the Civil Discovery Act in reaching this
decision.  
            Petitioner argues that he
is entitled to inspect and copy the records pursuant to “Section 17704.10 of
the California Revised Uniform Limited Liability Company Act … and pursuant to
Sections 8.1 and 8.2 of the Operating Agreement.”  (Pet.’s Opening Brief at p.3.)  However, as noted above, a copy of the Operating
Agreement was not provided.  As such, the
Court cannot ascertain what sections 8.1 and 8.2 contain and whether they allow
for a broader production or inspection of documents than what is allowed under
section 17701.13(d)—such as the documents in subsection (g)(i) to (x).  (Furthermore, it does not appear that
Petitioner has filed a claim for breach of the Operating Agreement against
Respondent for failure to allow inspection of certain documents.)  
            Petitioner
seeks $17,500 in legal fees incurred in connection with filing the petition,
pursuant to Corporations Code, § 17704.10(g). 
(Pet. at p.9; Pet.’s Opening Brief at p.7.)  Petitioner’s counsel, William E. Adams,
states that his hourly rate is $715 and that he spent time preparing the petition,
attending the hearing, and preparing a supplemental brief, and anticipates
spending 2 additional hours to travel to and attend the hearing.  (Adams Decl., ¶¶3-4.)  Although Mr. Adams states that he has
reviewed the time entries for this petition, he has not attached any billing
documents or provided the Court with the amount of time he spent on each
task.  (Id., ¶4.)  At this time, the Court declines to award
attorney’s fees for bringing this petition. 
Petitioner may separately file a noticed motion stating its entitlement
to fees and with supporting declarations and evidence. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Petitioner Janakkumar Dineshchandra
Patel’s Petition for Writ of Mandate to compel inspection and copying of
corporate documents under CCP § 1085 and Corporations Code, § 17704.10 against
Respondent Oceans V, LLC is granted in part and denied in part.  The petition is granted in part such that the
inspection and copying of Respondent’s business records during normal business hours may occur within 30 days
of this order regarding the following categories of documents: 
(1) A current list
of the full name and last known business or residence address of each member
and of each transferee set forth in alphabetical order, together with the
contribution and the share in profits and losses of each member and transferee.
(2) If the limited
liability company is a manager-managed limited liability company, a current
list of the full name and business or residence address of each manager.
(3) A copy of the
articles of organization and all amendments thereto, together with any powers
of attorney pursuant to which the articles of organization or any amendments
thereto were executed.
(4) Copies of the
limited liability company's federal, state, and local income tax or information
returns and reports, if any, for the six most recent fiscal years.
(5) A copy of the
limited liability company's operating agreement, if in writing, and any
amendments thereto, together with any powers of attorney pursuant to which any
written operating agreement or any amendments thereto were executed.
(6) Copies of the
financial statement of the limited liability company, if any, for the six most
recent fiscal years.
(7) The books and
records of the limited liability company as they relate to the internal affairs
of the limited liability company for at least the current and past four fiscal
years.
The
petition is denied to the extent that it seeks the inspection and copying of
the following records that are outside the scope of Corporations Code, §
17701.13(d): 
i. all documents and correspondence relating
to the Loan by Respondent to the Manager;
ii. all documents and correspondence relating
to the solicitation of investments in Respondent;
iii. all documents and correspondence relating
to the Project;
iv. all documents and correspondence relating
to any agreements, contracts, memoranda of understanding, or the like entered
into by and between Respondent and any individual or entity in respect of the
Project;
v. all documents and correspondence relating
to Petitioner’s Capital Account; 
vi. all documents and correspondence relating
to any transactions between Respondent and the Manager or any of the Manager’s
Affiliates;
vii. all documents and correspondence relating
to any transfers of funds by Respondent to the Manager or any of the Manager’s
Affiliates;
viii. all documents and correspondence
relating to any distributions by Respondent made pursuant to Section 6.6 of the
Operating Agreement or otherwise;
ix. all documents relating to all checking,
savings, money market, and other bank or deposit accounts maintained by, for,
or in the name of Respondent during the period of January 1, 2016 to the
present, including but not limited to all monthly, quarterly, and yearly
statements, all check registers, all canceled checks, and all deposit slips;
and
x. all documents and correspondence relating
to all amounts transferred by Respondent to any entity owned or controlled, in
whole or in part, by the Manager, whether or not such entity is one of
Manager’s Affiliates.
            No
attorney’s fees and costs will be awarded at this time.  Petitioner should file a separately noticed
motion for attorney’s fees.  
            Petitioner shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
June 7, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge of
the Superior Court


