 Case Number:  21STCV01552    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



AHMAD HEIDARI, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
MARRIOTT
   INTERNATIONAL INC., SWVP WARNER CENTER HOTEL LLC, MERRITT HOSPITALITY LLC,
   HEI HOTELS LLC, and DOES 1 to 10
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.: 21STCV01552
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO CLARIFY THE COURT’S APRIL 3, 2024 RULING, OR
  ALTERNATIVELY, A PROTECTIVE ORDER AGAINST ADDITIONAL DISCOVERY
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 16,
  2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 23, 2021, plaintiff Ahmad
 Heidari (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against defendants Marriott International
 Inc. (“Marriott”). This
action arises from a slip and fall that occurred on a pool deck that had
allegedly deteriorated anti-slip flooring. On February 24, 2021, Plaintiff
added SWVP Warner Center Hotel LLC (“SWVP
Warner”) and Merritt Hospitality LLC (“Merritt Hospitality”) as Doe 1 and Doe
2. Marriott was dismissed on March 29, 2021. 
On September 23, 2021, the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. The FAC adds Nafiseh Heidari as a
plaintiff (hereafter, collectively with Plaintiff, “Plaintiffs”). 
On March 3, 2023, HEI Hotels, LLC (“HEI”) was
added as Doe 3. 
On April 19, 2024, SWVP Warner, Merritt
Hospitality, and HEI Hotels (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this motion for
an order clarifying a minute order issued on April 3, 2024 (“April 3 Order”), or
alternatively, a protective order against additional discovery. 
On June 10, 2024, the Court heard oral argument
and continued the hearing to July 16, 2024. The Court additionally ordered
supplemental briefing from the parties. Supplemental briefs and a copy of the
court reporter’s transcript were filed on July 8, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008,
subdivision (b), “[w]hen an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)¿
As it relates to new or different facts,
circumstances, or law under Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008, subdivision
(a), “the moving party must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure
to produce that evidence at an earlier time.”¿ (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240
Cal.App.4th 246, 255.) Furthermore, “facts of which the party seeking
reconsideration was aware at the time of the original ruling are not “new or
different.” (In re Marriage of Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Procedural
Background
This
case was initially assigned to Department 30 of the Spring Street Courthouse
(“Department 30”). On January 12, 2024, after the parties submitted that they
were ready for trial, the matter was assigned to the Honorable Patrick T.
Madden in Department S28 of the Governor George Deukmejian Courthouse
(“Department S28”) for trial.  
After
being assigned the matter, Judge Madden issued a series of orders ruling on the
parties’ motions in limine. On February 7, 2024, Judge Madden set an
evidentiary hearing pursuant to section 402 of the Evidence Code to determine
whether to allow testimony from Plaintiffs’ expert witness, Matthew Reynolds.
The hearing took place on February 29, 2024, and March 1, 2024, and the parties
subsequently submitted supplemental briefing on the issue on March 4, 2024. 
On
March 6, 2024, Judge Madden ruled in favor of Plaintiffs and permitted Mr.
Reynolds’s testimony to be presented (“March 6 Order”). Judge Madden also
permitted Plaintiffs to add new records and three new witnesses, Jeffrey Block,
Bruce Greenfield, and Michael Van Do to the Exhibit and Witness Lists for
trial. Judge Madden then gave Defendants the opportunity to depose these three
newly-added witnesses and designate a new expert witness to address Mr.
Reynolds’s opinions by vacating the trial date and the discovery cut-off date
for both fact and expert witness discovery. The matter was returned to the
Honorable Lynne M. Hobbs in Department 30 and a trial setting conference was
scheduled for April 3, 2024. 
Prior
to the conference, on March 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a
declaration arguing that fact discovery has been reopened in its entirety and
that the trial setting conference should be continued. Plaintiffs’ counsel
claimed that due to Defendants’ gamesmanship, they only recently learned of the
possibility of additional defendants who should be held responsible for the
unlicensed installation of a pool deck and coping after the initial
construction of the pool; Plaintiffs’ counsel stated that written discovery had
been propounded on Defendants to determine the identities of those defendants
involved in the installation. 
In
response, on March 29, 2024, Defendants submitted a statement in which they
argued that Judge Madden’s ruling reopening discovery was without jurisdiction
because it contravened Judge Hobbs’s earlier rulings on Plaintiffs’ previous
requests to reopen discovery. Despite Defendants’ contention that whether to
reopen discovery was an outstanding issue which needed to be addressed, the
issue of reopening discovery was not addressed in the April 3 Order. In the
April 3 Order, Judge Hobbs only scheduled the final status conference and trial
(both of which have since been vacated after the case was re-assigned to this
Independent Calendar court). On April 19, 2024, Defendants filed this motion
for clarification or, in the alternative, a protective order. 
B.  
Defendants’
Request for Clarification
At
the outset, although Defendants purport to seek clarification on whether
discovery has been reopened by Judge Hobbs’s April 3 Order, Defendants’ motion
is an untimely request to review the scope of the March 6 Order issued by Judge
Madden which reopened discovery. Defendants claim that Judge Madden’s ruling
“implicitly made clear” that any additional discovery could only be conducted
by Defendants in response to Plaintiffs’ newly-admitted evidence. (Motion, p. 10.)
As persuasively argued by Plaintiffs at oral argument and in their supplemental
brief, this claim that only Defendants were entitled to conduct limited
discovery is belied by the unqualified vacatur of the trial date, discovery
cut-off date, and the date to designate expert witnesses and to conduct expert
witness discovery. It is further belied by the fact that five days after Judge
Madden issued his March 6 Order, Defendants issued subpoenas for Plaintiff’s
medical records, which have nothing to do with the pool decking or testimony
presented at the 402 hearing. (Cullen Supp. Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for
clarification is DENIED.       
C.  
Defendants’
Motion for Protective Order
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ discovery requests for information and documents predating
their acquisition of the hotel and all documents provided in connection with
their purchase of the hotel is unduly burdensome and overbroad. Although
Defendants attach copies of Plaintiffs’ written discovery requests, Defendants
offer no admissible evidence demonstrating good cause for a protective order.
There is no evidence that responding to Plaintiffs’ outstanding discovery would
be unduly burdensome for Defendants or that the discovery sought is overbroad. Defendants
essentially argue that it is too late for Plaintiffs to conduct this discovery
and should have done so earlier. But whether it is “too late” to conduct
discovery rests on the discovery cut-off date. Here, Judge Madden vacated the
discovery cut-off deadlines. Therefore, Defendants’ arguments lack merit and
their motion for a protective order is DENIED. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ Motion is DENIED in its entirety. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 16th
day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at alhdept3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 