  Case Number:  19STCV34640    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE R. ROCALEON, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
   MOTOR COMPANY, INC., et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV34640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS HARLEY-DAVIDSON MOTOR COMPANY GROUP, LLC AND
   TMCHB, INC. dba HUNTINGTON BEACH HARLEY-DAVIDSON’S MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION; MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER; 
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 16,
  2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
Plaintiff
Jose R. Rocaleon filed this action on September 30, 2019, after sustaining
injuries in a motorcycle crash while driving his Harley-Davidson 2018 Softail
FXLR. Plaintiff asserts claims for: (1) negligence, (2) negligent products
liability, (3) strict products liability for failure to warn, (4) strict
products liability for defective design, and (5) strict products liability for
defective manufacturing. 
Defendants
Harley-Davidson Motor Company Group, LLC (“Harley-Davidson”) (erroneously sued
as “Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc.”) and TMCHB, Inc. dba Huntington Beach
Harley-Davidson (substituted in for Doe 1 on April 29, 2020) (“TMCHB”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) move for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of 4th and 5th causes of action for strict products liability based
on theories of defective design and defective manufacturing. 
Plaintiff’s
complaint also named Precision Performance, LLC dba TNT Cycle Works (“Precision
Performance”) as a defendant. On October 7, 2022, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Precision Performance for indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
On October
11, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication. 
On May 24,
2024, Defendants filed a motion for a protective order. 
On July 2,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief, along with evidentiary objections
and declarations of two experts and his counsel. Plaintiff also filed a notice
of lodging of documents produced pursuant to protective order. As no motion to
seal was filed by Defendants, the Court ORDERS these documents to be placed in
the public record. (CRC
2.551(b).) 
On July 9,
2024, Defendants filed reply papers in support of its motion for summary
judgment/summary adjudication and motion for protective order. 
II.         
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION
A.  
Legal
Standard 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To
meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a
defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed
evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) The supporting evidence can be in the form
of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
B.  
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff submits 37 objections to the
Declaration of Leah Orloff (“Orloff”) on the grounds that the statements and
opinions made within lack personal knowledge and foundation. Orloff testified
in deposition on April 26, 2024, that she was not involved in the
pre-development phase of products or testing of the “Softail platform” or the
seat for the 2018 FXLR. (Plaintiff’s Ex. E, 30:18-31:24, 32:4-9, 38:10-13,
63:15-65:12.) 
Objection No. 1 is overruled because
Orloff has personal knowledge of her own role and obligations of her
employment. 
Next, Objection Nos. 2-5, 7-8, 10, 26,
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, address Orloff’s ability to authenticate the Owner’s
manual, service manual, PDI checklist, and engineering drawings attached to her
declaration as well as other documents produced in discovery. As an employee
who “supports and participates in investigation of field complaints”, the Court
is satisfied that Orloff has sufficient knowledge of Harley-Davidson’s
recordkeeping and operations to authenticate these documents. These objections
are OVERRULED. 
Objection Nos. 6 and 9 are OVERRULED.
Orloff has personal knowledge of the materials that she reviewed and can
identify them. 
Objection Nos. 11 through 20 are
OVERRULED. These objections are directed towards Orloff’s description of the
manufacturing of the Subject Motorcycle, which is separate from pre-testing
development. 
Objection 21: SUSTAINED. Orloff’s claim
that there was no issue with loose seat fasteners at the time the Subject
Motorcycle was received by the dealership is based on a PDI checklist attached
as Exhibit AA. Exhibit AA is blank and does not appear to concern specifically
the Subject Motorcycle, therefore, her statement that “the PDI checklist
reflects the Subject 2018 FXLR passed the dealership pre-delivery inspection”
lacks foundation.  
Objection 23-25, 33-35, and 37 are
SUSTAINED. As Orloff was not involved with the pre-development or product
testing of the Softail platform, which includes the 2018 FXLR, she lacks
foundation to attest to the “design objectives” or the tests performed. In
response to Plaintiff’s objections, Defendants merely repeat what Orloff
already states in her declaration. Although Orloff may have reviewed testing
data, they are not attached to her declaration and it is not evident how Orloff
became aware of the specific tests and design objectives, considering that
Orloff testified in deposition that she does not work in the Durability
Department.
Objection No. 36, related to warranty
searches, is OVERRULED. 
C.  
Discussion
Plaintiff alleges that he sustained
serious injuries and damages when the seat of his motorcycle dislodged while he
was riding it. (Compl., ¶ 8.) The basic facts underlying his purchase of the
motorcycle and those leading up to his accident are undisputed. For instance,
the parties agree that Plaintiff purchased a 2018 Harley-Davidson FXLR Softail
Motorcycle (“Subject Motorcycle”) on May 23, 2018 from TMCHB and the Subject
Motorcycle had an odometer reading of seven miles. (UMF Nos. 1, 2.) Plaintiff
took the Subject Motorcycle to Precision Performance for a 1,000 mile service
on June 9, 2018, and took it home later that same day (UMF Nos. 3, 4.) The next
morning, on June 10, 2018, Plaintiff rode the Subject Motorcycle to the Mount
Wilson Observatory. (UMF No. 6.) He experienced no difficulty with its
performance on the ascent. (UMF No. 7.) 
1.  
.
Summary Judgment and The Existence of a Design Defect
Defendants argue that there is no
evidence of a design defect because Plaintiff’s discovery responses are
“noticeably void of any specificity on the defect claim or supporting evidence
for the claim.” (Motion, p. 11.) Defendants cite to Plaintiff’s response to inspection
demands and special interrogatories seeking documents and information supporting
Plaintiff’s contention that a design defect existed, served on March 19, 2020.
Plaintiff’s responses, while not the model of completeness, sufficiently
identify the design defect by stating that Plaintiff’s seat “became detached
during normal operation of the subject vehicle and the screw system to hold the
seat down is defectively designed.” (Lonnie Decl., Ex. C, pp.6-7.) While this
response is admittedly not detailed, it is not so “factually devoid” as to
shift the burden to Plaintiff to prove the existence of triable issues. And
even if it did, as further discussed below, Plaintiff sufficiently meets his
burden to show that triable issues of material fact exist. 
Alternatively, Defendants argue that the
evidence negates any finding of a design defect under the risk-benefit test. “[A]
product may be found defective in design . . . under either of two alternative
tests.  First, a product may be found
defective in design if the plaintiff establishes that the product failed to
perform as safely as an ordinary consumer would expect when used in an intended
or reasonably foreseeable manner. 
Second, a product may alternatively be found defective in design if the
plaintiff demonstrates that the product’s design proximately caused his injury
and the defendant fails to establish, in light of the relevant factors, that,
on balance, the benefits of the challenged design outweigh the risk of danger
inherent in such design.” (Barker v. Lull Engineering Co. (1978) 20
Cal.3d 413, 432.)  
A non-exhaustive list of factors
relevant to the risk-benefit test include “the gravity of the danger posed by
the challenged design, the likelihood that such danger would occur, the
mechanical feasibility of a safer alternative design, the financial cost of an
improved design, and the adverse consequences to the product and to the
consumer that would result from an alternative design.”  (Id. at p. 431.)  This test, in short, subjects a manufacturer
to liability when ‘the design is not as safe as it should be—while stopping
short of making the manufacturer an insurer for all injuries which may result
from the use of its product.” (Kim v. Toyota Motor Corp. (2018) 6
Cal.5th 21, 30 (citation omitted).)
Defendants contend that the seat
fastener design passes the risk-benefit test. To the extent that they rely on
Orloff’s declaration to identify the types of validation tests which were
performed on the 2018 FXLR seat, the Court sustains the objections to these
descriptions of testing due to Orloff’s lack of personal knowledge of those
testing methods and the lack of evidence explaining her knowledge of the
testing and design process. Thus, the remainder of Orloff’s declaration endeavors
to show that rear fastener system used on the 2018 FXLR seat passes the
risk-benefit test. Orloff describes the four mounting points for the motorcycle
seat and opines that the risk of the seat dislodging from the frame is low when
the rider sits and applies their weight to the seat. (Orloff Decl., ¶¶ 20- 23.)
Orloff explains that even without the rear fastener present, the seat is
retained to the motorcycle by the rider’s weight while riding within normal
motorcycle operating conditions because the weight of the rider places downward
pressure and “nests” the seat within the frame to ensure there is no additional
fore-aft or side-to-side movement of the seat. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 24.) Orloff further
explains the importance of being able to remove the seat “with minimal tools”
by a customer on the road in order to make adjustments and perform
repairs/maintenance. (Id., ¶ 25-26.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff relies on the
expert declarations of John Lloyd (“Lloyd”), a human factors expert with a
specialization in motor vehicle accident and motorcycle reconstruction. Lloyd describes
the condition of the Subject Motorcycle and explains that the presence and
direction of scrape marks on the top of the rear fender is consistent with Plaintiff’s
account of the crash event, which is that the seat had dislodged from the
frame. (Lloyd Decl., ¶ 12.) Lloyd states he can “reasonably envision that,
without the rear retention screw, if a rider encountered some roadway
imperfections which caused the motorcycle suspension to bounce, thereby
affecting their weight applied through the seat, this could unload the
under-seat isolator supports, allowing the seat to move” and disengaging it
from the frame bracket.  (Id., ¶
15.) Lloyd states that “[a]ny subsequent lateral force, such as that
encountered while leaning the motorcycle in a curve, could shift the center of
mass of the seated rider causing the seat and rider to slide off the traveling
motorcycle.” (Ibid.) Lloyd opines that an alternate design to the rear
retaining screw, such as a seat bolt post and lock nut with a shake-proof
washer, would have prevented the seat from separating from the Subject
Motorcycle while being operated. (Id., ¶ 17.) 
On reply, Defendants argue that Lloyd’s
opinions regarding alternative designs for the Subject Motorcycle’s seat screw
system should be disregarded because it is speculative and he does not claim
expertise as a design engineer or hold a degree in mechanical engineering.
Though Defendants did not file formal evidentiary objections, the Court finds
that any such objections would be overruled. Lloyd’s opinion is supported by
his inspection of the Subject Motorcycle and his experience in human factors
and motorcycle accidents. He also sufficiently sets forth his experience in
motorcycle accident reconstruction and his personal experience with building
custom motorcycles. (Lloyd Decl., ¶ 20.) Accordingly, Plaintiff raises a
triable issue of fact regarding the existence of a design defect and Defendants’
motion for summary judgment is DENIED, as is its motion for summary
adjudication of the Fourth Cause of Action. 
Because Defendants only sought summary
adjudication of the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action in the alternative, the
Court need not evaluate whether triable issues of material fact exist with
respect to Plaintiff’s First, Second, or Third Causes of Action. 
2.  
Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Fifth Cause of Action
Defendants’ motion seeks summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the Fifth Cause of
Action for manufacturing defect. To show that Plaintiff cannot establish that a
manufacturing defect exists, Defendants submit Orloff’s declaration. Orloff is
currently employed as a Principal Engineer in Product Integrity at the
Harley-Davidson Product Development Center by Harley-Davidson. (Orloff Decl., ¶
1.) She states that her role comprises three primary areas of responsibility:
(1) support product development in warning labels and alerts and assigned
platform work, (2) support and participate in investigations of field
complaints to determine if issues should be further evaluated, and (3) provide
technical support for internal and outside counsel. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 1.) 
Orloff was asked to review documents
and data concerning Plaintiff’s Subject Motorcycle and assess the design and
history of the Subject Motorcycle. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 3.) She reviewed and
analyzed the owner’s manual and service manual for the Subject Motorcycle, the
Subject Motorcycle’s pre-delivery inspection checklist, warranty and customer
contact data, test and validation data for the 2018 FXLR seat, engineering
drawings for the 2018 FXLR, durability and test incident report for the 2018
FXLR, standard work instructions and control plans for the 2018 FXLR, seat
renderings of the 2018 FXLR, as well as Plaintiff’s pleadings, deposition
testimony, and written discovery responses. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Orloff states that “[t]he specified
torque of the seat screw is dynamically monitored and recorded every cycle and
provides a documented and visual indication that the seat screw has been
installed and achieved the specified torque. Specifically, a green light on the
torque tool signals to the operator that the operation is a ‘PASS’, and if not
green, signals in the log that it is a repair condition.” (Orloff Decl., ¶ 8.)
At the end of the assembly line, there are three more inspections performed by
at least two different operators. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 9.) The end-of-line
inspection involves an inspector’s review of an individual motorcycle to
determine if there are no missing or loose parts. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 10.) A roll
test checks various electrical and mechanical functions while an operator rides
the motorcycle on rollers. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 11.) A pre-crating inspection
checks for loose or missing parts. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 12.) Any corrections,
issues, or anomalies identified or documented during these three tests would be
documented, but she did not find any. (Orloff Decl., ¶¶ 10-12.) After the tests
are performed and the motorcycles are sent to a dealer, the dealer is required
to perform another inspection, referred to as a Pre-Delivery Inspection
(“PDI”), in order to check for loose or missing parts that may have been
disturbed during shipping. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 13.) The PDI process involves a
checklist with instructions, which include: (1) removing the seat and adjusting
the suspension for the test rider, (2) installing the seat so that the fastener
(or screw) is secured to a specified torque, and (3) “pull[ing] up on the seat
to be sure it is secure” prior to a road test. (Orloff Decl., ¶ 14.)
By submitting evidence that there is no
documentation reflecting manufacturing issues with the Subject Motorcycle (when
such documentation would have existed) Defendants have met their burden to make
a prima facie showing that the Subject Motorcycle did not have a manufacturing
defect. 
Plaintiff’s opposition brief focuses on
whether there was a design defect or a failure to warn and his separate
statement does not identify evidence of a factual dispute regarding the
existence of any manufacturing defect. Instead, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants’ separate statement is procedurally defective. The Court agrees that
the separate statement is deficient. The Court notes that CRC 3.1350(d)(1)(A)
requires that the separate statement separately identify each cause of action,
claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of
the motion. The separate statement should include only material facts and not any
facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion. (CRC
3.1350(d)(2).) Defendants’ motion seeks summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s 4th and 5th causes of action.
However, the separate statement only lists 59 undisputed “material” facts under
the sole heading which states: “EACH CAUSE OF ACTION ASSERTED AGAINST THE
DEFENDANTS FAILS BECAUSE THERE IS NO TRIABLE ISSUE OF MATERIAL FACT SUPPORTING
AN ELEMENT OF EACH CAUSE OF ACTION.” There are no subheadings identifying the
Fifth Cause of Action and setting forth facts which are specifically material
to this claim. 
A separate statement is intended to
facilitate a court’s review of a motion of this type and Defendants have
clearly failed to meet that obligation. Nevertheless, while the Court has
discretion to deny a motion for summary adjudication on the grounds that the moving
party fails to comply with the requirements governing a separate statement, the
Court declines to exercise such discretion here. (See Truong v. Glasser
(2009) 18 Cal.App.4th 102, 18.) Though Defendants’ separate statement
improperly consolidates all material facts applicable to all causes of action,
the total number of material facts is only 59. The separate statement is not so
lengthy and unwieldy as to support a claim that the Plaintiff’s due process
rights were violated. Plaintiff has effectively been able to address all 59
facts and state whether they are disputed, yet Plaintiff does not point to the
existence of any evidence controverting Defendants’ prima facie showing that no
triable issue exists as to the Fifth Cause of Action. 
The Court also notes that although
Plaintiff’s counsel requests a continuance of the hearing pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c(h) to conduct the depositions of Defendants’
employees, the request for additional discovery is related to Defendants’
product testing process, not its manufacturing process. (Azizi Decl., ¶ 13.) The
party seeking a continuance must show that the facts to be obtained are
essential to opposing the motion, that there is reason to believe these facts
may exist, and that additional time is needed to obtain these facts. (See Braganza
v Albertson's LLC (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 144, 152–153.) Plaintiff does not
show how the proposed depositions would reveal facts essential to opposing the
motion with respect to his claim that there was a manufacturing defect.
Therefore, the request to continue the hearing is denied. 
As Plaintiff fails to raise a triable
issue of material fact with respect to the existence of a manufacturing defect,
the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the Fifth Cause
of Action. 
III.       
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
The court, for good cause shown, may
order that depositions not be taken at all to protect a party or deponent
against “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden
and expense.”. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) Here, Defendants wish
to prevent Plaintiff from deposing the following individuals: Kyle Wick, Kirk
Blomdahl, Edgar Camez, Jeff Jennings, and Paul Weiss. Defendants argue that the
testimony from these depositions would be duplicative of the 17 hours of testimony
that Plaintiff has already obtained from three individuals regarding
pre-developmental testing documents for the 2018 FXLR. (Motion, p. 7.) 
Defendants claim that the proposed
deponents have no personal knowledge regarding pre-development testing and
their knowledge is limited to the information in documents which have already
been produced. Defendants also argue that the burden imposed to prepare these
five individuals for depositions outweighs any possibility that the depositions
would lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
These claims are substantiated only by
the conclusory declaration of Rochelle L. Smith, who states that the
depositions would “place a significant burden” on Harley-Davidson’s business and
that the proposed deponents “do not have any percipient knowledge regarding the
claims at issue in this lawsuit.” (Smith Decl., ¶ 8.) Smith broadly states that
these employees have “numerous obligations as a result of their positions” who
cannot “drop their obligations to prepare for depositions and forego a half a
day, or more, of work to be deposed.” (Smith Decl., ¶ 9.) These vague
statements that lack foundation do not demonstrate good cause for a protective
order. (See Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 318.) 
Defendants’ motion for a protective
order is DENIED. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment and summary adjudication of the
Fourth Cause of Action is DENIED. 
The motion for summary adjudication of
the Fifth Cause of Action is GRANTED. 
The motion for a protective order is
DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated
this 16th
day of July
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 