  Case Number:  20TRCV00137    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    October 4, 2023¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      20TRCV00137
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Vincent M.
Lucy v. Matthew R. Stall, et al                             .¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, Matthew R. Stall, as Administrator of the Estate
of Richard J. Stall Jr., and as Trustee of The Richard J. Stall Jr. Trust
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Vincent M. Lucy
¿¿                                                          
TRIAL DATE:                           November 20, 2023  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion for Summary Judgment,
or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                   (1)  Continue Hearing at Plaintiff’s option and
Permit Plaintiff a Sur-Reply 
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On June 30, 2023, Defendant filed his
Motion for Summary Judgment. On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
Defendants filed a reply brief on September 8, 2023.
 
The Court noted at the original hearing for
this motion that Defendant’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities violated
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113(d), as it exceeded the page length
limit. However, the Court permitted Defendants to file a truncated version of their
opening brief . 
 
On September 18, 2023, Defendant filed an
Amended Memorandum of Points and Authorities. On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an objection to Defendant’s Amended Memorandum of Points and Authorities.
Plaintiff contends that Defendant
violated the spirit of the Court’s permission to keep the MSJ on calendar by
merely pruning the length of the brief.  On September 25, 2023, Defendant filed an objection to Plaintiff’s
objection. 
   
            Plaintiff’s objection to Defendant’s
new memorandum of points and authorities claims that Defendants have not truncated
the original opening brief, but rather changed its substantive content.
Plaintiff contends that the Amended Memorandum of Points and Authorities
contains stylistic improvements, shifted arguments, and in some cases different
or new points. For instance, Plaintiff notes that Footnote 7 on page 8 of the
Amended brief is revised to make a better point, and is even longer than the
original footnote. Plaintiff also states that the Fourth heading is simply
reworded to make a different argument, again without shortening. Plaintiff
argues that since Defendant has seen the opposition, and the proof that
Decedent signed off on the Plaintiff’s income taxes, the Defendants have also
chosen to remove the argument that the Plaintiff has committed tax fraud –
noting the original brief presented the court with an argument that the cause
of action for Legal Malpractice must be denied. Plaintiff argues that his
inability to respond to this new Amended Memorandum and Authorities is
procedurally unfair. 
The Court
is willing to continue the hearing, and the trial, if Plaintiff believes it should
be given the opportunity to file a sur-reply addressing only the changed or
additional arguments or points in the redlined version Plaintiff submitted with
its objection to the truncated opening brief. 
The Court concurs with some of Plaintiff’s objections, primarily because
Defendants have opportunistically taken advantage of their own wrong to make substantive
changes to their opening brief after having read the opposition brief and
opposition evidence.
            However, the Court’s substantive tentative would have been
to deny the MSJ, deny the MSA as to most of the causes of action, and to request
oral argument as to the 3rd and 4th causes of
action.  For example, the Court would have
found that Defendants failed to carry their initial burden of showing that no
triable issue of material fact exists as to all four elements of a breach of
oral contract case, and the Court would have found triable issues of fact
concerning the two-year statute of limitations because the alleged breach of
oral contract did not take place until Decedent’s death in 2019, less than two
years before this suit was filed. 
The
Court will give plaintiff the option of filing a sur-reply and continuing the
hearing and the trial.  The FSC date will
also need to be moved because of the Court’s vacation schedule, even if the trial
date were to remain.
 