 Case Number:  23SMCV02619    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  29, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02619




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Connie Chein




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Skye Hoppus and Mark Hoppus, as trustees of the Rollo Tomassi Trust



 
MOTION
 
            Defendant Connie Chein (“Defendant”)
appears specially and moves to quash service of the summons and complaint.  
 
            Plaintiffs Skye Hoppus and Mark
Hoppus, as trustees of the Rollo Tomassi Trust (“Plaintiffs”) oppose the motion.  Defendant has filed a reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and
file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her. (2) To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient
forum.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10,
subd. (a)(1)-(2).)  
 
“In the absence of a voluntary submission to the authority of the
court, compliance with the statutes governing service of process is essential
to establish that court's personal jurisdiction over a defendant. When a
defendant challenges that jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash, the
burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving,
inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439–1440; accord Lebel v.
Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1160 [“It was incumbent upon plaintiff,
after the filing of defendant's motion to quash, to present evidence
discharging her burden to establish the requisites of valid service on
defendant”]; Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413
[“when a defendant challenges the court's personal jurisdiction on the ground
of improper service of process “the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service” ”].)  
 
A declaration of service by a registered process server establishes a
presumption that the facts stated in the declaration are true. (Evid. Code, §
647; Rodriguez v. Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)  Equally important, “A letter correctly
addressed and properly mailed is presumed to have been received in the ordinary
course of mail.”  (Evid. Code, § 641; but
see Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Edwards (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1486
[“The presumption of Evidence Code section 641 properly applied here, unless
rebutted by a denial of receipt”].)  
 
“In order to obtain in personam jurisdiction through any form of
constructive service there must be strict compliance with the requisite
statutory procedures.” (Zirbes v. Stratton (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1407,
1417, quoting Stamps v. Superior Court (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 108,
110.)   
 
First, “[a] summons may be served by
personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person
to be served.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
415.10.)  Alternatively, a
plaintiff may serve an individual defendant “by leaving a copy of the summons
and complaint at the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place
of business, or usual mailing address . . . , in the presence of a competent
member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office,
place of business, or usual mailing address . . . , at least 18 years of age,
who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy
of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) 
 
EVIDENCE
 
First, Plaintiffs object to the Declaration of Liliana Vasquez
(“Vasquez Declaration”) on the basis that it is unsigned.  Plaintiffs contend:  “Plaintiffs object to the entire Declaration
on the grounds that it is unsigned.  The
Declaration does not include an ink signature, a holographic signature, or even
an /s/ signature.  Instead, Defendant has
typed in the name of the declarant on the signature line.  This is improper and, as a result, the
Declaration should be stricken in its entirety.”  (Objections at p. 2:6-9.)  
 
Defendant argues on reply that the Vasquez Declaration is signed
electronically, as evidenced by the “DocuSign Envelop ID: CAA927F5-23A5-4005-BD13-74729C809398”
tag appearing in the upper left corner of both pages of the Vasquez Declaration.  Defendant has not, however, produced any
evidence to authenticate the signature.  
 
“[A]n electronic signature has the same legal effect as a handwritten
signature.”  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto
Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 843 [citing Civ. Code, § 1633.7,
subd. (a).])  Much like with handwritten
signatures, a party “is not required to authenticate” an electronic signature
“as a preliminary matter” or “in the event the authenticity of the signature is
not challenged.”  (Id. at p. 846.)
 
Here, the Court construes Plaintiffs’ argument as challenging the
existence of a signature, not the authenticity of the signature provided.  Plaintiffs’ objection indicates the Vasquez
Declaration does not appear to them to be signed at all, but they would have
accepted, at face value, and without additional authentication, a handwritten
signature, a holographic signature, or a typed signature with a “/s/.”  Thus, Plaintiffs do not challenge the
authenticity of electronic signatures generally, or the authenticity of this
electronic signature specifically.  
 
Because only the existence of a signature is being challenged, and the
authenticity of the electronic signature that was provided has not been
challenged, Defendant is not required to provide any additional proof that it
was Ms. Vasquez who actually personally signed the Vasquez Declaration.  Therefore, the Court overrules Plaintiffs’
general objection to the Vasquez declaration, notwithstanding that Defendant
has not provided any evidence to authenticate the signature.  
 
With request to Plaintiffs’ specific objections to the contents of the
Vasquez Declaration, the Court rules as follows:
 
1.     
Sustained – Foundation
2.     
Sustained – Foundation
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs filed the complaint in
this matter on June 9, 2023.  The proof
of service, which is signed under penalty of perjury, indicates that Defendant
was served by substitute service on July 10, 2023 at 3:10 p.m. when the process
server left the summons and complaint with the person at the front desk of
Defendant’s business.  The person at the
front desk is described in the proof of service as “Hispanic female, age 45,
black hair, brown eyes, 5’4, 150 lbs[.]” 

 
Attached to the proof of service is a “Declaration of Due Diligence,” also
signed under penalty of perjury, indicating that the process server, who works
for the company Express Network, first attempted service on July 5, 2023 at
1:59 p.m. and “I spoke to the receptionist, the subject was not in today she
works here and sometimes at the hospital she doesn’t have a set schedule.”  The Declaration of Due Diligence further
indicates a second attempt at service was made on July 6, 2023 at 1:20 p.m.,
when, “Per receptionist the subject was not in and doesn’t know where she is at
today.”  Finally, the Declaration of Due
Diligence indicates the process server served Defendant via the receptionist on
July 10, 2023 at 3:10 p.m.
 
Also attached to the proof of service is a “Proof of Mailing” signed
under penalty of perjury indicating that Anna Jimenez, who works for the
process service company, Express Network, mailed a copy of the summons and
complaint to the business on July 11, 2023 via first class mail.
 
In opposition, Defendant has produced the Declaration of Liliana
Vasquez, which indicates:
 
·        
“I am over eighteen years of age and a resident
of the State of California.  I am not a
party to this action.  I possess personal
knowledge of each fact stated in this declaration, and could and would
competently testify thereto.”  (¶ 1.)
 
·        
“I am employed at Defendant Connie Chein’s
medical practice offices at 9242 W. Olympic Blvd, Beverly Hills,
California.”  (¶ 2.)
 
·        
“On July 10, 2023, at approximately 2:00 pm, a
person entered Dr. Chein’s facility through an open door.  Upon entering, the server inquired, “Is
Connie Chein here?”  I responded in the
negative.” (¶ 3.)
 
·        
“Subsequently, the person said that he was
serving a subpoena.  However, I
explicitly stated that we were not authorized to accept subpoenas.  Despite this, the server left a copy of the
Summons and Complaint within the facility.” 
(¶ 4.)
 
·        
“I work at the offices each business day.  . . .   Before that day, I had never seen this person
before, nor since.”  (¶ 5.)
 
·        
“I open Dr. Chein’s mail at the medical offices.
. . .  ” 
(¶ 6.)
 
On the basis of the Vasquez Declaration, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs
did not attempt to personally serve Defendant at her office prior to leaving
the papers with the woman at the front desk of Defendant’s business on July 10,
as the proof of service and declaration of diligence indicates.  Thus, Defendant argues, Plaintiffs lacked the
requisite diligence prior to resorting to substitute service.  Moreover, Defendant suggests that because she
never received a copy of the summons and complaint via mail, substitute service
was not properly effectuated in any event.
 
Notwithstanding Defendant’s contentions, the Court finds the Vasquez
Declaration wanting. 
 
 First, missing from the Vasquez
Declaration is any statement that Ms. Vasquez was present at Defendant’s office
on July 5 and July 6 – dates the process server indicated prior attempts to
serve Defendant with the summons and complaint were attempted but unsuccessful.  In addition, Ms. Vasquez does not state she
is the only employee working at Defendant’s office that could have encountered
a process server on either July 5 or July 6. 
As such, simply stating, “I work at the offices each business day” is an
insufficient underpinning for claiming that the only time Defendant was “served”
occurred on July 10.  
 
Second, although Ms. Vasquez states she opens the mail at Defendant’s
office, she does not state how and who receives and processes the mail at
Defendant’s office.  The Court cannot
infer that, just because Ms. Vasquez opens the mail, she is the only person who
handles the mail at Defendant’s office, or there is no one other than Ms.
Vasquez that could have retrieved mail before Ms. Vasquez has an opportunity to
open the mail.  Accordingly, the Court
determines that the Vasquez Declaration does not overcome the presumption set
forth in Evidence Code section 641.  And
even if the Vasquez Declaration was sufficient to rebut the Section 641
presumption, the Court would give the statements of the process server set
forth in the proof of service more weight and credibility.  (See Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc.
(2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 422 [“if the adverse party denies receipt, the
presumption is gone from the case. The trier of fact must then weigh the denial
of receipt against the inference of receipt arising from proof of mailing and
decide whether or not the letter was received”].)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Based upon the record, the Court finds that Defendant has not advanced
sufficient competent proof to rebut the presumption that the information set
forth in the proof of service filed with the Court on August 17, 2023 regarding
Defendant is true.  In turn, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs have met their burden in demonstrating that Defendant was
properly served with the summons and complaint by substitute service.  
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to quash service of
summons and complaint.  Defendant shall
file and serve a response to the complaint on or before October 30, 2023.  
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
DATED:  September 29, 2023                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 