  Case Number:  22SMCV00023    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 29, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV00023




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Cross Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Linda Baggett




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Linda Baggett (“Cross-Complainant”) moves for leave to
file an amended cross complaint to add references to sections of the Labor Code
in the caption under the First Cause of Action for “Failure to Pay Lawful
Wages, Including Overtime” and in the request for damages under the first cause
of action.  The motion is unopposed.  Trial in this matter is currently set for
October 16, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Amendments to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
 
            To wit,
without notice to the other party the Court has wide discretion to allow either
party (i) to add or strike the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in
the name of a party or a mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of
justice” and “on any terms as may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426,
1429.) Alternatively, after notice to the other party, the Court has wide
discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as may be
just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of
Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge, at any time before or after
commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as
may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference
order.”
 
            Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, leave to amend is liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg
(1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an established policy in California
since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter (1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas
v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150, 155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan
v. Superior Court held “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting
of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse
permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)
Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny leave to amend
where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court
may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil &
Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023)
¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)
However, if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay
has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to
amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed
delay alone is not grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment
has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing
amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such
a case even if sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653
(citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).)
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along
with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of
discovery, etc. . . . But the fact that the amendment involves a change in
legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing
party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if
some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the amendment but impose
conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be
proper.’” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation
omitted.) For example, the court may cause the party seeking the amendment to
pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664
(citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural
Requirements
 
            Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must:
 
“(1) Include a
copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.”
 
            In
addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must
be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect
of the amendment;
(2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons
why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The first
cause of action in the original cross-complaint listed Labor Code sections 510
(overtime pay); 1194 (minimum wage and minimum overtime wage); and 558.1 (liability
of owners, directors, officers, and managing agents for violations of wage and
hour laws).  
 
            Cross-Complainant
now seeks to add under the caption for the first cause of action, references to
Labor Code sections 201 (unpaid wages due upon termination); 202 (final
paycheck due immediately upon termination); 218 (private right of action for
wage penalties under the labor code); 218.5 (entitlement to attorneys’ fees for
nonpayment of wages); and 1194.2 (liquidated damages).  Cross-Complainant also seeks to add references
to Labor Code sections 218, 218.5, and 1194.2 in her request for damages under
the first cause of action, and reference to “liquidated damages pursuant to
Labor Code § 1194.2” in the Prayer for Relief for the first cause of
action.  The factual allegations and
causes of action otherwise remain unchanged from the original cross-complaint.  Cross-Complainant has also provided a redlined
and a clean copy of the proposed amended cross-complaint.  (See Ex. A to Cooper Decl.)
 
Counsel for Cross-Complainant,
Stacey M. Cooper, has provided a declaration indicating that the effect of the
amendment will “not remove or add any new or different factual allegations,
legal theories, or claims for relief” and “are being made solely to conform the
Cross-Complaint to the corresponding jury instructions (CACI No. 2700)” for the
first cause of action.  (Cooper Decl. ¶
7.)  Counsel further indicates the
proposed amendments are necessary and proper “because they will have the effect
of clarifying for trial the relief sought by Dr. Baggett and the corresponding
statutory grounds.”  (Id. at ¶
8.)  Counsel further indicates that the
request to amend “was not made earlier because I became aware of the need to
amend the Cross-Complaint on this basis during preparation and review of
proposed jury instructions in preparation for trial on or about August 31,
2023.”  (Ibid.)  
 
However, Cross-Complainant’s fifth
cause of action for wrongful termination and sixth cause of action for
retaliation were already dismissed on cross-defendant Thrive’s motion for
summary adjudication.  (See May 4, 2023
Minute Order.)  Because the only proposed
changes from the original cross-complaint are to add references to various
sections of the Labor Code in conjunction with the first cause of action, the
effect of the proposed amended cross-complaint would be to improperly reassert
and reallege the fifth and sixth causes of action, which have already been
resolved on the merits in Thrive’s favor and dismissed.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            The Court denies
Cross-Complainant’s Motion for Leave to Amend the Cross-Complaint.
 
            Cross-Complainant
shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service
regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED: 
September 29, 2023                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 