 Case Number:  23VECV04751    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  W HOVIG
NARGIZIAN V. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, ET AL.
 
DEMURRER TO ANSWER
 
Date of Hearing:        January 23, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04751
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Hovig Nargizian   
Responding Party:     Defendant
Ford Motor Company 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Barahmand Decl. ¶3.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action.
Plaintiff Hovig Nargizian filed a complaint against Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Fox Factory, Inc. dba Tuscany Motor Company for (1) Breach of
Implied Warranty under The Song-Beverly Warranty Act; (2) Breach of Express
Warranty Obligations under The Song-Beverly Act; and (3) Violation of The Song
Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiff purchased a new 2021 Ford Shelby F150
in November 2021. Plaintiff alleges the vehicle suffered from defects,
malfunctions, misadjustments, and/or nonconformities, which Defendants failed
to conform to the applicable warranties. 
 
TENTATIVE RULLING
 
Plaintiff Hovig Nargizian’s
Demurrer to Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Answer and Affirmative Defenses is
OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Hovig Nargizian
demurs to Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Answer on the grounds Defendant’s
affirmative defenses numbers 1 through 21 fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense, is uncertain, and/or ultimately fails to plead adequate
facts to put Plaintiff on notice of the basis and allegations supporting each
of the defenses. Furthermore, affirmative defenses numbers two, three, five
through twelve, fourteen, fifteen, and seventeen through twenty-two, do not
refer to any specific cause(s) of action and fail to provide any certainty as
to which defenses apply to which causes of action referred to as required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 431.30(g).
 
Within ten (10) days of
service of an answer, a party against whom an answer has been filed may object
by demurrer.¿ (CCP § 430.40.)¿ Unlike a demurrer to a complaint or
cross-complaint, a demurrer to an answer is limited to three grounds:¿(a) The
answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense;¿(b) The answer
is uncertain; or¿(c) Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be
ascertained from the answer whether the contract is written or oral.¿¿ 
 
“Unlike the usual general
demurrer to a complaint the inquiry [on a demurrer to an answer] is not into
the statement of a cause of action.  Instead it is whether the
answer raises a defense to the plaintiff’s stated cause of action. 
[Citations.]  ‘A general demurrer raises the objection that “the answer
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense . . ..”’ 
[Citation.]”  (Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa
(1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 879-880.)  
 
Plaintiff first argues Defendant
fails to state a single fact in support of affirmative defenses nos. 1-21.
Specifically, there are no facts set forth to establish how, what, where, or
why facts supporting each defense; rather, each defense is just a recitation of
the legal principles without any facts whatsoever. Plaintiff further argues affirmative
defenses 2, 3, 5-12, 14, 15, 17-22 are generally pled, consist of only general
boilerplate allegations, and are designed to maintain legal theories which have
no practical application here. Consequently, the uncertainty as to which
defenses apply to which claims, and how the legal theories alleged have any
application to the claims asserted, fail to provide facts sufficient to
establish a defense. 
 
In opposition, Defendant
Ford Motor Company first argues the demurrer should be disregarded because Plaintiff’s
demurrer is not listed in the three specifically enumerated grounds for
demurring to an answer. Defendant further contends Defendant’s affirmative
defenses are proper and required to be pled in order to avoid waiver.
Specifically, Defendant’s answer provides a general denial and twenty-two
affirmative defenses all which are appropriate defenses to Plaintiff’s three
causes of action and entitle defendant to some relief. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
assertion that the defenses are “uncertain” is not because they do not
understand what the legal terms are, it is because they do not refer to
specific causes of action. But, demurrers for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the opposing party “cannot reasonably
respond. 
 
The court finds Defendants’
affirmative defenses  sufficiently state
facts to constitute a defense and are certain. California law requires an
answer to plead facts with as much detail as are required for a cause of
action. (See FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
367, 384.) However, some vagueness may exist in a defendant’s answer if the
answer gives sufficient notice to enable the plaintiff to prepare to meet the
defense, in part because unpled defenses are waived. (See Harris v. City of
Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.) Here, Defendants Affirmative
Defenses 1 through 21 adequately appraise Plaintiff of the issues they would
need to address at trial, especially considering there are only a few factual
allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint – Plaintiff purchased the vehicle (which
Defendant manufactured), there were implied and express warranties made with
the vehicle, and Defendant failed to conform the Vehicle to the applicable
warranties after a reasonable number of attempts to repair. The court further
notes “[a] demurrer based on [affirmative defenses] will not lie where the
action may be, but is not necessarily, barred.” (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.) As such, affirmative
defenses such as ‘unclean hands’ or ‘waiver’ need not be conclusively
established on demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
demurrer to Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Answer is OVRRULED. The court notes
that it strongly discourages plaintiffs from bringing demurrers to answers,
especially in routine litigation, as the court often views such motions as
make-work, intended to drive up fees and costs on both sides, without any
useful purpose in advancing the goals of litigation.  