  Case Number:  24TRCV00226    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
TIFFANY
  ABRAHAM, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV00226




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 5,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles World
Airports
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Tiffany Abraham, et al.
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
second and fourth causes of action in the complaint.  Defendants City of Los Angeles and Los
Angeles World Airports are ordered to file an answer within twenty days. 
The motion to strike is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
            On July 6, 2023, plaintiffs Tiffany
Abraham, individually and as guardian ad litem for Cash Abraham and Cali
Abraham and as successor in interest of Cristopher James Abraham Martin, and
Cash Abraham and Cali Abraham, through their guardian ad litem and as
successors in interest, filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles World Airports, Champion Fire Systems, Inc., Communication Technology
Services, LLC, Communication Technology Services, Inc., Jacobs Engineering
Group, Inc., New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, AT&T Mobility Corporation,
T-Mobile West Tower LLC, T-Mobile West LLC, Spring PCS Assets, LLC, Verizon
Business Network Services, LLC, and Los Angeles SMSA Limited Partnership for (1)
dangerous condition of public property, (2) liability pursuant to Gov. Code,
(3) negligence, (4) negligence and vicarious liability (against City of LA and
LA World Airports), (5) strict products liability (against Champion Fire
Systems), (6) negligent products liability (against Champion), (7) breach of
warranty (against Champion).
            On November 15, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation and order, the venue was changed to Los Angeles Superior Court.
            On January 19, 2024, City of Los
Angeles filed a cross-complaint.
            On February 21, 2024, T-Mobile West
Tower LLC, T-Mobile West LLC, and Sprint PCS Assets, LLC filed a
cross-complaint.
            On February 21, 2024, New Cingular
Wireless PCS, LLC and AT&T Mobility Corporation filed a cross-complaint.
            On February 23, 2024, Communication
Technology Services, LLC filed a cross-complaint.
            On March 1, 2024, Los Angeles SMSA
Limited Partnership filed a cross-complaint.
            On March 7, 2024, Communication
Technology Services filed a FACC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants City of Los Angeles and
Los Angeles World Airports demur to the second and fourth causes of action in
the complaint on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action and/or are uncertain.  (Plaintiffs claim that Defendants failed to properly
identify the claims attacked by the demurrer, that is not accurate.  It appears in the Notice, pg. 2:14-16 and the
Demurrer pg. 4:5-11.)
The complaint alleges that the
events giving rise to the action occurred on October 31, 2022, at approximately
6:58 a.m. at LAX, in or near Terminal 8, Room, 102.  Complaint, ¶22.  Decedent Martin was working in a utility room
at or near Room 102.  Id., ¶23.  While working on a ladder in utility room,
decedent began braising a pipe related to the new HVAC system being
installed.  Suddenly and without warning,
including without the requisite pre-activation alarms, without the requisite delay,
without the requisite lockouts and without other mandated safety mechanisms,
the fixed tank carbon dioxide fire suppressant released lethal doses and
qualities of carbon dioxide into the room. 
Id., ¶24.  Among other negligent
acts, the carbon dioxide tanks, the fire panel, the electrical panel, the
carbon dioxide fire suppression system and the utility rooms where the carbon
dioxide fire suppression systems were located failed to have and/or operate
with the requisite safety precautions. 
Id., ¶25.  As a result of the subject
incident, decedent sustained catastrophic personal injuries and succumbed to
his injuries eleven days later on November 11, 2022.  Id., ¶26.
Second cause of action pursuant to Gov.
Code §§815, 815.2, 815.4, 815.6, 820, 822.2, 840.2, and 850.2
The complaint alleges that due to
the acts and failures to act and dangerous conditions, the public entity
defendants and its employees are liable for the catastrophic injuries and death
to decedent Martin, and damages to plaintiffs. 
Complaint, ¶57.  Gov. Code §815.6
provides:  “Where a public entity is
under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect
against the risk of particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for
an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty
unless the public entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to
discharge the duty.”  Id., ¶58.  The public entity defendants, through its
statements, actions, and deeds, and inactions, as well as pursuant to statutes,
regulations, codes, and ordinances, created and established a special
relationship/duty which required that they take affirmative action to protect
the decedent from the very risk of harm, injuries, and/or death, which he
suffered as a result of the subject incident. 
Id., ¶59.  The public entity
defendants had direct and constructive knowledge of the dangers and code
violations at the subject incident site and/or premises yet failed to act.  Id., ¶60. 
The complaint lists numerous codes and ordinances adopted and/or
applicable to the public entity defendants. 
Id., ¶62.
The complaint further cites to Gov.
Code §815.2(a), which provides that, “[a] public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against the employee or his
personal representative.”  Id., ¶66.  Under Gov. Code §820.8, a public employee is
not exonerated from liability for injuries proximately caused by his or her own
negligent or wrongful acts or omissions. 
Id., ¶67.  The public entity
defendants’ employees’ violations of the mandatory duties make the public
entity defendants vicariously liable under Gov. Code §815.2(a).  Id., ¶68.
Defendants argue that Gov. Code 835
is the sole statutory basis on which a plaintiff can recover against a public
entity for damages arising from a dangerous condition of public property and
that vicarious liability is unavailable. 
See Summerfield v. City of Inglewood (2023) 96 Cal. App. 5th
983, 993 (“The sole statutory basis for imposing liability on public entities
as property owners is section 835.”). 
Defendants assert that the first cause of action is for dangerous
condition of public property.  Defendants
also contend that the complaint does not name any public entity employees for
whom defendants could be vicariously liable. 
Defendants further argue that to the extent that the City could be
vicariously liable even in the absence of an independent statute, the dangers
condition alleged falls under Gov. Code 840, which immunizes the employee for a
dangerous condition caused by an act or omission of that employee.  
Defendants further argue that the
complaint fails to state a claim against them for alleged breach of mandatory
duties under Gov. Code 815.6 because plaintiffs’ sole recourse is Gov. Code
835.  Also, defendants assert, plaintiffs
do not allege with specificity the “enactment” they claim was breached, as they
do not cite to any provision of the alleged enactments.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they are entitled to assert alternative theories of recovery at the
pleading stage.  Further, plaintiffs
assert, in an action against a public entity, facts supporting theories of
dangerous and defective conditions of public property, statutory liability, and
vicarious liability must be stated separately. 
Plaintiffs also contend that they have alleged the elements for
liability under mandatory duty.
In reply, defendants reiterate
their arguments.
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient.  A public
entity is not liable for an injury arising out of an act or omission of the
public entity or its employees except as provided by statute. Gov. Code §815.  Plaintiffs have pled statutory
liability.  Plaintiffs can plead in the
alternative.  Even if the cause of action
is considered to overlap or be duplicative of the first cause of action that is
not a ground for demurrer.  Further, the
cases cited by defendants are not pleading cases.  See Van Kempen v. Hayward Area Park,
Recreation, & Park Dist. (1972) 23 Cal. App. 3d 822 (jury trial); Metcalf
v. County of San Juaquin (2008) 42 Cal. 4th 1121 (jury trial); Brown
v. Poway Unified School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal. 4th 820 (jury
trial).  Summerfield v. City of
Inglewood (2023) 96 Cal. App. 4th 983, a demurrer case, is
distinguishable.  The Summerfield court
had determined that the allegations were insufficient to constitute a cause of
action for dangerous condition, and thus, the allegations were also insufficient
under the cause of action based on Gov. Code §§815.2 and 815.4 because it was
predicated on dangerous condition of public property. 
Plaintiffs have identified the
various codes and ordinances that they claim created the obligation.  Id., ¶62. 
That listing is sufficient for pleading purposes.
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
second cause of action.
Fourth cause of action for
negligence and vicarious liability (Gov. Code §§820, 815.2, 815.4)
The complaint alleges that public
entity defendants are vicariously liable for the tortious acts and omissions of
its independent contractors pursuant to Gov. Code §815.4.  Complaint, ¶85.  The public entity defendants did employ,
hire, or otherwise utilize independent contractors on the subject property,
including defendants.  Id., ¶86.  The tortious acts and omissions of defendants
were direct and legal causes of the subject incident and the fatal injuries to
decedent.  Id., ¶87.  The public entity defendants are vicariously
liable for the tortious acts and omissions of their employees, pursuant to Gov.
Code §815.2.  Id., ¶89.  The public entity defendants and their
employees retained control of the premises. 
Said retained control included prior review, authority to change, and
approval or rejection of methods, means, plans, and designs of construction and
construction activities, including that related to the construction work on the
date of the incident, and including that of the agents and independent contractors
hired or otherwise utilized by the public entity defendants.  Id., ¶94.
Defendants argue that Gov. Code §835
is the sole statutory basis on which a plaintiff can recover against a public
entity for damages arising from a dangerous condition of public property.  Defendants contend that they cannot be held
liable for the acts of its independent contractors, citing to Gov. Code §815.4
states that, “[n]othing in this section subjects a public entity to liability
for the act or omission of an independent contractor if the public entity would
not have been liable for the injury had the act or omission been that of an
employee of the public entity.”  
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they may plead alternatively and even inconsistently.  Plaintiffs contend that the cases, mostly
involving after a jury trial, cited by defendants do not support the assertion
that plaintiffs are limited to pleading either a claim under Gov. Code §835 or
a claim under Gov. Code §§815.2, 815.4, or 815.6 and involve a third party’s
action contributing to the injury causing event.  Plaintiffs also argue that they need not
identify at the pleading stage the specific employees alleged to have been
negligent.
In reply, defendants reiterate
their arguments.
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient.  See under
the second cause of action.
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
fourth cause of action.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendants request that the court
strike paras. 43 (along with page 9, line 6), page 17, lines 8-9, lines 17-18,
paras. 58-64, paras. 65-70, and paras. 85-100.
In light of the ruling on the
demurrer, the motion is DENIED.
ORDER
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
second and fourth causes of action in the complaint.  Defendants City of Los Angeles and Los
Angeles World Airports are ordered to file an answer within twenty days. 
The motion to strike is DENIED. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling.