  Case Number:  19STCV26578    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Wednesday,
October 4, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 14
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ty
Nguyen, et al. v. Akiyama International Company Limited, et al.
19STCV26578
1.      HHGC Management, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            HHGC Management, LLC’s (“HHGC”)
Motion for Summary Judgment is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on July 29, 2019. The
operative Third Amended Complaint was filed on February 24, 2021. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiff Ty Nguyen was working for Nationwide
Plastic Products, Inc. when he was injured because of his arm becoming caught
in the rollers of an Akiyama International, Hi-Ace Printing Press. The premises
were owned by HHGC. Plaintiff Ty Nguyen’s arm was amputated due to the alleged
defect of this product and due to this alleged dangerous condition on property.
Plaintiff Trang Nguyen alleges Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
(“NIED”) and Loss of Consortium. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of
action: 1. Strict Products Liability (Manufacturing Defect); 2. Strict Products
Liability (Design Defect); 3. Products Liability (Negligence); 4. Negligence;
5. NIED; 6. Loss of Consortium; 7. Premises Liability. 
 
Objections
 
Defendant’s objection to Exhibit H is sustained.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(b).
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
HHGC moves for summary judgment as to the operative
Third Amended Complaint. Defendant argues that the subject printing press was
not a fixture attached to the realty and thus, HHGC owed no duty to Plaintiffs.
Defendant argues that, even if deemed to be a fixture, there is no triable
issue of material fact that the printing press was a trade fixture and there
was no duty for HHGC to inspect the printing press. HHGC argues that it did not
have actual or constructive notice that the printing press represented a
dangerous condition, and thus HHGC breached no duty to the plaintiffs.
 
The causes of action against moving party are
negligence and premises liability, as well as bystander NIED and derivative
loss of consortium claims. “To state a cause of action for negligence, a
plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2)
the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the
plaintiff's damages or injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013)
221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62. “The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence. Accordingly, the plaintiff must
prove, legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach
as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” Jones v. Awad
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
First, the Court notes that moving party, and then,
opposing parties, in opposition, focus much of the arguments on the question of
whether the printing press was or was not a fixture, and/or if it could be
deemed a fixture, whether it is a trade fixture. The Court notes that, even in
the authority presented by Defendant, a resolution of this question is not
completely dispositive as to whether the landlord owed or did not owe a duty of
care, and whether the landlord did or did not breach a duty of care. Mora v. Baker Community, Inc. (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 771, 782. 
 
The Court notes, however, that Defendant submitted
competent evidence to demonstrate that the printing press was not a fixture.
(Decls., Scott Schroeder; Lisa Schusto.)  Plaintiffs submitted no competent evidence to
controvert these conclusions. Instead, Plaintiffs only recited the California
Code of Regulations 122.5 definition of fixtures which includes a statement, in
part: “A printing press that weights several tons, is held in place by gravity,
and which because of its size cannot be removed from the building without
substantial damage to the building is regarded as physically annexed and is a
fixture.” The Court notes that Plaintiffs submitted no evidence with respect to
any damage to the building after the removal of the printing press, and that Plaintiffs
submitted no evidence from any individual with competency to testify as to
whether the printing press in question was or was not a fixture.
 
Second, Plaintiffs submitted no competent evidence to
demonstrate that moving party breached a duty of care to Plaintiffs. 
 
“[C]ontrary to respondent's assertion, respondent, a
commercial landowner, cannot totally abrogate its landowner responsibilities
merely by signing a lease. As the owner of property, a lessor out of possession
must exercise due care and must act reasonably toward the tenant as well as to
unknown third persons. At the time the lease is executed and upon renewal a
landlord has a right to reenter the property, has control of the property, and
must inspect the premises to make the premises reasonably safe from dangerous
conditions. Even if the commercial landlord executes a contract which requires
the tenant to maintain the property in a certain condition, the landlord is
obligated at the time the lease is executed to take reasonable precautions to
avoid unnecessary danger.” Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 771, 781 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
“However, the landlord's responsibility to inspect is
limited. Like a residential landlord, the duty to inspect charges the lessor ‘only
with those matters which would have been disclosed by a reasonable inspection.’
The burden of reducing or avoiding the risk and the likelihood of injury will
affect the determination of what constitutes a reasonable inspection. The
landlord's obligation is only to do what is reasonable under the circumstances.
The landlord need not take extraordinary measures or make unreasonable
expenditures of time and money in trying to discover hazards unless the
circumstances so warrant. When there is a potential serious danger, which is
foreseeable, a landlord should anticipate the danger and conduct a reasonable
inspection before passing possession to the tenant. However, if no such
inspection is warranted, the landlord has no such obligation.” Id. at
782 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
Plaintiffs fail to provide competent evidence to
establish that moving Defendant breached a duty to inspect the premises to
discover the allegedly defective printing press. Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant breached a duty of care because Defendant had constructive knowledge
of the dangerous condition. First, Plaintiffs contend that a prior 2000
incident was substantially similar in kind to the incident at issue in the
Complaint which would provide constructive notice of the defect on the property.
(The Court declines to analyze whether this first event was substantially
similar in kind because no evidence of notice was submitted as will be shown
below.) Second, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant had notice of this dangerous
condition from the imputed knowledge of its agent Daniel Tai. To establish
notice, Plaintiffs argue that Daniel Tai, the owner of Nationwide Plastic
Products, Inc. – the tenant on the premises and employer of Plaintiff - was a
managing agent of HHGC.
 
However, no competent evidence was submitted to
demonstrate that Daniel Tai was a managing agent of HHGC. Defendant does not
dispute that Daniel Tai’s wife Jian Chen was a managing agent of HHGC. However,
the evidence submitted by Plaintiffs to attempt to show that Daniel Tai was
also a managing agent of HHGC simply consists of his deposition testimony which
essentially amounts to his frustration at apparently having to undertake some
tasks which should have been completed by his wife. (Plaintiffs’ Ex. C.) However,
there is no evidence that HHGC and its owner Jia Ge had any knowledge that Tai
was completing these tasks. There is no evidence that HHGC and Ge had ever
authorized Tai to undertake any tasks for the benefit of HHGC, or that Ge even
had knowledge that Tai was the owner of the tenant at the time of the initial
real estate transaction wherein HHGC purchase the property. 
 
“Agency exists when a principal engages an agent to
act on the principal's behalf and subject to its control. The essential
elements necessary to establish an agency relationship are (1) manifestation of
consent by one person to another that the other shall act on his [or her]
behalf and subject to his [or her] control, and consent by the other so to act.
Although the existence of an agency relationship is typically a question of
fact, where the essential facts are not in dispute, the existence of agency becomes
a matter of law.” Church Mutual Ins. Co., S.I. v. GuideOne Specialty Mutual
Ins. Co. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 1042, 1061–1062 (internal citations and
quotations omitted). Here, there is no evidence that Jia Ge ever consented for
Danie Tai to act on her or HHGC’s behalf. 
 
There is no dispute that Jia Ge did not hire Daniel
Tai to be her agent or manager. Jia Ge only approached and retained Daniel
Tai’s spouse, Jian Chen for that role. The submitted evidence indicates that Jia
Ge had only limited interaction with Daniel Tai, and that interaction was
simply based on Daniel Tai’s role as a spouse of Chen, and not as an agent of
HHGC. There is no evidence that Ge ever had knowledge that Tai was purportedly speaking
or acting on behalf of his wife in an agency role, or that she had knowledge
that Tai had access to banking or other accounting information of HHGC. In
fact, once Ge found out that Tai had such access, she immediately took steps to
cut off access. Ge testified she only exchanged some pleasantries with Tai. The
evidence submitted by Plaintiffs only shows that Tai may have voluntarily
undertaken tasks which should have been accomplished by Chen which may have
inured to the benefit of HHGC. (Defendant’s Ex. G; Defendant’s Separate Statement
of Facts 13-17, 20, 26, 31-56.)
 
The evidence that may have established some type of
knowledge of a defective condition might have been shown by knowledge of Chen of
a prior defective condition. However, no evidence of this type was provided by
Plaintiffs. The index of Plaintiffs’ evidence indicates Plaintiffs submitted no
deposition testimony of Chen or declaration of Chen which could have
potentially corroborated any knowledge of a defective condition on her part,
such as from perhaps her own personal knowledge of the 2000 incident.
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons, there is no triable
issue of material fact as to the element of breach of a duty of care which is
essential to Plaintiffs’ causes of action against HHGC.
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
granted. 
 
 Defendant is ordered to give notice of this
ruling.