 Case Number:  23TRCV00764    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Wednesday, October 4, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
KTL
Logistics, LLC v. Colliers International Greater Los Angeles, Inc., et al.   
23TRCV00764
1.      Charles George’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro
Hac Vice  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Charles George’s Application to
Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 15, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Defendants - agents and brokers - represented
Plaintiff in a lease transaction with respect to commercial premises.
Defendants breached their duties by failing to secure a second extension on the
lease. 
 
Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant
part:
 
“(d) The application must state:
(1) The applicant's residence and office address;
(2) The courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing
in those courts;
(4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court;
(5) The title of each court and cause in which the
applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this
state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or
not it was granted; and
(6) The name, address, and telephone number of the
active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
(e) An applicant for permission to appear as counsel
pro hac vice under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the
State Bar of California with the copy of the application and the notice of
hearing that is served on the State Bar.”
 
The applicant has met all the requirements mandated in
Rule 9.40. The application to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice is therefore
granted. 
 
Charles George is admitted as counsel pro hac vice in
the pending matter.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 